ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79411	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work at the 13th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all! We will discuss - Final proposal of the Family Law, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 544; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Health and Social Policy and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Maya Sporish, Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79412	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. The proposed final proposal of the Family Law approached the reform of family legislation in order to systematically improve the protection of children and adults with disabilities in the material and procedural part of the provisions in order to meet the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia, to take into account the views and instructions of the European Court of Human Rights in particular regarding the Republic of Croatia and to implement modern international guidelines and recommendations, taking into account the opportunities available to the Republic of Croatia. The state of family and legal protection of children and adult family members under care in the Republic of Croatia at the moment is not satisfactory to note in the Social Care System Development Strategy in the Republic of Croatia for the period 2011-2016 adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2011. Therefore, the adoption of a new Family Law is the result of the need to address a number of problems in practice, especially with regard to the protection of children from manipulation during and after the divorce of parents, the increase in the number of European Court of Human Rights rulings against the Republic of Croatia in particular in the area of family and legal protection and protection of persons with disabilities and the fulfilment of international obligations of the Republic of Croatia. One of the goals of passing this law is, among other things, to adapt divorce institutes to the principle of agreeing and relocating responsibilities for regulating family relations with courts and social care centres to parents. Therefore, the final proposal of the Family Law introduces new forms of non-judicial assistance in resolving conflicting family relations by introducing compulsory consultation institutes and family mediation. Mandatory counselling is a procedure through which systematic professional assistance is provided to spouses before formal court proceedings are formally initiated in order to first define the needs of children and parents in the form of a parental care plan outside the court procedure, and then to verify and obtain the power of enforcement. The aim of the family mediation is to reach an agreement between parents, hence the joint parental care plan, with the help of specially educated family mediators outside the court procedure, which will help reduce the number of court proceedings and prevent further trauma of children. The final draft of the law stipulates that family mediation is voluntary until 1 January 2015, while since 1 January 2015 the first family mediation meeting before the divorce becomes mandatory since it is estimated that a sufficient number of family mediators in the welfare system will be educated. This law redefines the concept of custodial protection in terms of the extent of deprivement of business ability, leaving the existing institution of parental care after adulthood because from the point of view of contemporary understanding of the protection of human rights of adults with disabilities it is totally unacceptable to treat adults with disabilities as children, i.e. to give parents of adults with disabilities and parental care duties the same as to minor children. Furthermore, the obligation to partially deprive the business capacity as a rule is prescribed and only in areas where it is really necessary to protect the rights of the protégé, and the Institute of Full Deprivement of Business Capability is completely abandoned. The final draft of the law allows more than one person to be appointed as guardian and to be appointed to the Deputy Trustee so that it is possible to prevent a delay in the conduct of the custody tasks in the event of the current prevention of the custodian. It also introduces a legal obligation to respect before the expressed attitudes and desires of the protégé and enables each person to appoint the person he wishes to care for at the time of his or her existence. This introduces the Institute of Anticipated Commands in the Croatian legal system according to positive comparative practice. The final draft of the law is that when parents do not live together, so after the divorce or the termination of the extramarital community, the way parents take care together is determined by the agreement, that is, the plan for joint parental care. If parents have not reached such a plan, the court may take a decision on joint parental care in the process of divorce if parents have reached an agreement on joint custody or a decision to give parental care to only one parent, if the agreement was not and it is in the interest of the child to assign care to one of the parents, taking particular care of which parent was not willing to cooperate in drawing up a joint parental care plan and which the parent did not encourage the child’s contact with another parent. These provisions represent a strong mechanism against manipulative parents who are not primarily guided by the child’s interest in divorce. In the event that the mandatory consultation process does not allow spouses to agree on a joint parental care plan, the social care centre will instruct them to approach the first family mediation meeting. A spouse who does not approach the first family mediation meeting cannot file a divorce suit. As compared to the bill, provisions were deleted in the first reading, so-called provisions about 6 months as we called them the cooling that no spouse could press charges for divorce unless only one of them had joined the first family mediation meeting. Furthermore, the final draft of the law introduces a new institute, a standstill in parental care, whose role is to enable the achievement of part of parental care by a minor parent and a parent who is incapacitated in business within the limits of their abilities. It leaves the Institute of Business Capacity by decision of the court when a child over 16 years of age became a parent compared to the adoption institute. After discussing the Family Law Proposal, provisions on child accommodation were removed from the text of the final proposal for a potential adoptor before the adoption, so-called the child's test accommodation, since it is estimated that such accommodation would not always be in the best interest of the child. Instead of the trial accommodation, a social care centre obligation is introduced to prepare the child for adoption and enable the child’s contact with the potential adoptive child to assess whether the adoption will be in line with the child’s well-being. During contact with the child, the Social Care Centre will provide professional assistance and support and assess the future relationship of the child and potential adoptor. The maintenance section introduces the reciprocal obligation of a full-year-old grandchild to support grandparents if they are not able to do so themselves and if they supported him when necessary. Furthermore, the obligation to publish a child restraint table once a year with respect to the age of the child, the number of children and the constant monetary income means the payment classes of the abstention obligors in order to achieve a higher level of legal certainty, as well as to simplify the procedure of determining the level of restraint, its increases or reductions. Due to a number of practical issues that are frequently raised in the practice of temporary maintenance and the aggressive requirements for maintenance bonds, this institute is governed by a special regulation that will regulate the issues in question in a way that will enable uniformity in the exercise of rights and more effective re-payment of amounts paid by the party's abstention. The final proposal of the Family Law defines the provisions of the establishment of a centre for special custody as a public institution whose employees will be appointed special guardians to children and persons deprived of their professional capacity in court proceedings. International documents in this area oblige us to ensure that these categories of persons are represented in judicial proceedings by an independent body. This ensures adequate protection of children in court proceedings in accordance with international documents, i.e. ensuring their representation, independently of parents and social care centres, by experts particularly sensitive to working with children. The introduction of an institute of special guardians within an independent public institution prevents a potential conflict of interest on the part of the social care centre and ensures the highest possible level of child protection and of adults in the deprivement of business capacity. Finally, the final proposal of the Family Law that I present to you today has largely responded to the goals that we have conducted during its construction and therefore I call on you to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79413	Thank you. We have one replica. Vice President Zeljko Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79414	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Deputy Minister. So I have to admit, you've put out a whole series of reasons why this law was going to be created. Nevertheless, it is not entirely clear to me why the changes and changes to the existing law that were good, I dare say a significantly better solution to a whole series of things than is being addressed by this law. For example, it seems to us that protecting marriage and family, which is also a constitutional category, should be a fundamental thing in this law, and it is somehow lost. Because if the Government had indeed intended to change such a regulation to make positive steps in favour of marriage and family, and of course children, then the special protection of these two complex institutions and state care for them would be a priority principle that could be read from the entire text because the interest and welfare of the child is certainly best protected by the adoption of such a family law that protects and includes marriage and family. It is indisputable that just a stable and coherent marriage, i.e. a functioning family, are the best environment for child growth and development, and that is why the emphasis should have been placed when such changes were already made to marriage counselling before divorce, so as a preventive measure aimed at preserving and protecting marriage and family, and instead, a very detailed mandatory consultation is being considered, family mediation as measures to reduce the harmful effects of divorce, especially when children are involved. Thus, instead of actually trying to preserve the marriage community for the benefit of children, the whole emphasis is put on trying to repair the damage that will be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79415	The reply corresponds to Deputy Minister of Social Policy of the Youth, respected Maja Sporish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79416	This was not the primary goal of protecting the marriage of parents, so adults, the primary objective was to protect children. The point of mediation is, above all, not to keep people married so as to protect children, the purpose of mediation is that parents, or adults who have decided to break up their marriage community, come up with a parental care plan. Their marriage ends but their parenting stays forever.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79417	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the HNS Club, a respected Sonja König will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79418	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, dear deputy ministers, colleagues and colleagues. It has been more than a year since the proposal of the Family Law was presented to the public and since family law was discussed in one way or another in public. During this period, many additions and improvements were proposed, some of us also talked about here in our assembly during the discussion of the Family Law proposal in the first reading. Many proposals have been accepted and this way I express satisfaction on behalf of the HNS Club, which many of our proposals have been accepted, which many of our suggestions for improvement have been found in this final bill. We all want to, I believe, provide as many of our fellow citizens as possible for happiness. In some cases, it is easier, in some cases harder, to add only two words to the law and thus give an opportunity to one of our neighbors or to our own chance of happiness. That is the opportunity we have right now if we accept the proposal that the right to adopt should also be given to those living in an extramarital community. As regards adoption, we absolutely support the provisions of laws that speed up the process itself, support and commend the actions of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, which have recently made many good decisions and we believe that by making another one that we are proposing today will make many of our fellow citizens happy. In our country, the right to adopt at present, and the proposed law has marriage mates and persons who are not married. So, singles, but not those living in an out-of-marriage community. For such a provision, we do not see any good reason, especially because the extramarital community according to this same law is a stable life union of an unmarried woman and an unmarried man who lasts at least 3 years and in which a woman and a man together, as well as arise and all others share both good and evil. So let us give them a chance to adopt. It's a human and healthy rational decision for us. That decision will prove that we respect our constitution that freedom and equality are the highest values. This decision will prove that we respect the laws that we have made in this same place, because the Law on Gender Equality and the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination explicitly prohibit discrimination on the basis of marital or family status. If we take into account the views that adoption of a legal institute is established for the benefit of a child, it is illogical to allow adoption to a person who is not married and not to persons living in a stable and permanent extramarital community. Therefore, if the institute is possible for people living in marriage, but also for people, both men and women living alone, it is more than logical to allow it to be made possible for people living in an extramarital community because the child’s wellbeing is surrounded by those who will give him love and support. This is understood by many countries in our environment, as well as by many countries in our European family, which allow their citizens living in an extramarital community to adopt. Some of them are Portugal, Iceland, the Netherlands, Belgium, the United Kingdom and our neighbouring Slovenia. As for the extramarital communities, more and more of our fellow citizens live in this kind of community. Such a trend is both globally and throughout the European Union. In our country, according to the last census compared to 2001, the number of extramarital communities increased by 52% and increased every day. So let's give them a chance to become foster parents, and let's not put them in a position to deny or hide their love or their status. So now is the chance to bring the Family Law into line with the Constitution, common sense and our humanity. Now is the opportunity to extend the right to adopt and to our fellow citizens living in extramarital communities and we at the HNS club believe that we will all take advantage of this opportunity together. When we talk about action, about possibilities, about choice rights, about free decision-making, we must also talk about the responsibilities that our decisions and procedures bear with them. In this context, we also consider the recommendations of the Ombudsman for children of recent years, namely the recognition of the paternity of minor parents. We believe that small changes in these provisions can result in further improvements. Data from the Croatian Institute of Public Health show that 5,237 teenage girls have become pregnant in Croatia in the last 3 years. The same source also shows that only 40% of young couples use any form of contraception, so the data from a 150-year-old teen pregnancy per year is not surprising but worrying. And what concerns us is that the bill provides that such underage parents, and able to understand the meaning of the paternity statement, also require the approval of their parents to acknowledge the paternity. And many cases show that parents of underage parents are not ready to do so, except in really rare situations, which in practice can make it impossible to identify a child’s paternity, i.e. to extend it to the adulthood of a child’s parents. This can also take time and refer to a large part of the children born because, as I said, data from the Institute of Public Health show that more than 1500 minor pregnancies are recorded in Croatia annually. And that is why we agree with those who say that in the process of recognising the paternity of those parents who are the underage statement of their parents' approval should not be decisive. It's a note regarding the recognition of paternity, and we have one about divorce. The existence of a marriage under the Family Law requires that the bride and groom of a different sex person, that they have declared their consent to a marriage and delivered appropriate documents, i.e. certificates. So, as far as marriage regulations are concerned, it takes relatively little conditions, as it should actually be. However, if such individuals decide to part with them during a period of their lives, if these same persons wish to divorce, the court and the state have far less faith in the testimony of their mates because the court will divorce marriage if both spouses propose divorce on the basis of an agreement, if it has been a year since the end of the marriage, or if the court finds that marital relations are severe and permanent. That part seems somewhat unwarranted to us because the reason for divorce should not be to establish the court that marital relations are difficult and permanently disrupted rather than the fact that such a claim stands for one side. If a man or woman who wants a divorce says that relationships are severe and permanent and that marriage no longer makes sense, then the court should, in our opinion and divorce. Since the bill also states that the court determines whether relations are severely and permanently disrupted, then it cannot, and then it can actually happen that one of the spouses is seeking a divorce for this reason, and that the court finds otherwise and does not allow divorce and thus leaves people in a difficult situation. That's what we believe no one wants. In our view, therefore, for divorce on the other terms of the law, it is necessary to amend the provision in such a way that the court divorces the marriage and if one of the spouses claims that marital relations are severe and permanent. We think that these supplements can further improve the bill that the HNS club will support. The law makes many newspapers of which we particularly well consider provisions concerning business competences because, as far as this bill is concerned, a huge step has been made in improving the rights of persons with disabilities and all provisions are now in line with the first reading proposal in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the UN. It is commendable in the bill of law and the introduction of an antiquated statement that is in our field a brand new institute, and in this we are the first of all countries in our environment, which is good because we do not always have to follow as it happens and as we often do, the experiences of others are already creating their own and moving social boundaries and being braver and more courageous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79419	Thank you. We have one replica, the Honorable Vice President of the House, Zeljko Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79420	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague König, starting from the end, I don't think it's always good to rush some solutions and then try and make mistakes to find that something's wrong. Unfortunately, for the past two years, we have often witnessed such situations. However, you mentioned the problem of underage pregnancy, which is a serious problem, although I disagree with that solution that you have proposed, however, it has led me to say something about an article of the law that seems very problematic and worrying. Namely, the right of the child to be free and only after 14 years of consent to medical procedures is introduced. Leaving aside, in fact, all the possibilities that open up to this in the health system and the care of the parents of the child, does that mean that this... law that regulates abortion? Because this law, however very liberally, allows a minor over 16 years of age to request abortion, without any request to pass counselling, etc. In this case, if that's how it's interpreted, we're taking that line down to 14 years. If that's the right way, I'll leave it to everyone to ask themselves. Also, it seems to me that there is something you mentioned, which is a question of deprivement of business ability, something that is not resolved by this law, because in Croatia about 18 thousand people who are in need of a relaunch of the procedure and the finding that, in part, they are deprived of business ability, and how this is now estimated to cost only 46 million kuna when it is known how much the costs of art, about 5,000 kuna per case, should be added to the costs of court proceedings, the costs of custodians, etc., etc., it seems to me that it is once again one quote in a law that will suddenly be found to cost incomparably more and that it lasts incomparably more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79421	The replica matches the esteemed Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79422	Dear colleague Reiner, precisely for all these reasons that you have stated, juvenile pregnancy and responsibility for our younger citizens, but also for all others, should be introduced to our schools as soon as possible. Thank you very much. I believe you'll support it for the very reasons you mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79423	On behalf of the SDP club, the respected Peja Grbin will perform.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79424	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Deputy Minister, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So first of all, it should be said that we came here at the final stage of a very long procedure, which showed how they should be prepared first and then passed laws in the Croatian Parliament. So here we have conducted a whole series of discussions, consultation and consultation by working groups, consultation with the professional and interested public, one extensive first reading, discussion between the first and second readings, and before us is a bill that will significantly improve the area of family law in the Republic of Croatia. Since this is about second reading, I am not going to repeat everything we said and what we supported when we spoke in the first reading of this law, I will just point out that it is really a qualitative step and a law that should certainly be supported. What I will concentrate on in this presentation are certain differences between the first and second readings of the law as well as things which, unfortunately, are still not our place in the legal text, and we of the Club of Representatives of the SDP think that there should certainly be room for such changes and such steps. First of all, I will point out that we support those changes that relate to the conclusion of marriages for persons partially deprived of their ability and to the recognition of paternity by those persons. The law here has made one step in respecting the rights of persons partially deprived of business skills, but it has again provided protection for both those persons and children whose fatherhood is recognised in a way that provides for a certain protective role of the Centre for Social Care and we believe that no one's rights are at risk here by increasing or further protecting persons with mental disorders. What I am particularly pleased with and what I would like to set as an extremely good example of how laws should be passed in Croatia is part of the law or amendments between the first and second readings of this law, which are in line with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights with regard to the ban on approaching a child by certain persons or by clarifying the definition of what such approximation means. First of all, it is about the additional protection of the child's interest which needs to be welcomed in itself, but it is about the fact that our ministry or that our authorities have shown that not only do they know but also that they are reading relevant judicial decisions of European courts and that in time they are proposing and installing them into our legislation as often as possible because we are no longer bound by the practice of the European Court of Human Rights but also by the European Court of Justice, which will have to be the case more and more frequently. Furthermore, we also see particularly important provisions that both the guardian and the spouse of parents who make a declaration of adoption cannot withdraw such a statement. In fact, we think that this adds to the importance, but it also highlights the consequences that such a statement once a day entails. We also welcome the harmonisation of the implementing provisions in order to achieve the child's search for abstention with the Executive Act because we believe that this will, above all, avoid the application of such a provision in practice but will also avoid possible different interpretations which would result in a distortion of the child's interest, which is already in an extremely difficult situation when it must seek judicial restraint from its parents. I will stand here with what is in the law with another thanks to the promoter for those remarks that were accepted between the two readings, and I will concentrate on what should be done a little bit further in that law. In this context, the SDP Representatives' Club will propose certain amendments. First of all, one amendment concerns the issue of maternal presummation. We suggest that the provision in the law be changed in a way that reads, the mother is considered a woman who gave birth to a child. This little change will seem unnecessary to someone, but it's actually very important. Important for the reason that the law itself in many places has already arranged or allowed motherhood to be challenged, for example in some specific cases and the possibility that the mother might not be, that the law does not consider the woman who gave birth to the child. In such a situation where such provisions already exist in the law, we believe that the regulation of maternal presummation is wrong and not in accordance with the very text of the law, and we believe that the provisions concerning maternal presummation should be brought into line with other provisions of that law. The next provision that we propose is to change the question of the presummation of marital fatherhood, or the situation where the mother’s husband is considered the father of a child by law. We are aware that life carries such a situation that the mother’s husband will not be the father of a child and the law knows such a situation and the law for many years makes it possible for such a situation to change in court. Since such court proceedings bear not only the costs but also the trauma for family members, we feel that in those situations where there is full consent between the father of the child, the mother of the child and the mother's husband, there is a need to avoid the conduct of long, expensive and painful procedures and to enable those persons to, with common consent and with the care of the child in front of the competent during the fortification of who are the real parents of the child. Furthermore, we feel that those provisions regarding the maintenance of an outmarried child or the parent of an outmarried child need to be changed. The same thing is done here by harmonising with life situations, that other than a child born in marriage, a child born in an extramarital community, we increasingly have a situation where a child was born and out of any such community, and such a situation has to be regulated. We propose to amend a specific article of the law in a way that determines that both parents of a child are in the care and care of another parent if they do not have the means to live. It is our desire to extend our obligation to maintain and to those situations where the mother and father of the child are not in any community and during pregnancy the mother does not have the means to live. We believe that a child’s father must also support his mother during pregnancy. And the last amendment we're proposing is something we're going to propose, which is something that she was already talking about, and a distinguished colleague, König, when she spoke on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club. And it's about amending the adoption provision. We feel that adoption except for marriage mates should be passed on to extramarital mates. The colleague has already talked about one thing to say to the interesting situation that we allow singles, by the proposed text of the law, to make it possible for marriage mates who, for example, can only be married for a few months, a year, a short period of time, and that the community that by law must last for at least three years and, by such duration, have already proved and shown our perseverance we do not allow. We at the SDP Representatives' Club believe that this should be extended to such a situation and that this is not about some kind of world view, but this is about a clean protection of the child's interest. Because imagine a situation where a single single mate is a single parent, his single mate cannot adopt such a child and, for example, with a single statement that such an extramarital mate can adopt any other child. We believe that such situations should be removed and the adoption of this amendment improved the situation envisaged for adoption, with of course the emphasis that is much better resolved in this law than it has been so far. And lastly, I will stress another wish to the ministry to consider issues of full equality between the marriage, the extramarital community in their respective rights and obligations. We believe, as we have already noted, that the extramarital community has its own conditions, and that is primarily one sustainability, one clearly expressed desire for extramarital comrades to live together, to live together, to make incomes and all other things that a child in life so strong that they must be granted certain rights which are not recognised by this bill. With this bill, they are fully equated in their personal and property relations with marriage communities. Such a situation has already existed in the law. Through certain amendments to other laws, extramarital comrades are increasingly expanding the circle of rights they have recognised. It is our wish and a proposal to the ministry to reconsider the situation now in one place, and this would be the Family Law to equalise the rights and the two communities so that we do not have to work through amendments to specific laws, tax laws first and then the laws concerning pension, health, etc., insurance. And to make one step in equating their rights and yet, of course, without harm to any other community and without endangering marriage and its importance to society. In any case, the Club of Representatives of the SDP will support this law, with the wish of the Proposer to accept our amendments and make this one step further that we have proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79425	Thank you. And this replica is where the vice president of the House of Zeljko Reiner gets up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79426	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, dear colleague Grbin, you mentioned the verdict of the European Court of Human Rights and the European Union. So, since you mentioned this to me, let's just say, it's not clear why the system is burdened by the introduction of another procedure that replaces parents' consent to adoption when assumptions are very similar to the lack of parental care rights. Namely, the proposer, the government, is called upon by the European Court of Human Rights for the alleged parent who is deprived of his or her business ability to give consent to adoption which is not true, but is only required to be informed of the intention of adoption. At the same time, the request set out in Article 16 of the Revised adoption Convention, which our country intends to sign and ratify, has not been incorporated so that adoption proceedings cannot be initiated if the procedure for determining motherhood or paternity is under way. Moreover, when already mentioned by the European Union and EU legislation, it is therefore completely unclear why only two sources of secondary legislation of the European Union are being called for. So Directive 2011/93, which is indeed a source of law but which has already been incorporated into the Criminal Law and Directive 2004/83, unlike the aforementioned Directive, has not been a source of law at all since 21 December of last year because it has been replaced by Directive 2011/95 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011. In fact, it is not clear why only one document of secondary Union legislation is being called for in the area of asylum and all others are being ignored, in particular, the development of the other so-called so-called. Directives and relative acts in other areas. The more the document no longer contains instructions on any of the two mentioned documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79427	The replica matches the esteemed Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79428	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And even though there was an extremely little connection between what I was saying and the replica Mr. Rainer put out for a few things, I have to refer to myself. I have been referring to the decision of the European Court of Human Rights. The European Court of Human Rights is not the European Union body but the Council of Europe, so that is the difference. As regards the reference to the provisions of the Directive, etc., the European Union. The issue of family law is the overarching competence of the Member States of the European Union. If the issue of governing family law had been uniformly settled in the field of the European Union, we would not have such differences as we now have between the United Kingdom and Poland, the Netherlands and Greece, etc. We are trying to find our way through this law and it is our duty and it is our task. Yes, we are taking examples from the European Union, but not uncritically, but because we believe that certain examples implemented in Croatia will lead to the protection of the interests of our citizens, especially the protection of the interests of children. And I think through this text of the law, we're very successful. And as for a person with mental disorders a few years ago, it was still worth the rule that a person with mental disorders was deprived of his or her ability to do business has no right whatsoever. Let's lock her in the yellow house, forget about her, and that's it. Thank God that's changed. We also today appreciate that persons deprived of their business skills, especially persons partially deprived of their business skills, have certain rights and have the right to make statements about their status if they are capable and we have to ask them. If they are not able to do so, the competent authorities shall determine. And if it costs Excuse me. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79429	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the Vice-President of the House, the Honorable Željko Reiner, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79430	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, unlike my predecessors, I'm not going to break this law with praises. Namely, the final proposal of the Family Law is very extensive, it has 563 articles. Unfortunately, however, instead of improving, it introduces a mess into the Croatian legal system. In some respects, his matter is aloof while in others it is inexplicably general and unclear. It is literally filled with a series of unnecessary provisions that do not belong in it at all. For example, it on the obligation of judges to educate and unnecessary principles. It introduces new concepts that do not explain, which will lead to legal uncertainty and the possibility of different interpretations in practice, again, for example the concept of strictly personal status in Article 26 even in several places or other close persons referred to in Article 84. He's methodologically inconsistencies, he's nomotechnically poor, and he's simply not grown up to the present need for real regulation of family relations. This was finally said by many legal experts from the most respected university professors to famous lawyers. Nevertheless, because of the desire to be constructive, the HDZ Club suggests that after today's debate, the law is necessarily directed to the third reading in order to be significantly reworked and tried to improve. And if our proposal, as usual, refuses again because of the desire to be constructive, we will try to at least those greatest failures to correct many amendments. But let's just start with some arguments that make us think that this law that regulates such important matter is simply inadmissible, and we are confident that it will bring much more damage than benefits. If we start from the last article in 563, it determines that the whole law enters into force on the eighth day of publication in the National Journal, and then that same article determines that a total of 55 articles, i.e. 99% of all articles in the law shall enter into force on 1 July of this year, and then for the third time in the same article, several articles, i.e. shall enter into force only on 1 January 2015. And now who can be reasonable can believe that an appropriate period of adaptation to the new law of 563 articles is only 8 days or at best for 555 of its articles only a month. The radical change of family rules in order to be applicable must be unequivocal, clear, well-known and accepted in the social environment. Such a change that only partially embellishes some German and Austrian solutions, but still not consistent, while not taking into account the fact that we do not have a number of services of family courts and relevant experts who have long existed in these countries, and it all wants to apply for one or four weeks in advance in advance. Can anyone imagine that judges will be able to make good use of an extremely extensive regulation that makes a different concept of family legislation so quickly? In order to implement such a comprehensive law, it is necessary to carry out appropriate long-term education, not to mention that it is unacceptable that family policy is implemented only by amending the Family Law, while at the same time abolishing family centres, is not invested in adequate services in courts, and the government's proposal also states that it is necessary to set up family departments. If, therefore, this law were to be adopted this Friday throughout June in Croatia, no legal provision on marriage, rights and obligations of parents and children or abstention will be in force, as the power of Article 562 of this law will cease to apply to the Family Law of 2003, and the provisions of Article 1 and 543 of the new law will enter into force only on 1 July of this year. Will any of the ruling be concerned or will you all calmly raise your hands for this law just because they said from the government that you must do so. It is very worrying that in this law, the bill no longer contains provisions on the parenting guidelines that existed in the 1998 Family Law, but also in the now applicable law of 2003, which I quote parents have the duty and the right to raise a child as a free, human, patriotic, moral, hardworking, sensitive and responsible person in order to be prepared for a coherent family and social life with a positive attitude towards nature. Which one of these qualifications bothered the proposing, so they're all out. Is she free, human or perhaps patriotic or moral? Do you mind respecting gender equality? We believe that it is regrettable and wrong that the new law is aimed only at resolving the legal consequences of divorce, or the end of the family community, and is apparently completely giving up trying to keep the family together. Indeed, under the goals of mandatory counselling before the divorce in Article 325, there is no indication that he will try to help his or her mates to maintain a family union. In the time of the severe economic crisis in Croatia, which unfortunately encourages the disintegration of family communities. The state that has most often brought them into this state therefore leaves the citizens to themselves. This law has failed the constitutional guarantee that the family is under special protection, especially the protection of the state. The bill violates the constitutional definition of marriage as the life union of women and men. In fact, the bill states: “The existence of marriage requires the bride and groom to be of different sex, ” Article 23. However, there is no gender of thought, natural, biological, or so on. "changed" which can be proven differently from the actual genetic sex in legal traffic. Gender diversity is a presumption not only of marriage but also of the existence of marriage, but also of the Government's proposal after the change of the State Queens Act in 2013 allowed so-called "change in sex on demand" here doesn't even regulate what happens to a marriage where one of the spouses has changed sex. Does this marriage cease by law, such as death, or marriage mates, or cannot ask for a gender change while they are married? That's not settled. Chapter - Presumptions for the conclusion of marriage in section – Presumptions for the validity of marriage above Article 28 states the title "The absence of another marriage" under the heading of Article 28 states: "The marriage cannot be made by a person who is married or in a registered life partnership." This directly violates the constitutional provision that marriage is a person of different sex. Namely, the registered life partnership as an institute at this time does not exist at all in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia but there is a same-sex community, and so far only in the first reading of another controversial law proposed by the Institute of the Registered Life Partnership is intended exclusively for persons of the same sex. It is therefore totally unacceptable for this institute to be cited as the absence of another marriage. The same - sex community is not a marriage, so the existence or absence of a life partnership cannot be an obstacle to marriage. Why is this law abolishing joint concern as a rule? Why is the father’s right to decide important questions for a child in some cases limited? The concept of parental care offered by this marriage is backwards because it assumes that a parent’s agreement is always in the best interests of the child. It is contrary to the Convention on the Rights of the Child that the achievement of joint care is conditional upon the agreement of parents. What was the cause of such a solution? And I ask the question, is there any European state that has solved this issue so that it can be a model for this law? This law stipulates that more people, based on the court’s decision, can accomplish along with their parents and instead of parents’ parental care. However, parental care is one’s own parents, it stems from the very nature of parenting, and everyone else can only take care of a child rather than parenting. How is parental care possible, for example, by a guardian, an employee of the Social Care Centre, when he only compensates for parental care? This provision is clearly based on the proposal of the future controversial Life Partnership Act, which is intended to enable the court, although the child has both known parents, whether or not they realize parental care or decide that parental care will also be achieved by a partner or a partner. Thus, these two laws could have three people who would be authorized to have parental care, which could lead to legal unrest. Who will by what rules and how will they represent the child? How will they inform each other, obtain written consents for decisions on important personal matters of the child and the like? How is it that in Article 100, the essential personal rights of a child required by the agreement of parents who are authorised to represent a child are listed only by some and by what criteria are they chosen? What, for example, is the choice or change of the religious identity of a child who, according to the Government’s proposal, is as important as changing the place of residence of a child as an important personal right of a child, and for example, trusting a child in a third party, consenting parents to a serious medical procedure, or stopping schooling or employment is not a child’s essential personal right? Why is it as an absolute right for a child over the age of 14 to change his faith when it is true to a mature adult? What are the opportunities for parents to protect their child from his potential risk choices as part of their parental responsibilities? In what relationship is it with the right of parents to have a child’s relationship? If a child who is 14 years of age is able to decide on his choice or change of religious identity on his own, can he decide on his choice or change of ethnicity or ethnicity? Can a 14-year-old man make his own decision on free parenting? Can she choose her own residence when she's 14? Can a 14 - year - old decide that he will no longer attend compulsory schooling? Is that what we all support? The provision of Article 88 provides that a child over the age of 14 may give consent for medical surgery and only the question has not been resolved what if a child for any reason for possible fear deny consent to a medical procedure? Parents are authorised to consent to surgery only if it is associated with serious medical risks, which means that a series of cases are not covered, and interpretation which means a more serious medical risk can be very free. Is it the Government's proposal that made it on purpose or is it simply another failure? Otherwise, with the child’s age, the government as a pronounist has made a huge mess. For example, different ages are prescribed for adoption institutes for equally important things. In Article 198(1), point (a) is replaced by the following: 10 years, and in Article 215 at once 14 years. The provision that it is unlimited for parents to make daily decisions on their own in connection with the child during the time of the child’s stay with that parent referred to in Article 110(1) may directly endanger the right of a child who, for example, is enrolled in a free activity that coincides with the time he spends with that parent, and the parent, for example, does not want to take the child to that. It is also possible to imagine that a parent at a time intended for dating does not care about the child at all but leaves it with third parties or lets it play for, say, hours, game games, etc. These are just some of the many misunderstandings and unfortunate solutions to which this law runs, so once again we strongly suggest that it be directed to a third reading and tried thoroughly to fix because in this form in which it is as a final solution I propose it is simply wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79431	There are numerous replicas to this exhibit. The first registered respected Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79432	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Representative, you have asked a number of questions that you believe this law does not provide an answer. It's hard for me to say, but it looks like someone else put it together for you and you obviously didn't read this law. So you're asking a question and you're giving a rough assessment, a rough assessment that this law and a pronoun don't care to keep the family together, to concentrate on other things, trust and child care, not to keep the family together. So here's a provision for article 379 that says it's not true and I don't have time to correct everything, because all the answers you've asked are in the law itself. So now I'm gonna tell you that it hasn't given up trying to keep up. This Regulation shall enter "If the prosecutor who initiated the litigation for divorce in which there are joint underage children does not prove that he has initiated the mandatory consultation procedure in accordance with the provisions of Article 54 and 57 of this law, the court will dismiss the suit for divorce." And Article 54 and 57 specifically state that marriage mates are obliged where underage children exist to address the counseling facility and to undergo such a procedure. Therefore, all that you, your speech, is full of grades that do not have a foothold in the law itself, but is just the answer to that. The only thing here is to be honest, in case you ask the question, what if marriage changes, if sex changes what happens to that marriage? Well, of course, if someone changed sex according to the law that he was now more, if he was a man, now he's a woman and he can make a marriage to another sex person. However, you're right here, I think there should be a supplement here because such a person who concluded marriage has the right and during marriage to decide on his personal conditions without the consent of another spouse, But then it makes marriage questionable, so if there is a gender change during the duration of the marriage, then the legislator should give an answer to that. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79433	The replica corresponds to the esteemed vice president of the home of Željko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79434	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Your Honor, first of all, I'm a little surprised by the tone you started with because he's not very common in communication. I've never told you, nor will I tell you to speak here without reading anything, etc. But you mentioned two things in the argument, I don't know what thirty of them I mentioned, one of which you agreed with, and the first one as a confirmation of your thesis mentioned two articles. These two articles mention the need to do something before a court marriage is divorced, and on the other hand it is elaborated in detail through a series of articles that will take place after the divorce. And that is exactly what I was talking about, precisely that the spirit of the law is not aimed at preserving the family as the best environment for the child, because the proposing representative also said that the goal is to primarily protect the child rather than protect the marriage. And that's exactly what I'm saying, trying to protect marriage would be very important as the best environment for raising a child. But that's what you admit not being here in this law was made and that's what I'm saying is not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79435	Second replica of the esteemed Vesna Scare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79436	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Reiner, you've really pointed out what needs to be fixed and, of course, what's good. This is an extremely important law, I want to highlight and address an extremely sensitive area of family relations. It's a large law, it's almost 200 articles bigger than the existing one, and when we look at how it applies and should be applied as early as 1.7 this year, then the question of what are we going to achieve with that application? Many entities that need to implement this law would, if we adopt it on Friday, which is simply impossible to implement. Namely, education is not implemented, when you look at the Justice Academy program on the list is not education in the field of new Family Law. So if judges start applying the law of 1.7, what will they apply? Are they prepared for the application of this law? Of course they don't. And if the intensity was to reduce the damage the Republic of Croatia pays in front of the European Court of Human Rights and because of the poor application of the law and because of the mistakes made in the proceedings, then we are practically opening up a new stage of even greater damages, even greater claims and even greater compensations that the Republic of Croatia will pay. I am absolutely for this law to pass more debates and to go into third reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79437	The replica corresponds to the esteemed vice president of the home of Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79438	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I am pleased that you have agreed with these arguments that no one can agree with, indeed, they are indisputable because it is clear that the serious application of such a complex law and such an important law within a week or four weeks is simply impossible. However, when you mentioned the European Court of Human Rights, it is true that, at least in the context of the first reading, it was stated that one of the objectives of this law was to reduce the reasons for the conduct of proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights. Now, I am asking immediately how the Croatian courts will respect the current situation, so the very strict requirements of the legislation that the first hearing in personal matters must be held within 15 days of the date of the initiation of the proceedings, and that secondary courts can make and forward a decision within 30 days of the date of appeal. These are entirely unrealistic deadlines and the reason for a number of new lost disputes before the European Court of Human Rights, and we all need to be aware of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79439	Thank you. Next replica, the esteemed Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79440	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Reiner, a few things from your debate have moved me to actually replicate. You spoke of role models, or you questioned certain provisions in the law that set the example for us to introduce certain provisions. I hold that with this law, but also with all the other laws that we bring to us the main role model, if we say so, should be the practice, that is, the practice of implementing the law that is now in force, which it indicates, which problems, to which disadvantages, the shortcomings in the current law, and then it should begin to norm accordingly. You've been talking about overnodging, or undermining, you think that the law in certain parts is insane. So I can say that we've actually debated several legislative proposals about this dilemma of perseverance or malpractice, but if we agree that family law is extremely important to the law, that family is extremely important to us as a legislator, then I don't think there's any persuasion. Then in this House we are discussing all aspects of the Family Law, and we are not leaving it to some subsequent acts that will regulate. Therefore, this Family Law should be extensive to me. You mentioned family centers again, so they're shutting down, but they continue to operate within the social care center, it's already been pointed out many times. And in the end, you're saying, it means that the law comes into force on 1st patience, a certain part, and a certain part only a year. Well, it is precisely, in order to ensure time for adjustment, for the education of mediators, that mediation is accepted legal practice and that is why certain parts of the law are delayed. So if you're talking about insufficient time to adjust, then I don't see why you're criticizing exactly... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79441	The replica matches the vice president of the House, Željko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79442	Thank you very much. Well, here's what you mentioned two things that I think are very important. The question of different norms, I've said some are insane, and some are substantiated things, and some are the center for special custody. So on that example, we actually see what this is about. So a special custody centre is being introduced, along with organisational provisions, even though it is not stated at all at the beginning of the law that is governed by this law, as it is irrelevant because it was inserted between the first and second readings, and I guess that should have been done a little bit. However, what is the logic of temporary maintenance being drawn up as a special regulation even though it is directly related to family provisions and a whole series of organisational provisions of the Centre for Special Care, for example provisions in the Management Board of the Centre for Special Care, the Government considers it necessary to make an integral part of the Family Law. On the one hand, therefore, it is widely discussed that a special custody centre will be organised, and on the other hand, temporary restraint is suddenly withdrawn and says that this will be resolved by one special regulation although it is necessarily related to it. So it's the best example of what I've ever talked about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79443	Thank you. A new replica, respected Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79444	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Reiner, I would only agree with you in one part, which is when you spoke about the informative consent of a 14-year-old child, even if you had said so more... but I would agree on the question of the capacity of responsibility of a 14-year-old child when we talk about an informative consent. However, you mentioned the mess, you mentioned various interpretations in practice, when we mention practice then the social workers themselves who implement and such a law, say it was not clear. If there had been, and of course who had suffered, they'd suffered children, they'd suffered weaker. When you look at the report every year, the Ombudsman’s report for children is clear that they need to change, and this law makes such changes. The changes in the divorce system you said that the gravity, we put, that is, this law tends to put the gravity on the child and that is correct. However, this law does not diminish that importance when you look at marriage counselling, etc. Moreover, when we talk about measures to protect children, this law right now gives a leprosy of such measures. And we need to know that these measures have not touched for 30 years even though both methods and social work and evaluation and protection of human rights have improved significantly since then. Therefore, this law gives clear rules, deadlines, both in terms of child protection, and in relation to social work with parents, and certainly seeks to keep the child in the biological family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79445	The replica matches the esteemed vice president of the House, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79446	Thank you very much. Well, of course we agree on something, something we don't. I remain at my verdict that unfortunately a lot, which even existed in the previous law regarding the protection of the family as the best environment for child rearing, was lost in this new proposal. However, you mentioned or previously mentioned the problem of the special custody centre. So, first of all, contrary to election promises of decentralisation, the establishment of the centre is just another contribution to centralisation of the state because the centre is established for the entire Republic of Croatia and is intended to represent, therefore, children and adults in court proceedings. He will, of course, be another beneficiary of the state budget, but the question is, of course, how much will it cost because it does not say how much it will cost, and the problem is, of course, an assessment of what he will, how much work he will have to do. Therefore, the assessment of only the proponents, the Government, that about a third of the divorce is conflicting, which means about 1500 procedures a year involving children and then all the proceedings that the court decides, with which the child is going to live, all the proceedings to challenge motherhood and paternity, all the judicial proceedings in which the measures to protect the child's well-being, etc. And now, we have a situation where a new centralised organisation for all of Croatia is being established on one side, how will it handle it well, for example, in parts of Croatia 400, 500 km away? Will these special guardians really be available to children? Why one branch of law therefore goes to special representatives of children in criminal proceedings and should be specialised and educated lawyers. And in the second branch of law, a centre for special custody is established and builds a completely different concept of child representation. And these are the controversial things from this law that I refer to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79447	The next replica, respected Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79448	Thank you. Your colleague Reiner was well pointed out in article 28, which is called the absence of another marriage, where he says that marriage cannot be made by a person who is married or in a registered life partnership. So marriage as a community of women and men is an obstacle to its conclusion of the union of two people of the same sex. So it's practically a contradiction... How can a union of two persons of the same sex be an obstacle to marriage and yet in the name of that article call it the absence of another marriage. So I think that, among other things, this article practically violates the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I do not see at all how the proposer of this law can defend such an article and such an engaged provision of the law, which is only one of a series of provisions. And the whole thing is a real question, the question of this law, what does it bring? The few changes that were not bad and which would improve court practice could be amended and the amendments to the law. And maybe it's one of the strangest arguments that the bill is old, it's ten years old. So the law in the Republic of Croatia if it lasted 10 years he's old, he needs to be changed. It is obvious that every five years all the laws in Croatia need to be changed, and then we will have better legislation and better legal certainty. Of course, then we're going towards what everyone's more or less against, which is so-called. legal uncertainty and legal uncertainty which is only certain in the legal environment in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79449	The reply to the replica is the esteemed Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79450	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I'm glad you agree with me because I think that's logical. It cannot be called first on a law that does not exist in law at all to justify something else. Secondly, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia cannot be violated. And finally this third thing you mentioned when we talk about how we should approach family problems legally, then it's exactly what several advocates of this law said there were objections. There have been objections to the existing law, which is 10 years old, but instead of fixing things in that law and instead of making amendments to that law make it a better law, easier to implement, correct what was seen in the implementation in 10 years, we now have a whole new law that will start to apply in a week or 4 weeks. So what absurd thing? On the one hand, some problems could not be solved in 10 years of application of the existing law, and now it will probably all be settled with this fantastic law within a week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79451	New replica, respected Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79452	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Reiner, here you have just answered Mr. Djurovic's point of particular emphasis, but it is obvious that every minister must leave a trail, which is the easiest thing to do when the regulations are produced. However, it was not necessary to produce here in this very important regulation in the context of the Family Law proposal and as if this law meant only to be said to you in agreement, and the rest of the country does not really care, because in your presentation you also said and mentioned Article 563, so it is not burning because it will bring additional confusion to the judiciary itself, which says that this law enters into force on the 8th day of publication in the National Journal, except Articles 1 to 543 of that Article from 551 to 562. which enter into force on 1 July 2014, and Article 54 paragraph 3 to 5, Article 325(6), Article 320(3), Article 379 of the Law, which enters into force on 1 January 2015. This new family regulation is aimed at resolving the legal consequences of divorce, or the termination of the family community itself, and is giving up trying to keep the family together. In view of the difficult economic situation in the country, it is certain that the disintegration of family communities is fostered, and in this case the state has left the citizens to themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79453	The reply to the replica is the esteemed Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79454	Thank you very much. You pointed out what I said on several occasions as a serious lack of this law. However, again, I would like to emphasise the absurdity of the fact that the newly created, newly introduced special custody centre which was not in the first reading proposal should now, by means of the full law, come into force precisely those articles that are governed by the Centre for Special Care. And now, how is this centre going to start who says overnight to function and perform their incredibly important function in the entire Republic of Croatia in such a short time with an organisational one, not to say financially completely unsolved state? It's something that's obviously not going to work right now. And they're certainly never good solutions that we can see in advance that they won't be able to function, but they're still pushing themselves for some reason into the law, and then, by the political will of the rulings, they vote, and then we have to change them very quickly in 2.3 months, and that's exactly what they're talking about right now, this legal uncertainty that, in this case, is very serious, even more serious, in some other situation because it's about family as a nucleus of society and children as our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79455	At the presentation on behalf of the HDZ club, the replica stands up and respects the Sunana Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79456	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. For example, fellow Reiner, some of your replicators called for a profession that allegedly says that this will improve something in their work, just the other way around. From the profession come the remarks, there was a marathon public debate not only from the profession concerning social workers but also from the same serious legal experts who expressed doubts about the application of this law. In fact, it's a large reading with 563 articles and it's actually been passed 10 years ago that the law so far just needed to be improved and the means for which we don't even know where to spend it might be more useful, which is for better application of the law that has been in place so far. It is mentioned here all the time and the Centre for Special Care, therefore, and the illogical nature of it, about the start of law enforcement. So those who have to apply it and speak first of all here about legal expertise they'll have to do it as soon as possible. The same mistake was made when the law was passed 10 years ago, there were remarks as to why the law must immediately apply. On the other hand, I'm going back to the Special Care Centres, especially the mediators who are just about to start training, who should just start working and wondering about the profession, welfare centres, so who's going to do it. Because I'm going to remind you that we've just abolished the family centers, at the same time as we're saying that we should have some new, like mediators, not investing in proper court service. Therefore, an appropriate education is required for such a comprehensive law and the ministry has conducted the training of social care centre staff before the vote of this regulation, which is not a common practice. In any case, what will remain remembered is that one law has been produced, one in the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, which will only cause chaos in the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79457	The replica matches the vice president of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79458	Thank you very much. Well, I agree with what you said. And I have to admit, for my answer, I have reported primarily because of the fact that you mentioned, and I, too, have previously been a series of objections, serious objections, experts from that area to this law that are not respected at all. In doing so, I mean not only those who are not easily characterized as conservative but also those who can certainly not be so characterized on the web site of the association B.A.B.E. etc., which brought very serious experts a whole series of serious objections to this law. The fact also that the Ombudsman gave a large list of objections to the children. However, when the lawyer was changed and the ruling size was decided, a new lawyer was elected, then she, without reason, withdrew all objections, i.e. she had not had any more objections than that large list of remarks that the Office of the Ombudsman had previously made. Therefore, I will not question whether this is a conflict of interest but the fact is that most of the objections were very critical and that it was not respected at all no matter what side it came from.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79459	Replica esteemed Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79460	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Reiner and I noticed this allegation where you said this law was a mess. That's what I've been listening to coming to this session of distinguished legal experts. And the fundamental thought that was going through was that the paper reforms without the logistics that followed them were pointless. And to enter such an important area, let's say in reforms without ensuring adequate family experts, service services, etc. Of course, it is unacceptable that family policy is implemented only by changing family rules while family centres are being abolished, is not being invested in appropriate court services. And so there's what legal experts here and here have been talking about, whether the judges will be able to meet these requirements in such a short time. But what is especially important to emphasize and what you said about the unnecessary introduction of new principles, unnecessarily. And that fundamental principle in the Social Care Act, the principle of timelyity, is very much at stake. Of course, the timing in which the family centers showed their importance about the counseling, etc., surely comes a fundamental issue because there is nothing more important in these situations to intervene in a timely manner. And now expect from these special custody centers that they will make certain shifts, a certain quality, I think it's really hard to expect mainly in such a short time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79461	Last line of respect,... Excuse me, reply to the replica, the Honorable Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79462	Thank you very much. Well, I don't think it's ever enough to stress that just because they won't be educated enough, there's not enough time to apply this law that it's going to cause incredible problems in spending. But there's another whole series of problems that's gonna happen. Let's say, it's unclear what it's going to look like, if it's going to be used in Croatia, in a country where there's such a huge unemployment rate, where there's a very pronounced gray economy. And the question arises, of course, whether the state has not singled out temporary restraints in another law just to make it easier to reduce or perhaps even abolish it. In fact, the question is, and in what sense does family policy go in the first place? Family centers have been abolished, and it's going to be called different, and they're going to be organized differently, but who knows what it's going to look like. Support for parental training is abolished through the restriction of parental care supervision. In fact, in a way, they raise their hands from protecting the rights of the child by the state during the divorce procedure, a whole series of things being done, and the other things that are required are inconclusive. Let's say there's no room for contacts, no psychosocial assistance when she needs it, etc. I am therefore afraid that the implementation of this law will cause incomparably greater problems than the current law, and it is said that it was not adequate. And once again, I stress, instead of having improved the solutions in the current law, a new one was made with an enormous mess that would cause it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79463	And the last replica, the esteemed Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79464	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Reiner, you've made it very clear that this law is upside down and that it's more difficult indeed for those who go in the wrong order. Obligatory counselling and family mediation certainly cannot be expensive, and they are done during the period when family centres are shut down. Then it was placed in this seventh section that there was mandatory counselling and family mediation. While family mediation is the process of voluntary access and settlement of mutual custody of children, the division of property and everything else is the mandatory consultation that the social care centres determine prior to the proceedings of the judicial solution itself. I think there is absolutely no basis in what has happened to family centres that have been good form and have done much good for the family in the Republic of Croatia who, by their counseling, have saved a lot of marriages. This is the way in which the thesis itself is placed itself that first of all it is mandatory to consult, and then the family mediation absolutely in this law sets the thing contrary to what it should be in practice. I believe that the political decisions, by abolishing family centres, have come to the conclusion that they are not working in social care anymore, they are not in office at all, they are unrecognizable. I would also like to stress that by setting up new counselling centres in social care centres as well as the family mediation that will be in one we will try to make this law to sue you, cadiya judges you. They're giving you advice, and otherwise, they're suing you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79465	The replica matches the vice president of the House, Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79466	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Your Honor, of course, you've asked the mediator's question. I can say that it bothers me too and maybe take a step further, ask myself what kind of mediator's neutrality is in family matters that are at the same time employed in the welfare system. Therefore, mediators are expected to be employees of the social care centre. And then we know that social care centres are state institutions that are interlinked and the welfare centre is authorised to launch measures to protect the interests of children and express these measures. Thus, neutrality does not exist, of course. And the question arises, which is the difference in the way that we've been intervening with people who are supposed to do it, whether it's just some other person now, or whether it's going to come down to the same person as it is just under the second record above its office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79467	The word is now received by the Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth-Respected Maya Sporish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79468	Thank you very much. Well, here's what I'd like to say is just a few things just because it doesn't spread needless debate, and some things the government has already decided to adopt, or resolve by amendment. In fact, provisions relating to the establishment of a special custody centre will come into force immediately so that the same can be established without any problem. The other provisions will enter into force on 1 September, not on 1 July. So, for education, there will be plenty of time left for the judges to prepare. Also, in the final draft of the law here, it was mentioned that Article 63 did not change that a child under the age of 16 who became a parent needs parental consent. In the final draft of the law, it has been amended. So that child who becomes a parent, a child under the age of 16 needs parental consent to acknowledge paternity, and at the age of 16 to 18 no longer. It was changed in the final bill. And in particular, I need to clarify Article 88 that an abortion with a minor is introduced in this way into the law. For example, Article 88(2) states: "If it is a medical procedure related to the risks of severe consequences for the physical or mental health of the patient child with the consent of the child referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, it is also necessary to approve the child’s parents or other legal representative." The abortion is certainly a risk of serious consequences both to the physical and mental health of the child, so it is not left to this case even in law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79469	Replications. First respected Vesna Scare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79470	Dear Deputy Minister. It seems to me that this term of September 1st will not be enough to carry out a quality education profession, so I think primarily of judges and to begin with the application of this new Family Law. There's too much complex matter, there's too much newspaper, there's still too much of it, regardless of this legal proposal and uncertainty. Consider the annual vacations, hence from 1.07 to 1.09. are annual vacations. Who will you get in education at the time? So, in the 1st of September, it's absolutely not a real term for me to start applying this law. The best thing would be, absolutely best, and I don't know where the government is in a hurry to pass this law, it would be best if this law went into third reading and started to apply from the 1st of the second year.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79471	Do we have a reply to the replica? We don't. New replica, the esteemed vice president of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79472	Thank you very much. So here's to refer to both things. The 9th month is absolutely certain and I am completely in agreement with my colleague, Skare-Ozbolt, is not a significant improvement compared to 1.07, because it is about 2 months, the summer months during which everyone is on vacations. It is a comprehensive law that requires a whole series of adjustments, new introductions, etc. So now we're discussing some things, interpreting these things as possible interpretations. What's that gonna look like in real life? Therefore, I personally believe it is entirely impossible for judges to prepare themselves for the implementation of this law in such a short period of time. And so we suggested that as the least evil to go into third reading. As for Article 88, I agree, I would also interpret it, but it is an interpretation that is said here and which can be interpreted differently. The court is an independent body, independent of both Parliament and the Government. And the judge might interpret it differently. And if we play the interpretations, then it's not a good law. It also seems to me that, at the very least, it is important for the relationship between the government and the Parliament that we have a passion for some terms, and then suddenly the government says it, but we've already solved it because we're going to do it with one amendment. So what has not been resolved in all these months in response to a number of questions and remarks that have been referred to in this very sense by people very qualified. But it wasn't in the final bill that it was put in place, but now at the last minute, one half solution is trying to do it. It's not enough September 1st and you'll see it absolutely in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79473	The last replica, the esteemed Head of the Sun. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79474	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's a series of amendments and permanent changes to the application of the date of application when it will take effect exactly points to what fellow Reiner is on behalf of our club and said that this law should be sent to third reading. So it's impossible to learn from day to day what you can do to change everything from day to day. Therefore, once again I return to what experts have said legally, socially, all those who deal with this law and who will have to apply it, this reading is too long. It's impossible to absorb, let alone until September. We need to go into three readings to get all the comments in place, not to have an ad hoc solution to the amendments, and we don't know whether it's over or whether we're going to have a few more amendments by the end of this debate. Therefore, since nomotechnical errors, it has been placed all unwrote to sign up for a plus if anything had been done. This is too serious matter to leave it like this and to just say the law is here, please choose to apply it and in practice we will see again in fact that 200 almost added new articles will be impossible to apply and we do not know who will actually be able to work on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79475	Thank you. On behalf of the club Jadranka Kosor and HGS will speak to the respected representative Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79476	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs. It is worth saying again in the beginning something that is notorious since the debate we remember in the Croatian Parliament always said more or less at the beginning, which is the fact that this is one of the most important of the fundamental laws concerning human rights particularly important for every society because it touches the lives of each of us, from birth to death. It concerns both large and small families and happy and unhappy and rich and poor, and the state as well as any law in particular must make life easier for families, therefore it must pass laws that will be clear, precise, easily enforceable so that each of us understands them, each of us not just lawyers, but also clear and precise so that institutions from the welfare center to the courts can implement them. It is our opinion that the new Family Law, unfortunately, is not such a law. That he will not be able to spend himself easily or simply and that I certainly mentioned him as an important fact that every citizen and every citizen will not be able to interpret him alone until the end and accurately. The more I read the new bill that is now in the second reading, the more I am sure that one part of the expert public who claimed that we did not need a new law but that we could improve the existing law was right. Since this is indeed huge and one of the laws in the Republic of Croatia that includes us with more than 560 articles, I think it is in the final reading and I suppose that some of the proposals will not be accepted to go into the third reading, I think that here with us today there should be a resolution minister because only the minister can make political decisions during the debate and during the debate accept or do not accept certain proposals that stand out in the Croatian Parliament, and as the Government responds to the Croatian Parliament then it seems to me that it would be more than logical. But since we're changing the law, otherwise I don't think it does, we shouldn't even suggest that the law goes into third reading because my opinion is that until the third reading nothing is essential from those important and major remarks and professional ones, and the political public could not be adequately and properly changed to ensure the balance of the law. Because in law, when you take out one brick, if we imagine the law as a wall, then usually on the other side, it can happen that the wall collapses. But once the law changes, then I plead to find as many better solutions as possible, so the amendments here try to find better solutions and bring those solutions into line with real life with what life really is. So it's also a law for foster families, and single-parent families and families where grandparents live with grandchildren and every other form of family, because family is where home is, where happiness is, where pleasure, where we are welcome, where they teach us everything that is necessary in cooperation, in life, in co-existence with other people, and where they respect us and love us no matter how good or bad we are. It is also important to mention this in this law because recently, relatively recently, when we discussed a referendum on marriage, we heard such a thesis right in the assembly, that the family is exclusively a community of men, women and children. In previous years, many years ago, we also listened to the opinions of some of our former colleagues who, speaking about women, for example, felt that a woman was as valuable as she had given birth to, so women who had not given birth are not worthy, those with one child are each less valuable than those who gave birth to two children, etc. I mention this because we need to be very careful about the adoption of basic laws on life and the progress of every society, and this is what we are more about, it has nothing to do with this law, but ultimately it has to do with life, with the life of the family. And some announcements in some interviews of prominent doctors in Croatia who, for example, consider when talking about the Law on Medical Aided Insemination so that women living alone, this prominent doctor calls them singles, should, for example, be prohibited in the future of medically assisted insemination. So, you need to be very careful, one day to open up here and discuss the issue of abortion because as far as I know in the Republic of Croatia, the law that regulates it since 1988 is still in force, because no one in that debate in the political space has dared engage and the time is, I think, we are now a member of the European Union and to talk about it once. At the beginning, she told us that the law has changed, among other things, that new ones are being adopted and that the number of European Court of Human Rights rulings has increased. My opinion is that the number of European Court of Human Rights rulings pointing to the Republic of Croatia could be higher after the adoption of this law, because the European Court of Human Rights is not talking about laws, but is talking about law enforcement and the exercise of the rights of Croatian citizens and citizens, the European Court of Human Rights says. In this context, of course, I am also looking at these proposed provisions regarding mediation. This morning I heard the head of this working group who was working on a new law on Croatian Radio which was asked about the insurance funds, and the law will, in all likelihood, start and implement this year, insurance funds precisely for some solutions from the law that would have to be translated into life, she said she did not know about it and was not in charge of money. And I think, of course, that the problem of budget funds will certainly be large and questionable when the law, if adopted in this form, begins to be implemented. In the use of the home, the lady who runs the task force also said this morning that since the possibility was troubled, the inability to cancel the leases because without the consent of the other spouse, and what was asked was the question if the boss would chase them because he would not deal with it could achieve consent or not. The lady said that it is necessary to change literally, quote, "It is necessary to change people's mentality." It's something that's very difficult to accept even though one of the guides is through the making of a new law, was also the intention of changing people's mentality then it's completely wrong, completely wrong because we must, I repeat, align the laws with the life he is and not affect the changes of that type. And now very specific about some of the bill's proposals that I think I can fix. In fact, Article 3, which says, "A woman and a man have one right to each other and duties in all family and legal relations, especially in relation to parental care." I agree with all those who say it should be in this article, that it is necessary, because it is the foundation of this law, and add that discrimination against sex and violence against a partner is prohibited. Because this stems from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, there is little talk of violence in the family, extremely little is said, less and less, of violence against women only on occasion, with the National Day of Combating Violence against Women and that is, ladies and gentlemen all. So let us install these foundations, add another paragraph to Article 3, especially if, in Article 4, we are talking about solidarity which is the fundamental principle of family life, and it is said that all must be respected. But in addition, the fundamental principle that violence is socially unacceptable should be introduced. So where are we going to talk about violence is unacceptable to all of us if not in the Family Law? Similarly, Article 51 states that if a court finds that marital relations are severe and permanent, I agree with all those who feel that a court should divorce a marriage if one of the spouses claims that these marriages are permanently disturbed and that a life together is impossible. In Article 95, especially problematic, a parent who lives with a child has the responsibility and responsibility to enable, encourage the achievement of relationships, personal relations of the child with another parent. So, there's a duty to secure relationships, but what is it and we talked a lot about it in the law in the first reading, what about a parent who has to encourage personal relations with another parent's child, and the second parent is a drunkard, a commoner, a bully, a gambler? Should this, should the law, a parent living with a child, force him to have relations with another parent if his behavior is absolutely unacceptable and, of course, harmful for both the development and the life of a child? I also propose some changes in article 141 regarding psychiatric treatment, which I will try, or we will try to translate into amendments. And now, about the adoption, about the topic, which caused a gathering, a round table in the Croatian Parliament, so on the adoption of a child who is not allowed to be married partners. So, it's allowed for everyone, it's allowed for everyone, and it's allowed for the person who lives alone, which I think is fine, but it's not allowed for the extramarital partners. This provision allows what I think is most undesirable, and that is permanent and all kinds of manipulation. So, people living in an out-of-marriage community, or in an out-of-marriage partnership, of course, can fakely show the centre, or institutions they address for adoption and claim to be single, and then see if they can meet the criteria as singles for adopting a child, and actually live with another person in an extramarital community that can be extremely happy and successful because people for some reason do not want to marry. I think that in the formulation of this article in the first place beyond all interests, it must be of interest to the welfare of a child because for a child, each family is better than the environment of home, so every family, especially a family in which they live in a coherent and happy family who, of course, want to adopt and embrace a child and provide him with a happy future. It is, in the end... an article that prohibits people living in an extramarital community of adoption, it disagrees with both the Constitution and the Law on Gender Equality and the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination which clearly states that any discrimination is prohibited, inter alia, for marital status. Finally, I also point out Article 28 for legal reasons where marriage is said to be impossible for a person who is married or registered. We can't in one law that we're bringing into the provisions of a law that doesn't exist because the law that isn't voted in the Croatian Parliament, which has passed only the first reading is the non-existent law. So I can't believe the task force made that kind of failure. When that law is passed, if passed, then we can change the Family Law and install this provision. And I am absolutely sure that any provision of the law that will enter into force on July 1st cannot be implemented until the end and in the right way, so... not that it is short, but it is absolutely too short and I repeat, I don't think even a reference to the third reading would change the situation with this law that has a lot of open questions to which we haven't actually heard the answers today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79477	Thank you. We have reported three replicas. First respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79478	Dear MPs, you say at the outset that this law, if adopted, will not be easy to apply, that many experts have said, that experts said that it was only necessary to fix this existing law, but it should be said on this note that a whole concept, as we had when we were just passing it in '78. That revolutionary law that was leading and advanced in its time, he put in an equal position for men and women. He made it possible to speak and live equally of all aspects, but this bill puts exactly its focus on the child, because the abuses that occur are precisely because parents, and we always say that parents are the best, even if they have their own faults, but some other or third person, however, what happens every day in our courts says that this is not the case, and this law wants to prevent it. And those who think they're working in the child's interest to do it often just to get revenge on their mate to this other partner, and children often suffer here. And that's not what the Proposer wants to allow, and that's what we do if we want to be dramated by kids, we don't care about adults who have decided to divorce, but they and these procedures take a long time to experience it. And that's the only place where both partners are most often guilty when it happens. Whoever attacks regardless of the determination or guilt or whatever it is that the marriage is not at all disputed, and regardless of the trauma and the victim of the other, must not treat the child and must not raise the child in that spirit. And this law says it won't tolerate their passions in court. They're grown-ups and let them settle their relationships, but the kids need to be protected and the kids here are the most sensitive.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79479	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79480	We, colleagues Anticevic-Marinovic, agree on the goal, but we do not agree on how to reach that goal, so we do not agree on the path to come. I will mention two examples again, I agree with the child's interest in children must be above all interests at the heart of all attention, but of course the equality of men and women and the fight against violence must also be the fundamental objectives of family law. However, I mentioned in the discussion of two examples and more, but I will now tell you two, meaning contacts that must be provided and personally encouraged by the personal contact of the parent with whom the child lives regardless of the parent who does not live with the child. So is a thief in the right sense of the word, a drunkard, a heavy gambler who can have an extremely difficult and bad influence on the development of a child and the other one in adoption. So you're saying that it's in the best interest that the child's interest is at the centre of the Family Law's attention, that then the Proposer doesn't allow people living together to adopt the child, let alone the licenses. people who live alone. And I repeat again, that provision will make many people lie, cheat completely unnecessary, and it is not of course in the best interests of the child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79481	Another replica respected by Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79482	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Kosor, you said that the working group leader said that people should change their mentality, and you also said that this law is truly incomprehensible. And there's now one question to ask, and I think that's also the point of this law that has more than 560 articles for which the laws are actually written. Are the laws written so that the law would be some kind of doctoral dissertation to someone in the task force? Whether laws are written for citizens who should be able to read them, understand because every citizen must know what their rights are and what their obligations are regardless of what the law is about. And when we talk about family law as the most important law because it really concerns each one of us from birth to death, then it's very important that we understand what it says. The funds in the budget, the manager said she didn't know if they were there, if they weren't there, and that's our problem when we write these laws, when they're written by people sitting in offices, who aren't in the field, who write the laws from the theoretical angle of view, but they don't write them from practical experience, and that happens to us every day more and more and more. If this law really wants to protect children and if it is a priority for us, then we went to change such a large law just because of it, then I think it would be the most logical that we have made changes, that we have invited all the directors of the center 120 and as many as we have in Croatia at the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, that we have asked everyone what these problems are on the ground and that we may have changed that part of the law that was not good or difficult to implement.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79483	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79484	Well, of course I agree. The law when we make new laws in such an important area that absolutely touches each of us, every citizen, every citizen, then we must always strive to move forward to improve the system, and we cannot go backwards, especially to complicate it. It is my opinion that when the Family Law opens any of us highly educated, less educated people that they can find what they are interested in for divorce, for birth, to get an answer to the question of who the mother is, and who the father is, etc., because I have personally met many times with people who are in some trouble in the family and then ask at different stages of my same political life if I know how to solve a question that troubles them or troubles them. Then I'd suggest you read it. So it's not the Penal Code that requires further interpretation, it needs to be written clearly and precisely here. And on the other hand, the question of money is an extremely important question, so that's a zero point. When the new law begins to be written and when it is before the adoption then the budget must provide the funds for the first 6 months because it will enter into force on 1 July. I say again, and we'll see by the end of the year, that the means to implement this law in this form are not secured and are not sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79485	Dujomir Marasovic will present the last line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79486	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleague Kosor, I agree that we should not go through with the adoption of the law because 500 and some articles write it home failed, impossible in realisation, the weather that should enter the 1st of July impossible. Those 15 days in court, the hearing's a month away, it won't be possible to conduct, so we know in advance that it's something that's failed. But what I don't agree with you, or I don't understand what you said about an abortion, especially because we have entered the European Union. I don't know why the European Union should be teaching us about abortion because, first of all, the European Union is not touching, because these are the interests and matters of every individual chance of the European Union and why we should ask them what they should tell us about the abortion. Because following that logic, we should ask if we should believe in God and have a relationship with religion in Croatia. Because the European Union did not want to, it threw it out of the preamble, or it did not want to put God into preamble. So we should have them now, by their logic we should ask in Croatia if our president of the country can use what he swears to God help me, whether he should ask the European Union if he is. Josipovic swore, though he said he did not believe in God. That's another question. The third question is, I'm a little surprised that you don't accept out-of-marriage friends in any way, so let's call them adoption, this proposal doesn't allow them to adopt. When they part, they can part, they don't need to ask anyone. Who's left with the baby? When an individual adopts a man, a woman, remains a child who adopts him, there is no one to divorce. But when these married, not married, extramarital couples don't have any legal status, when they differ, there's no child left behind by a colleague, Kosor, it stays on the street.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79487	Time. The replica corresponds to the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79488	I'm not really going to respond to the replica because I said long ago to my colleagues that I wouldn't replicate to Marasovic, but I only have to answer for clarifications so that people don't get this transmission so that someone doesn't get it completely wrong. I have also mentioned several cases of family law, several debates, of the fact that a prominent gynecologist announces that when he becomes a minister, he will demand that women living in the same medically assisted insemination be banned, so I have put into this context a possible debate which the policy always avoids about the law on abortion and I did not say because of the entry into the European Union. Because, of course, every country solves these issues on its own than I said because it's still in force, as far as I can remember and as far as I'm going from the former state. And that is inadmissible for one sovereign member of the European Union. So it's inadmissible to apply some of the laws of prehistory. In the end, I think the fact that statistics show that the number of abortions has been reduced to the point where the problem is at stake. So, I'm against abortion, but the focus of the problem must be learning, education, open conversation, and what it requires and better care for parents and better care and care for the school. And as far as adoption is concerned, I'm absolutely sure based on experience because I was also a family minister for every child living in a home is better than any other family environment, absolutely everyone. And recently there was a debate about it in public and we heard really scandalous opinions about whether or not it would be good for a child to stay in a home without being adopted by singles, etc. So things are clear here and the law of course needs to be regulated. If there are open issues, then the adoption of children in extramarital communities should be fully regulated.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79489	On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a colleague, Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79490	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. This law certainly improves the earlier solution in a number of places when it is Wednesday, when family relations are on Wednesdays, and when it is on Wednesdays, for example. The definition of parenting. However, there are places where unfortunately it has not gone far enough. One of those places is about adoption. Therefore, in the practice of adoption, there is no doubt that the advantage should be given, i.e. to enable or go more towards being able to adopt children in an extramarital community. Given the state of marriage in the Republic of Croatia and given the indicators I spoke about once in the debate on the Law on Marriage, or constitutional changes, it is clear that marriages are no longer nearly stable and unstable communities and that for this reason children should be allowed to get as good a social framework as possible for their socialization and for their emotional needs. Because regardless of whether it is made as worldly or as a church marriage, there is no doubt that extramarital partnerships should be given the opportunity to adopt children. Because their social stability and their longevity prove to be no less significant than individual marriages. The other thing I wanted to say was restraint. Maintenance is, of course, a legal obligation, but a legal obligation that we have less and less conjecture. The law says that parents have no legal obligation to support children after 26 years, and ask your parents, conduct research, and you will see how many parents support their children after 26. Given the fact that we have 40% of unemployed young people, who else will support them? The same applies naturally to the obligation to support grandparents. Who will support grandparents, those who have no business? Those offered occasional and temporary work? To those whose process so-called deregulation or liberalisation does not even guarantee their safety, let alone the possibility of caring for their elders? As an example of this, I'm going to tell you two years ago, one Christmas or New Year's Eve, I don't remember, the woman who told me to wait in line for meat that I can still take care of my elders, my parents, but certainly my children won't be able to take care of me anymore. What is it that we prescribe, what norms are desirable that we put in place, while at the same time creating societies where it will not be possible, in which we will pass the Labour Act which will destroy the assumptions that this is a matter that this law can work and that social policy measures and that the measures of the Family Law can work. In this regard, it seems to me that it is very important for this law to be followed by other measures in order to create assumptions for its implementation, i.e. for its implementation. The third thing that I find particularly important and significant in this bill is the question of items that regulate family mediation, or the role of family mediator. So the thing that's been done in social care centers through different consulting mechanisms. How effective, of course, is the second question. We have nothing in principle against family mediation, but we would feel that other than referring to a book by an American author, an American university needs to say more about it and we need to know more about what it actually brings. And, of course, apart from typing messages, it's very important that we have ears and hear what the speaker is saying, which, by chance, may be a parliamentary representative, respected representatives of the ministry. If you think you're here to communicate with the outside world, and not with the world of this House, then you're not in the right place. If you think you're here to close your ears in front of us who are speaking here, then you have the best possible relationship to this House and to us as agents. You can say whatever you want, we'll do what we want. If that's your position and your understanding of the role of this House, then tell us. Then one of us shouldn't be here. So as far as family mediators are concerned, I am asked what this means is that there will be two categories of mediators, one that will work as part of the Social Care Centre and that there will be other mediators such as Article 343, or 344 respectively. Does this mean that we will transfer the issue of family mediation to the private sector? If so, then tell us. And with what and how will the minister, according to his discretionary right, regulate it and what will be the criteria for this regulation? The income, the weight of a case or something? There's no such thing in the law. Whether the minister will do so with his discretion or we MPs here will have to determine by which criteria it is something that represents a significant state obligation left in private hands, regardless of what the register will be. But the issue of marital mediation isn't about fixing teeth, so to say okay, you have the right to pull teeth and it will pay socially, but we won't pay you for it anymore. That's what we're interested in, and I'm asking you an answer. Social care centers play a huge role in this law, and that's good, but what's the state of the welfare center? Most social care centres are in a position to get new and new obligations and new and new duties, but not new personnel, not new people. And by this law you have prescribed a number of obligations and powers of the social care centre, but you did not predict that more people will be employed, and already existing centres warn that they cannot withstand so much work and that they cannot do it well and that they are objectively unable to perform it physically, especially those who have a family. Maybe those who don't have families can. But those who have families can't work from 7 to 7 or from 8 to 7. For this reason, it is necessary to do something to change things and to reduce the burden while finally allowing people to have the necessary working conditions. If it's true that they don't have phone lines enough to be able to do their job, then it needs to be changed. In the end, I would like to say that those who think that the family is the foundation of society, and in doing so forget only society and its institution, those who, between families, those who, above all, consider the family as a social unit, but by the expression of God's will or church obligations, I would like to say that they make a great contribution to the destruction of the family as a social community. This is best shown by the fact that on the one hand we have an advocate for total destruction of social values and social institutions, and on the other hand we have advocating God's criteria for regulating marital relations. And for this reason, it seems to me that the left liberal government, which I belong to in political beliefs, must not be destroyed by the social dimension of the family, the social dimension of adoption, the social dimension of restraint, and I fear that this way in these indicators shows that this social dimension is lost, especially when it comes to the social care component. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79491	Thank you. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79492	Maybe I should start with what you're done with. If that were the case, that is, if those advocates of life by sacrament and marriage so that you would not be questioned by God's standards. Unfortunately, however, these lives often live against both God’s and human laws, where violence prevails, and where I will repeat the most hurtful children once again. You mentioned just the current problem, not the modern age, not just these last years, but perhaps a whole century ago about the instability of modern marriage, as well as the church and civil marriage. However, since you mentioned it, we are bound by contracts with the Holy Table. So, when marriage is concluded in church form, it is automatically considered that it is also concluded in civil form. However, there is one flaw. What about the end of marriage? Because such individuals often ignore, well that's their legal right, the Croatian authorities don't, they only make a church marriage. That's what I've been talking about, and I'm going to talk about it all the time, and that's where we need to find a solution. What about those people who come before regular courts to ask for a divorce? If we want to be worthy and honor these contracts, then who's nice enough to conclude church marriage, then he can't, he shouldn't have done it before he even concluded it in front of a civil marriage. Then let him seek divorce, or divorce, in the canon and that right church rather than civil authorities, so he seeks divorce. And there's one more thing I'd like to say here that you rightly appeal to Parliament's dignity and parliamentary representatives, and that's what everyone should take care of. But I think you've been too harsh, that you've wrongly fallen upon the deputy Mrs. Maya Sporish. Here we are on the Legislative Committee. a whole series of amendments proposed. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]] They've already been adopted And in that contact, I see he's often in contact with the co-author of the law. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79493	Thank you very much. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79494	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So, colleague Pupovac, you emphasized the importance of the social care centre, the main burden of these employees at the social care centres with which I worked with for many years and years and witnessed their expertise and advantages. But it's true what you said, that they are immensely burdened, burdened daily and are given more new obligations that are simply insurmountable. So they have to fill out countless forms of paper, so we're witnessing every little bit in the media of certain moments where they're exposed to pressures, so this kind of affair, and then it says removed this one, removed that one. I believe that in this part, irreparable damage has been done by abolishing family centers with that purpose, the purpose of rationalization, and now here are the centers for this as special custody that will solve in a short time. Well, everyone is, even the promoter agrees that this time isn't enough. It's already saying something to itself that it won't be able to form in such a short time that it works qualityly, to satisfy all the moments that are coming. These are young children, young children, children of the most vulnerable of their lives. So we are aware that today's time, the threshold of addiction, unfortunately, is going all the way down. These are major problems, and they need to be really responsible and serious, and these people at these social care centres despite their commitment, despite their will they are not able to do so, and that is why your claim stands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79495	Replication response, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79496	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A respected colleague with regard to the Centre for Special Care or Special Care, unfortunately, is one of the places that should be better defined than it is. As family mediation should be better defined than it is. But that's not what I was talking about, precisely because I wanted to limit myself to just these components that I pointed out. As for the questions raised by counterpart Anticevic, our laws do not distinguish between worldly and church marriages and it is clear that because of this fact that the law is even they cannot then be treated differently in court. And in this sense, the only thing that seems important to me is to add once again that it is necessary to think about how the rights of the extramarital partners should not be less than whether the rights of individuals or persons who are individuals who are entitled to adopt, and the extramarital partners do not have that right. And as for Deputy Deputy Ms. Sporish, if in any way I have hurt her feelings or the performance of her duties in this place, I will, of course, be happy to apologize to her, but it is unusual, not only for her but also for anyone else, that at the time of the debate on the law in question, there are communications that are other species, regardless of which member or member of the Government it is. And it is our duty to warn you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79497	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79498	Your Honor, Madam President. Comrade Pupovac, you said that in some ways you did not like that the church propagated God’s criteria regarding the relationship between a man, a woman and the maintenance of marriage or marriage, and that was your intensity. You would sort of say it all out, ignore it, and suggest another worldview. I don't think that's fair of you. We know the Orthodox Church allows marriage to priests, I wouldn't go into it. We know that the Orthodox Church is liberal in divorce and that's okay, in a way, I wouldn't go into it. It's not right for you to in some way ignore the Catholic Church's access to some questions. It's just something I always tell you again, it's not good on your part. When someone else says that, come on, you can pass atheists, but it's always on your side to see why you're now touching Catholic criteria, criteria of the Catholic Church. It's obvious you've touched that. And my father taught me don't teach my son politics, electricity, and leave the church and the priest alone. If you give them anything, don't touch them. Now, what I've listened to in my life, which I don't know. But I wouldn't approve of you. I don't like the fact that you went public on these values that the Catholic Church is propagating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79499	He didn't exactly speak in that sense, but he'll answer your line. Milorad Pupovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79500	At first I didn't talk about liking or talking about what I liked or didn't like. When it comes to liking it, it is quite certain that there is reason to turn my eyes to another colleague, Marasovic, rather than to you in this hall. So, I was talking about the fact that marriage as a social whole must not be anyone's monopoly, so there's no doubt about it, and I wasn't talking about any particular church, but about the tendency to traditionalize the understanding of marriage and to neglect its social dimension, its dependence on social relations, its perspective that determines social relations. And if we forget society and only talk about marriage, marriage, church, and God as spoken a hundred years ago, then unfortunately, such marriage will have no future, nor will those who grow up to have the necessary freedoms for today’s societies. That's what I'm talking about, regardless of whether I'm speaking from the perspective of one confession or another confession. Now I didn't speak as an Orthodox or as a Catholic or as any third, I spoke as a free man with my ideas. And I'd like you to make sure that I'm equal here with you, at least in freedom of speech if I'm not in something else. And that there are no limits here who can talk about what, who can't talk. Everyone takes care of it themselves, and I'm pretty much taking care of what I can talk about and what I can't talk about. This is what I think I should talk about because marriage is a seriously violated social institution. One of the directions from which it doesn't collapse is the one you're trying to talk about, and the other is this destruction of society as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79501	Thank you. Deputy Minister Maya Sporish, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79502	Thank you very much. Here, I owe an answer to the esteemed Pupovac, related to family mediation. With regard to family mediation, the Ministry will adopt a subsequent sublegal act which will regulate the way in which family mediation will be conducted and in which it will be precisely defined. There will be educated mediators in every way, so those who have this will also call it such private practice and those who will be in the welfare system. Those financed from the state budget, meaning from the welfare system, will be financed in this way. Private mediators who will also be educated will pay the parties themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79503	Replica, Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79504	As Parliamentarians, we would like something that is very important for the rights of citizens and very important for the implementation of this law that is visible in the law itself. What is the problem with defining what criteria will someone be directed to the welfare center and someone will be directed to private mediation? Is that going to be a free commitment to people? That's what we'd like to know. And is somewhere going to happen to someone to say that because they're too busy, because there are too many media cases to say go do it in private. Therefore, I think that, I think that you should define this by law because something that can be drawn out of it that can be undesirable and with bad conjecture, and can compromise your entire mediation process while opening up a space for privatising a sector where so far such a privatisation process has not been in place. This means that part of social care jobs try to privatise and introduce a private dimension into very sensitive relationships, in very sensitive, emotional, legal, each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79505	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, colleague Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79506	Thank you, Vice President. Respected deputies with associates, colleagues and colleagues, this law, if it starts to apply as it says here in a month, I'm afraid it's not going to come out for good and it's going to bring one big, big disturbance to not only all the families, but also work in all the centers and all those around that law, at least those who should implement it. This is a list of good wishes. The law cannot be said not to be bad if we read it as something we would like in some future, but it is not a law that we can do quality in Croatia in the circumstances that we are currently living in. And it will cause very, very big problems and we will only start to face them and it would be really good, it would be desirable that we have a third reading of this law even though I agree with my colleague Kosor who has already said that maybe even a third reading would not change anything because it is obvious that the motionary of the Government might somehow have already put an ad act and that just waiting for his adoption to start living with him. When the previous law was passed, it was also warned of the speed of its adoption, under these pressures it went in, its application was delayed for a reason, but it seems that every time in every respect we have to make the same mistakes and repeat everything over and over again, and that no lesson is important enough for us. The adoption of children by partners living in extramarital communities, we believe that the law discriminates against the extramarital community in terms of child adoption. A child can be adopted by mates together, one mate if the other mate is a parent or adoptor of a child, one mate with the consent of another mate and a single person who is not married. And we're hearing arguments here today what if two people living in an extramarital community get divorced or don't live together anymore, that child will stay where, on the street, under the bridge, where will those people leave that child? We treat people like they're all irresponsible, like we're all thieves, like no one has any emotions, like no one has any parental feelings in them. On the other hand, we do not respect the Constitution by which all of us had the same rights, we do not respect the fundamental, fundamental human rights of everyone in Croatia and it is extremely dangerous. The question is, why are we acting like this? We allow one person who is not married to adopt a child, but we do not allow the same child to be adopted by two people living in an extramarital community by giving these same laws to these extramarital communities and quoting the same rights of this family law that each marriage has. I ask myself, where does a child stay if something happens to a single parent who adopted that child? Will that child take Grandma, Grandpa, aunt, aunt, aunt, who? It does not say in the law, but we take the right to give the person who is not married, who is not in any community the right and the possibility to adopt a child but not to two people living in an extramarital community and who, here, did not want to or do not want to respect the form to be formally concluded and married. This is justified by the fact that proof of the extramarital community would be extremely long, and then possible problems would arise. But I'm asking myself, is the adoption process for us in Croatia so fast and simple that proving some extramarital community would be much longer than that? As for the adoption of children we have, we warn in continuity of not sufficiently clear rules and insufficiently transparent, I don't even know what to call it, facts that indicate which parent, or which potential adoptors are of quality to bring a child into the adoption process and get. We now have a situation where potential adoptors report to their center of residence, that care for a child to be adopted leads the center towards the place of residence of the child, so we have two different centers, between adoptors and children, we have a register of potential adoptors. The social care centre must establish the psychophysical and all other abilities of potential adoptors that are registered as such in the register. Somewhere, a center has a child who is ready to adopt, in the sense that all legal obligations that allow such a child to be adopted are resolved. Who's having a baby? Who is it that decides what potential adoptors in that register will be truly the best to take care of that child? We now have the practice of potential adoptors having to write applications and requests at all social work centres with one single question, do you have any children who are currently being dealt with with with the papers that we might adopt? But it is not the end of the whole story, the child gets that parent and that parent, or those adoptors are considered much more similar who have sent more such questions to several centres in Croatia and I think it is really not good and it is an extremely bad practice. Are these issues of potential adoptors that as such mean that I am interested as a potential adoptor extremely strong to adopt a child? Are such questions really relevant and the number of such questions to the centres to say whether I am the potential best adoptor or not? After all, these potential adoptors from the center don't get any answers, which means that it's questionable whether such questions ended up somewhere in some archive under their name or last name as potential adoptors, whether they were recorded somewhere to possibly one day when we had a child might say, you asked the most questions, or you asked the most questions, you asked the highest in these years, two, three, five, or I don't know how long you were waiting for a child, and then you deserved to have that child. So these are situations that are not defined again in this Family Law, which are our daily life, which are our practice and which in the end do not lead to the welfare of the child, and in the beginning we said that these changes, i.e. in the new Family Law with 560 and so many articles go exclusively for one reason, which is to improve the rights of children who are now not well enough, here is a complex one. Restraint, so after 26 years, the obligation of parents to support that child ceases. At some point we're thinking about where the child ends up, so it's question whether we're going to let the extramarital partners adopt the child because if they divorce, the question is where the child ends up, and the next time the child turns 26, we don't care what happens to that child. Where's that kid going? There is no work, as parents we have done, let's say some of our duties, we have trained him, we have completed a child's college, it has been trained, but let's now ask the question, do we care about those children staying in Croatia or do we care about those children coming out of Croatia and going somewhere else so they can get a job? So, as a society, we haven't done anything to provide these children with some kind of prosperity and some kind of workplace that they can take care of themselves, but with the Family Law, when we talk about it, we know where that limit is and when that child should be mature enough and able to take care of itself. I agree that 26 years are years where everyone should know how to take care of themselves, but also as a parent of two, I realize that we are not in a society where no matter how capable that child is, how educated he is, how much he wants to survive as a single child without a job and without any prosperity in existence. Mediators, private and through the welfare center. We're going to get this, the law obliges me to do whatever it takes to break up that I have to listen to the mediators and I have a underage child, that I have to go to mediation, that I have to do everything I have to do because if I don't do it, then I'm going into those legal sanctions, and on the other hand, that same law offers me the possibility, or I have a mediator at the welfare center and I have a mediator. What's the deadline that I can do in the divorce process waiting for me to get in line with the mediator at the welfare center? Is it my fault if I didn't make it to that mediator because there was no place for me to come because there was too much work because the fact is that every day more and more people are breaking up for a variety of reasons, so the law obliges me as a citizen that I have to do something, but it also gives me the possibility that I can do it for free at the welfare center at the expense of the state that obliged me to do it, but I can also do it privately with some private mediator. These are things that aren't good, these are things that break up society because they don't have all the money to go to a private mediator, and, parallel to that, they suffer in families and violence and all the things they want to break up for, but it's questionable when and how it's going to turn out. And these are the questions that should be stated in this law, and I respect that the rulebook will be passed, that the rulebook will be beautifully written, but most likely in this law the hand is raised on Friday, and no one has seen what that rulebook looks like yet. This is another bad practice because when laws are passed what the law says we have knowledge of it and we know what it is and how it is, when we warn of not enough good legislation in the laws, they tell us that it will be handled very nicely by the rules, but we do not decide on these rules. When we make laws, we have no indication of how they should look and turn out to be laws for someone else to handle that law in the way it suits them. And in the end, who's to blame? The MPs who passed such a law which is a framework, and in fact what happens on the ground and what happens in most cases is written in the rule, not in the law. I suggest that, no matter how much the third reading might help us or not, that you really suggest that here's the minister to consider making a political decision and that on Friday instead of voting on this bill we get information that the Family Law is extremely extensive, that it is extremely difficult and that it needs to be discussed for a long time to go into third reading and that we hear once again what they have to say to the experts at the social care center, that we hear once again what they have to say to all those associations dealing with human rights, violence in the family, child protection, and thus give us their suggestions, and that we see smart and rationally what they would and how this law could improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79507	Thank you. Vice President Desire Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79508	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I agree with everything you've said, and I think you and a series of others have very justifiedly pointed to the fact that the law has a whole series of problems. I personally think, and especially the more I listen to my colleagues thinking that he is unfortunately irreparable and that in this form or amendments, so I'm afraid even with the third reading he won't be much better because it seems to me that when something starts to build wrong then unfortunately it's hard to correct it. But here we are, for good faith, suggesting that as the least evil goes into the third reading and try to correct these greatest shortcomings that have shown us. In any case, the law of 1.7 applies, and now we hear that the government has come up with the idea that it might be from 1.9. Which is no significant difference at all is impossible. It's impossible from what you mentioned, and before in the previous discussion when it comes to mediators, for example. Now, all of a sudden, we're going to have a big problem with mediators who go private, who goes to the social work center, of course I'm not going to talk about social separation at all, but the fact that anyone can believe that in two months if it even goes from 1.9. that we're going to have a sufficient number of these private educated mediators who will eventually meet the requirements of this law, so that's absolutely impossible. For example, in the case of a parent plan, judges have no concrete means of verifying whether the parent plan is in the best interests of the child, contrary to the very principle of Article 5 of the Law. And it can be expected that this job is being overloaded by a low-resistance judge to approve parenting plans by not entering into a more detailed study of what is with children. And it's going to open up a big space for parents to manipulate each other, which is going to be for example. to happen again when one parent who is economically or emotionally superior to blackmailing another to agree to the plan. It is clear that there will be an alternative to a multi-year trial and this also indicates that it is impossible to implement it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79509	The answer to Nancy Tyrell's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79510	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, we all agree and that's what might concern us most. It's gonna be hard to do what this law says. We should have a third reading, we should postpone it and with that third reading to go into service at the earliest if certain amendments are accepted with the 1st of January 2015 that the amendments will be able to fix what is most important in this law and I think it might be as much damage as I claim if we go at a pace like this, if we go this way, it won't do us any good. We mentioned the mediators, but we also mentioned before the special custody centers. Clicking this will cost all of it, how many people will work inside, is there essentially the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth Money to fund all this quality? We don't have travel expenses for people who work at the welfare center, and then we open special custody centres and we say it will work, it'll be good because it needs to be done through that centre because certain things need to be done. These are all the things that affect the very implementation of all of this that is written in this law. I'm afraid there's not enough money, that there aren't enough personnel trained now at this point that in the best possible way we could really enforce this law like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79511	colleague of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79512	Thank you very much. Comrade Tyrelli, I have already said my opinion on the third reading, but of course I respect your proposal and your club's suggestion that possibly this law goes into third reading and I'm going back to my debate. If a politically responsible person therefore the only one who can make a decision were here, then we would already know if it was possible and eat it acceptable. With all due respect to the people representing the ministry, of course they can't make, I can't make political decisions, and that's whether it's going into third reading, it's a political decision. And that's why I repeat in the adoption of such important laws the ministers must, must be in the assembly. It is, of course, their responsibility to the Parliament who chooses them and to whom they absolutely and at all times have to answer. But more about the adoption. So I point out one more time. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Article 14 clearly states that we are all equal before the law. In fact, Article 61 states that marriage and legal relations in marriage and the extramarital community and family are governed by law. So it is very clear that the Constitution does not discriminate in any way against the extramarital community but distinguishes marriage and the extramarital community and the family we also talked about. The Law on Gender Equality, I repeat, and the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, which we adopted in 2008, because it was a criterion for us to open one chapter, the European Commission asked, also says that any discrimination between us and marriage status is unacceptable. So these are all clear arguments that this is not only a list of good wishes but that there are desires and messages that are in line with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79513	Nancy Tyrelli, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79514	Very short, just fellow Kosor, we've given amendments, so we're looking, and I see now that another club has given the same amendments on that trail. And I really think that we should look at everything with some bad aspect because I really claim that we have a lot of extramarital communities that are much more quality and better than marriages, than marriage communities. And to really go across the social care center in the same way where the people who work in the center decide who's capable, who's better, who's worse, who's better, we can grade the people who live in the extramarital community whether they're competent enough, whether they're capable enough, whether they're enough people to give them the right to adopt the child as well. And I don't think we should make any difference here because we're all just people with the same desires, with the same needs, and it's up to us to decide whether we're going to live in a marriage or live in an extramarital community. After all, for every reason I live like this, there's always someone there.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79515	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79516	Your Honor, Madam President. Comrade Tyrelli, I don't know how here or there's no understanding, or this is a great submission to those people in the extramarital communities that I have nothing against. Here it is not a question of legislator, it does not suggest this kind of inability to adopt in these extramarital communities because of some world-wide, moral, ethical and other norms, they care about it. They're in this law they're proposing they let homosexual, not marriages, but... Small communities adopt children. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I spoke against it in my first reading. They don't care about ethics, morals, etc. There's a real norm here, making it impossible for the promoter to give, adopt a child to an extramarital partner. Because if they want, you out-of-marriage, they should take all the responsibility to that child. But they have no obligation at the moment when they differ. And it's over. And that's why it's impossible without changing other laws and situations to give a child to such couples. And I don't know why you get around it here too... They must be legally in the same status as other people who want to adopt a child, so they can adopt but can't have an obligation like everyone else and single and want to adopt a child. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a legal problem, colleague Tyrelli. It's not at all a world-famous thing to say to you or moral. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79517	The answer to Nancy Tyrell's replica. Oh, no? Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79518	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Tyrelli, I agree with you that if this law starts to apply in a month, it will produce a number of problems and I don't dare think about the consequences. But I kind of feel like I can't take the impression that the motto is somehow this law that somehow you're just getting a mutual divorce and the rest of the country still doesn't care. That's how I see it. So it's obvious that we were listening to the same show today when one of the authors of this law says when he asks if, with financial means, whether the funds are secured, I don't care, I don't think. Well, I think it takes a lot of care to worry here because if the promoter himself says that almost a third of the divorce is conflicting and that there are children in a sensitive age and there must be a lot of concern. There are a number of questions here that have not provided the answer from the special custody center, then the mediation. And in that part, I'm going to repeat again that it's an irreparable pity that the family centers have been abolished with that intention, let's say rationalization is now being founded here. Family centers have had significant results precisely in terms of this pre-divorce consultation, etc. And now to start again with some new formula that really is one experiment that is unserious and not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79519	The answer to Nancy Tyrell's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79520	Thank you. We agree colleagues, we fully agree, experimentation is not good because I personally think that we don't really have much time for any experimenting, especially not in the situation and divorce of marriages that are more and more each day and of those agonys through which especially underage children go through in this process where parents punish each other right through these children. That part there is well done to protect this child, but the vast majority of this law does not contribute to good, and it is always a factor for us to be human. We now have phenomenal situations and beautiful situations where parents agree on how to take care of a child, where there really is no need for any mediator, where there is no need for any intervention of the social work centre because parents and one and the other in the first place are children and they want to care about that child, and because they can't live together, they have parted but are still quality and good parents to their child. However, such divorces are becoming less and less. There's more to it, there's even some kind of statistic that tells us about why people are getting more and more apart. It is normal for us to experience problems and property benefits and who will remain in the apartment, who will get out of the apartment, and there is a problem where children suffer as collateral victims of their own parents. I know the centre needs to be intervened, but what you're saying about family centres is why we've abolished them when they're just them, continuing some sort of continuity of their work, to improve them in infrastructure, and to improve them in the capacities of the people, to improve them with the experts, could be much faster than someone who's already organized to start doing all this that this law wants to start implementing, and not that we're going to start all over again.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79521	Sun Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79522	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Tyrelli, I'll look back on only two things. One refers to family mediation, so Article 331. He says the family mediator is an impartial, neutral and particularly educated person who is included in the family mediators' register. My question is, in fact, how can we appeal to the neutrality of mediators in family matters who are also employed in the welfare system. So first I'm going to say something about those in the welfare system, so it's to be expected that the mediators are employees of the center. When it is known that welfare centres are state institutions, they are interlinked, the social care centre is also authorised to launch measures to protect the interests of children and to express measures. So my question is what's the difference with the actual intervention so far, given the people who are scheduled to carry it out. And the other thing you warned about, is when family mediation is conducted by family mediators, so employees in the welfare system, it's free, so there's no fee, we can say free. And if family mediation, as set out in Article 343, other family mediators carry out the costs of their participation by the party. I think it's a bit of a discriminatory decision because it turns out if you're rich, if you have money, you'll be able to hire a private mediator, if you don't have a turn, and when you come to God's order that will get rid of your case, and who knows when you'll get in line and we'll create another waiting list, I hope you're not as busy as our health system. And another thing, the final proposal introduces a special custody centre, counterpart Milinkovic said something about it. So why are we actually setting up a new facility when we know that we were told that due to rationalization, family centers were actually abolished. So I don't know how much of this will actually be available to children and be in the interest of the family.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79523	Replication response, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79524	Thank you. Here's a thank you for the replica. So we agree on a lot of things. There opens another question of these mediators. So employees who are currently at the social care center as far as I understand them just have to go through education for mediators or go through some kind of education, have passed. We have them at the welfare center where the mediation went. Which prevents them from opening their own private mediator once tomorrow, I don't know what I'm going to call it, an office, what it's going to be, a company, a craftsman, I don't know what you'd call it. So as a state, we invest in people, we finance them, we train them so that we can enforce laws, and then these people after a few months because the same law made it possible for them, because it made it possible for them not to think at all and to go into controversy about it, they go to privates without spending any lip or any kuna on their training, unlike many other people who were not able to pass a free course or education for the mediator, so that they could also open something that again allowed them to do so. These are extremely dangerous situations, suitable for certain individuals, and that's what's on the trail at the right time to be in the right place. Full of beards. It's dangerous, it's not good, and it's going to hit us in the head because it has absolutely nothing to do with the well-being of children that we're talking about, but it only has to do with the well-being of certain impediment and the sale of information to someone at the right time what needs to be done and where to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79525	On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79526	Thank you very much, Vice President. Reputed deputy ministers, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs. This is a second-reading Family Law. The HDSSB club in first reading given the importance of this law, we said in an announcement that public debates will be held on this issue. On announcements that we have time for certain legal gaps in this law we let it go in the first reading because before us was the time. Today, we believe that this is really mature for the third reading, given the still legal illogicalness and legal voids that will obviously be passed if such a law is passed in the face of major problems. First of all, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister personally advocated this Family Law and not belittled your presence in the Croatian Parliament we welcome it. We believe that the minister should be here today because it is a law of great importance for the Republic of Croatia but also for the area which regulates and this is family law, family-law relations as something that should not have an absolute political dimension in terms of whether this law proposes a left or right side here in the Croatian Parliament. It's about the law, the depth of the problem and the weight we need to reach a consensus on. Unfortunately, we also see that these issues cannot be done and that certain clean political messages depend on whether there is a party in power in Croatia or a coalition that supports a different policy compared to the previous ones, it all comes down to the same. We think 10 years has been a long time since the last law. This is life law, and life changes the circumstances in which we live, especially if we all point out that we are repeating the protection of the family, and especially the protection of children coming from marriages, or we must be realistic and aware of the extramarital relations and communities in the Republic of Croatia. We advocate that a family that, as well as the highest basic act of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitution enjoys special legal protection, indeed, with such special legal protection and protection. We believe that this is a law that should go into third reading and that the responsible government and government that is currently in the Republic of Croatia should sit with everyone and in certain solutions try to find a way out to make this law applicable and after some majority may no longer have a majority in the Republic of Croatia. It's totally irrelevant and irrelevant. It's important to protect the family and, above all, to protect the children. In our first reading, we said that these proposals were then in the first reading, and now in this second one we fully support the protection of children's rights and the application of international obligations. But in some solutions not to repeat ourselves here today compared to the first reading, absolutely nothing has changed. The abolition of family centres in a way that the family centre did not propose this government but the former government. It's the same for you, we can compare it to the public contractors where we brought it together, and then said that something was wrong, that it wasn't good, and that it would be different. It's still going its own way, but it's not the subject of this law. In this section, if any of the proposals were good, and it came from the former government or the former governments, it's absolutely irrelevant. It should not be abolished and destroyed for the sake of interest primarily of families and children simply because it was a proposal from the Government that exercised power before the HDZ Government. It's totally irrelevant. I think that the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister, if she really wanted to pass a quality law in her term, and this is too much to bear, is too much of a question that she wants to regulate with this legal solution. It will simply be the people who need to implement this, and at this point they are not sufficiently educated for this, not demeaning anyone's profession, simply eliminating family centres is not good, and it is the wrong political decision, the solution. It should simply continue to seek consensus on these issues, which are primarily of the crucial national interest of the Republic of Croatia. We are not talking here about whether in this legislative solution and the final draft of the law there are some issues that are not good. There is, if we are to discuss the protection of the interests of children and the application of international conventions and obligations that Croatia has undertaken both as a member of the EU and as a country that is a protection of the family, and we have had the opportunity to discuss this many times in the Assembly. That really needs to be supported. And if you're going to go into this directly as it is now, and not asking for a consensus about certain misunderstandings in this law and the gaps that are going to appear, that's not good. First of all, it is not good for Croatia to pass a law that will selectively enter into force. In certain provisions we go at 7 months, there we go at 9. We'll do it one way or another. This creates legal uncertainty and total execution in application. One thing that social work centres will do, is what courts will apply, and one thing that will really be experienced by families and, above all, by children in the divorce of marriages, by asking whether the child will be with the father or mother and those legal consequences that have great uncertainty for the family that we, under quote, want to protect. We propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that we all try to find a consensus together, because this is not good. It's just not gonna be good and we can't support it as a serious and responsible party and club. As for the abolition of family centres and the introduction of this new special custody centre, I think we could have talked about that really wasn't necessary. In the first reading, it's not suggested, it's now. Do we have enough financial resources? We are witnessing the situation in the Republic of Croatia, the recession we still do not have. Do we have enough educated persons who will be able to take over all this burden at the social care centres that we don't have right now, and we need to ask those people who are working directly on these problems whether what is proposed is applicable and whether this burden that puts this law on them will be able to really protect the family as we all stand here. I also note that in this section when it comes to other issues of this law, if we wanted certain things to be kept as good, if we're going this way we won't be able to do it. We support the protection of the fundamental rights of persons with disabilities. That's good in this text of the law. The protection of persons with disabilities under this legal solution is indeed in line with international standards and with the UN Convention on the Protection of Persons with Disabilities. At this point, Croatia has about 18,000 people deprived of their business skills and more than 16000 completely deprived of their business skills. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that the number of elderly ones, which is often associated with disability, is growing more and more as mankind’s age grows and the average human life span. That's what we're witnessing in the Republic of Croatia. In my view, in this and in our club HDSSB, the legal proposal has taken a step in a more humane approach to older people and persons with disabilities, above all, by abolishing the Institute of Full Disabilities, so that it will never happen again in the Croatian legal system that one person legal person is deprived of his or her ability under some accelerated procedure without additional skill and verification. This means that judges and witches will have to make more efforts to assess segments where a person is unable to take care of himself and limit it only in that part and the guardian would be present only in that part to help a person with disabilities in making his own decisions and would exceptionally make decisions instead only in exceptional situations. Therefore, not a priority to be resolved without special skill to a person who is deprived of his business ability to fully decide on some important issues. These proposals concerning the legal conditions that all persons who are now completely deprived of their business capacity in the next 5 years are being re-skilled, this is now a matter to discuss, first of all, whether there are sufficient financial resources to implement such skills. But it wouldn't be worse if there were financial resources, and we can see that there aren't any today, because really someone permanently solves their business skills without further skill might actually be bordering on the fundamental human rights of the person whose rights are being abolished. As regards the Institute of Anticipated Commands, it is therefore that a mentally sound person is entitled until he is possibly ill to establish a public record and express his wishes in the event of an evil, in the case of his own disability, for example, if it is about who his guardian is and who, in the event of her death, should be the guardian of a child who is therefore deprived of certain rights or unfortunately died. We see this as a good legal solution because everything in life is happening, we are witnessing these problems in families and in the community in which we live around us. These are solutions which, therefore, in this part of the law can be supported. To get back to the beginning, if we're really going to talk about not repeating what we said in the first reading. There are certain amendments here that have arrived from the SDP and HNS club without coalition partners who form part of the government that is currently acting in power in Croatia. It is obvious that there is no agreement in the coalition on certain issues, which is primarily adoption of children. We call therefore on the parliamentary majority and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to have this legislative final proposal go into third reading, to have certain legal gaps concerning the protection of children's interests, adoptions, protection of persons with disabilities, protection of persons whose business capacity has been abolished and certain legal gaps which are in this final text of the law too much to try to seek consensus, not to go into partial entry into force of certain parts of the law, and that this family law, in the proposal that we make, will not depend on whether it is proposed by the left or right government, left or right-hand side of the Parliament, but rather that it will benefit first of all those to whom it applies, which are families, children, protection of the interests of children and all those who need to have a quality law that will have real life in real Croatia. Because if we don't change the law the way life teaches and carries us, in a way that different families are in different circumstances whether it's father or mother in trouble, then we're on the wrong track and we're running politics over the back of those who really shouldn't feel it, which is families. Let us return to the Constitution and to the highest legal act, which is that the family has special protection of the Republic of Croatia, which should not depend on which government is currently acting as government in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79527	Thank you. counterpart Nada Murganić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79528	My dear colleague, I want to replicate to you in the part where you said that family centres were abolished for reasons, and I realized one of the reasons is because they were somehow formed as institutions and institutions during the HDZ government. Well, it really comes from this first and second reading all over this debate, and it's very easy to see, and it can finally be concluded. Family centres as prevention institutions, such as institutions and institutions that were able to carry out this mediation quite well and uninterruptedly, which is now emerging as a problem, are being abolished. We are passing a family law that creates and changes a significant family policy and we have abolished an institution like this. Family centers, or their employees, have moved to the Centre for Social Work. That's good. The centers were sub-opacted with the personnel and certainly welcome them. However, social work centres cannot conduct mediation, they are in conflict of interest and it is clear to all regardless of what is said and says that they have passed some kind of course, education. They won't get a license, they can't be mediators, authorized mediators talk to you, and recently now they're studying at the postgraduate college for social work studies. So it will be mediators who will be able to do the mediation. That's how it's gonna be then and in accordance with this law. And the fact that the family centres because of the rationalization of the gasses aren't really standing. Because really, every time we pass a new law right now along with that law, it pops up like a hat or some kind of institution or some kind of mall that's very expensive and very centralized institutions and the question is how much they're going to cost.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79529	Replication response, Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79530	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, I fully agree with you. It is simple today in Croatia so that everyone is against something and against someone, and no one is ever good for what should be good for our country, for our families and for our people. It doesn't matter whether the proposal came from the right or left if it's the one he's referring to, which is in this case the family and the children who came from those families. And all those problems that face such difficult circumstances when a marriage divorce occurs, for example, if someone came to power in Croatia, promising something new, something better and different, if politics is going to break over the back of family centres and people who I consider knowingly and honestly should do their job first and foremost on protecting family and their families, if after a year a political spear is going to break, then totally our country is going in the wrong direction. First of all, there was unnecessary abolition, there wasn't enough money, there weren't enough educated people and the problem remained and just piled up, the problems of our families. That is what we should talk about, and not just politics here in the Croatian Parliament this should be said by the Church regardless of what religion it was about. This should include more local communities, and cities, and counties. and the municipalities. We know very well where we live, depending on where our families are, who has problems, how they should be helped. There was simply no room for political revenge in this because it was totally stupid and totally wrong. There are no smart left and right, there are only those who need and want good for Croatia and on the basis of election promises that it will be better, that we bring something that is better quality, more accessible for those to whom it applies, if it is not so wrong, so let it be right, let it be left, then it is not good for who it refers. And we're against it, and we're not going to support what's conflicting with the interest above all our families.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79531	Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79532	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear fellow Salapic, I fully agree with you that we would really have to try to reach a consensus on such a law. It hasn't even been tried since the first reading, I'm afraid it won't happen now. The law is bad, we have suggested a third reading although once again I want to repeat it, personally I find it irreparable but as a wish to meet different thoughts third reading might be some chance to at least make them the biggest failures of repairs. However, on the trail of what you said, it is not good that such important laws concerning a number of people, their happiness, their families, their children, are brought only by the power of most hands, regardless. And what then, and then again after the next election, we're gonna change it all over again, so that's nonsense, that's just not good. What you mentioned in a positive sense, I can only accept somewhat, and that is the question that there is no longer a sequence of this law of full depravity, although the Convention on the Protection of Persons with Disabilities states. However, it's not good how he's being hyper-stimulated because without exception, it just doesn't make sense. We'll have to, predict exceptions because, for example, Which means if we had somehow with a highly advanced Alzheimer's disease, say, or in a permanent coma how he would then be deprived partly of all business abilities. Therefore, such things must be predicted in advance because it is not good when we look at only some aspect and we seem to have taken a step forward, and that is simply because we have not seen all aspects of a particular problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79533	Josip Salapic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79534	The Honorable Vice President as regards the abolition of the Institute of Full Disposal of Business Capability, it is on the verge of a more humane approach to such persons, international conventions of solution. That is why it is necessary to seek this consensus and third reading, I agree that there should be exceptions and that not all cases are the same, but the direction in which this wish is considered good, but exceptions should exist is true. Also, as for the people who are today, it can happen to each of us healthy, so I can decide who will take care of me if I can't do it anymore, I also find it positive. Now, because of this avoidance of consensus, we have come into a situation where something that is good in this law cannot be supported because a certain political worldview wants to push itself through certain legal gaps into a law that is insane. And it's about having to be an opposition, we have to be against it, and in some parts of the law we should really be about. And that's why in laws like this that have nothing to do with politics, you have to look for consensus, then you get weight, on seriousness, at the true will of what is currently in power, it's today SDP, tomorrow it can be someone else, somebody else doesn't matter, it's what we want to achieve with this. I object to the fact that laws change too often, there are certain laws that need to have strength and there are certain laws that are lifelike, that is this family law, that is a living being, that are families, in any case we are not doing the same thing and we cannot do the same in all cases. If we had sought consensus in Croatia and on this issue and any other issues that have been raised in recent months, there would be no such evil blood in the world in which we live and in the streets, in our people. If we were to say it's hard for us, it's hard for us and we'd all share it, but it's not working because we're still in the past. If we lived for tomorrow, it would be much better for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79535	Jadranka Kosor replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79536	Thank you very much. My colleague Salapić, I am glad that you mentioned as many others so far, the family centers and expressed regret that they were abolished, so it finally offered me, since many nice words were spoken about family centres, and it was mentioned that they were originally my projects as family ministers and my ministry. But as you know, because they talked about politics here, and the political context, even the family centers didn't help. So it was good projects, it was a great decision and I'm very sorry, I think it was the wrong decision by this government to abolish the Ministry of the Family. Because the Family Ministry is much wider than what social care involves. Every family or family may never reach the welfare center but family care is necessary and must be daily. In this debate, I think that actually so far many are suppressing something called the real name of prejudice, and when it comes to constitutional categories of family protection, exactly, but child protection. Children are under special protection of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, therefore, when adopted, I return to that distinction of extramarital communities, or marriage, often only extremely hypocritical. Because I think that a community of men and women who are going to adopt a child, whether they've legalized it or not, if it's consistent, if the child is going to grow up bathed in love is good, unlike some marriages, or I dare tell myself a lot of lies, a lot of infidelity, a lot of lovers and lovers, etc., we speak openly and then of course it's not true that children adopted in such a community will be much better off than if they are adopted by people who want to have a parenting but do not want to get married. Therefore, I return to the Constitutional categories, or the Constitution that says very clearly, in the first place the welfare of children and the protection of children and then, of course, the adoption, and we have heard many times in this... Thank you. I'll continue in another replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79537	Thank you. Thank you very much. Josip Salapic, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79538	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Mrs. Kosor, it is true that you have said that there are different families, different problems in marriages that are made public, but there are these micro environments, there are very well known which families are in trouble, and especially when it comes to domestic violence that we have not been able to discuss right now, which is one of the issues where we need to seek special protection of the state and now some suggestions that are being made to amendments may not be bad when it comes to domestic violence and marriages that are problematic, and they are hiding behind the sacred weight of marriage, and there is a law that needs to be strengthened. In my view, in Croatia it is a normal state, it is a law that should be drawn up in some political frameworks and you were family ministers and you also had something to say about this problem when it was professionally discussed the drafts and proposals and this text of the law that is before us today. This does not exist for us, that this is about family, that it is about finance, there are people who are sitting in the Assembly today who might be able to make a contribution to some solutions that do not need to grind a policy of good for Croatia, regardless of what they used to be, it is irrelevant. It's not a place where someone sits holy chairs for the rest of their lives, but... it has to be, radiated by ability, expertise and the ultimate goal of every law of ours should be to protect what the law applies to. It's not in these cases. I don't agree with the fact that anyone's worldview is being pushed over the back of our families and Croatian peoples, if we're going to protect the family, we're going to protect, if we're going to protect children, if we're going to give, if we want to have a choice to live differently and we have to let it because only a fool in time today... we come and we're a member of the EU, we need... someone who's different from us, but the protection of the family that, the extramarital community existed before this law, but every extramarital community is not the same. And that should be regulated by special arrangements, and I agree with that, once again, this should go into third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79539	Then follow the Rules of Procedure. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79540	Thank you, Madam Vice President. As well as many speakers in this House today, you have repeatedly stressed special care and care for children, and many have always called for the Convention on the Rights of the Child and on many other regulations, and in reality the situation is completely different and very difficult, not to mention those moments of accommodation in preschool institutions and schooling and all other moments that... Also with families, and there has been a lot of talk about it, and now this law, of course, that should absolutely keep it safe, seems to me in some way that this law is aimed at resolving the legal consequences of divorce, that is to say, the end of the family community, and it gives up trying to keep the family together, so the goals of compulsory divorce counseling are. It is also indisputable that today we are in a time of severe economic crisis, that numerous families are facing the inconceivable and that, of course for the consequence, many are falling apart. And in that part, I also particularly welcome your thinking about the importance of family centres that have achieved exceptional results with the purpose of preserving the family, especially about caring for those younger, for adolescents and in that part it is truly an irreparable pity that these family centres have been abolished, and now it goes with a certain, here with special centres for special care, etc. That won't do you any good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79541	Replication response, Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79542	Thank you. Dear Representative, special custody centers in that regard may be yes, but not in this way that it's state level, then we should have at least a regional level to be five, if we're going to spread it to the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. If this is going to be just one, it's not good. Second, as far as trying to preserve the family, we had a prior law to keep still, an attempt to calm down, so unfortunately there are certain family relationships that cannot be reconciled. It's about family alcoholism issues, it's about domestic violence, it's about something simple you can't keep. The intention of the state to preserve marriage as a whole, as a community of men and women, especially if they are that marriage... the children are positive, but the attempt to rest, and I know it firsthand, the people who did it, happens to be even more creating conflicts... because one of the marriage partners simply isn't normal. It is prone to certain vices in life and has no feelings for children nor for marriage nor for what should have been the function of that marriage. Well, I agree with the thesis that the state needs to intervene and help maximum. And I repeat that, and here I am sure that you agree, when this is all over and when some time comes where it will be normal to talk about everything, that a special role should be played by the local community, certain powers to be given by the state, that it particularly takes care of families facing certain problems, whether they are the nature of domestic violence, whether they are the nature of being financially in a weak position because Croatia must help everyone, not when a national disaster happens to us now in Slavonia but always. Because this is exactly where we should always be, all together if we want good to Croatia. And here I'm sure we can all agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79543	Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79544	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Salapic, I agree with you that the laws are alive and that it is very good if consensus can be reached especially with the law, and most of them are touched by all. But I don't think we can get a consensus like this. You said it was because the right hand side brought it to the end of the family centers. We can't agree with that, of course, because they've been abolished as legal entities, so they don't have their own director, and they become founding units in welfare centres, and you know that over 70% of the cases are essentially referred to in the centers from the family centres being sent from the welfare center. Some family centers did excellent work while they existed, but someone failed to fulfill their true role. In this way, it is essentially possible for all those family center workers to do their job even better, to do their job, to prevent. In this way, the family centers from that curative role they played the most, and now they get an even more preventive role that they should have. In this way, I feel that there will be even more quality in preventing what is going on in the protection of both family and children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79545	Replication response, Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79546	Dear MPs, God forbid, there's nothing to argue about. So if it really was so that the family center had to be abolished, and that the social care centre was ready to assume these responsibilities and powers that have passed through the abolition of family centres, then we offer our hand if it doesn't matter if it's going to be called a family center or a care center or a child protection centre or a family centre, and it won't be a family center. It's not a name thing, it's a whole thing, and it's eating that move really made better, it's going to show practice. That's why I said this is a life law that changes as such as a living being and adapts to the circumstances in which our families are presently located. That's the point of that story, I compared it to public contractors, remember these problems. And there are other facts that can't collapse. We have various agencies that some former governments had in the Croatian system, so when this government came, it was reported, and in the meantime, the number of agencies now at the same level as before. I was just talking about what should be fundamentally our common interest in Croatia, which is that in some of the problems ahead we try to find consensus. Then there wouldn't be any low blows. Now we are in a situation where we have some solutions that are good and that need urgent change and some things that we disagree on. Not because we feel we don't need to talk, but we're going to listen to everyone, and even those who were once ex-in something, and they're professionally ruling that matter, that's when it would be better. And when the elections come, citizens best know who's more likable, who doesn't, who better leads Croatia, or this is now totally irrelevant. But these are topics where you really need to talk about it like that. There's more, but for comparison, it's always when it comes to power, then everything that the former said is no good, and then it's going to step on over some people. That's where we put some kind of protection for a certain person who's been acting high-ranking for that very principle, her, just like that. There are people who are professionally well-intentioned to respect that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79547	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Ljiljana Cvetović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79548	Dear vice president, respected deputy ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The HSU Club has some objections to the provisions of the final proposal of the Family Law. We believe that Article 36. should be deleted which reads "that the law of co-ownership of property referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article should be implemented on the basis of the contractual proposal of spouses which contains an explicit written and unconditional statement which one spouse agrees to register the right of co-ownership of another spouse in equal parts or otherwise if they have responded so". It is unclear in paragraph 4. what will happen if there is no agreement proposal. Whether long and unnecessary court proceedings remain in such cases in order to establish the matrimonial property. Paragraph 4 provides for what has been implemented in practice and without this proposal for a legal solution, as marriage partners have been able to sign up as co-owners so far, this provision does not constitute a special paper. It is more appropriate to enable co-ownership to be entered on a marriage partner’s proposal, with a view to the presentation of the marriage list, because if the other partner wants to bring down the co-ownership’s presummation in half, it is possible to react in the appeal procedure. It is prescribed in Article 88 that a child who has been 14 years of age who, according to his doctor’s assessment, is mature enough to decide on a preventive diagnostic or therapeutic procedure related to his health or treatment may consent to a review, search or medical procedure on his own. In the case of a medical procedure related to the risks of serious consequences for the physical or mental health of a patient child with the consent of a child referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the approval of a child’s parents or other legal representative shall also be required. In the event of a dispute between the child and the parents concerning the taking of a medical procedure referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, a decision shall be taken by the court in a non-partisan procedure. We believe that children of that age are not mature enough to decide without parents to go into surgery, diagnostic or therapeutic procedure because 14-year-olds are too young to decide such complex things on their own and when the wrong decision can have a significant impact on the future health of the child. This would automatically mean a possibility, for example, to refuse casts after fractures, which is by no means correct. If a doctor is given the right to assess the maturity of a person at that age, parents should be involved. This provision of the law is unarranged, it is not clear what medical procedures are involved and what further provisions of the law provide child health care for the basic content of parental care. In Article 185, which reads: “Children can adopt mates, together, one mate if the other mate is a parent or adoptor of a child, one mate with the consent of another mate, extramarital partners, and a single person who is not married.". The law provides for the possibility for a child to be adopted by marriage mates, one of his or her single mates, and the person who is not married but who is not intended to adopt an out - of - wedlock partner. The provision directly discriminates against out-of-marriage partners based on marital status and puts them in an unequal position. Although it is a family made up of two long-lived partners in a stable family community, it also prescribes the provision of Article 11 of the Law. The adoption is a form of family care and is based on respect for the welfare of the child. If, for the child's benefit, it has no justification for their right to be denied only because of the form of a family community in which they live, because it is essential in the extramarital communities to the family community to the same extent as marriage. It is indisputable for a child to live in a family regardless of the form of such a family. By not allowing extramarital partners the right to adopt is logically the right to give it to an individual. Where the provisions of Article 11 are concerned, The law stipulates that its provisions apply also to an extramarital community that lasts at least three years and is shorter if a common child is born in it or if it is continued by marriage and if the adoption procedure is carried out by the Social Care Centre under the rules of the administrative procedure and if the professional staff determines the similarity of the adoptors there is no obstacle to examining and determining all circumstances and facts of importance for the adoption by the extramarital partners. In Article 260(2), we propose a erasure which reads as follows: "The court's decision referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article is not necessary if the protégé has, at the time of his commercial ability, drawn up a public note in which he decides on the matters referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article.". In accordance with Article 260, paragraph 1 provides that only a court may, according to a proposal from a protégé or custodian, make a solution to the protégé of pregnancy, sterilisation, donation of tissues and organs, participation in biomedical research, life-support measures. In paragraph 2, the court’s approval is not necessary if the protégé is a protégé, at a time when he has been able to draw up a public record in which he decides on the matters referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. The legislator does not respect the possibility of changing circumstances or the possibility that such a statement could have been substantially changed from the date on which such a statement was made and that the declarant knew about them could not or could not have made such a statement. The legislator does not even respect the possibility that the applicant has changed his position. Such a provision allowing life-support measures to be taken without the court's approval or consent of the Social Care Centre or any control to introduce euthanasia to Croatian legislation on persons deprived of their business capacity. In Article 417, this article, which reads that the procedures in which a child’s personal relationship with a parent is to be decided, is to warn parents that the achievement of a child’s personal relationship with a parent is of special importance to the child’s well-being. Then encourage parents to reach an agreement and participate in the family mediation process, except in cases of domestic violence if the agreement referred to in point 2 of this paragraph is missing, to make sure that the place where personal relations with the child are to be achieved is neutral and appropriate for the child taking into account the actual spatial and time options of the parent who has the right to have personal relations with the child. The Court’s decision must also contain detailed information on the way, time and takeover and return to the child. We believe that Article 147 of the prescribed duty of the Court to encourage parents to participate in the process of family mediation and to reach agreement and in cases of partner violence, which is in conflict with other provisions of the draft law and international agreements which bind the Republic of Croatia. It is proposed to delete the provision contained in paragraph 3 of the bill, the court will introduce a written warning on the legal consequences of non-compliance with the obligation, enabling the achievement of personal relations with the child, the possibility of giving a fine of 30 thousand kuna, the possibility of giving a prison sentence from one day to 6 months and the possibility of... decisions he and his parents will live on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The provision is completely inappropriate to family legal situations and may not belong to it in the Family Law. Disrespect of court decisions is a criminal offence and is subject to criminal responsibility. In addition to the above, failure to comply with the obligation to have personal relations with a child may constitute psychological violence and be subject to the application of the Law on Protection against Family Violence. A fine of 30 000 kuna and a prison sentence of up to 6 months is not an appropriate approach to a sensitive family problem. The law on protection against domestic violence as well as the Penal Code against the offences committed against a family member does not contain as high a penalty as is proposed by this law. For example, the Law on protection against domestic violence for physical violence, physical punishment, mental violence, sexual violence, etc. prescribes a 90-day prison sentence and significantly less fines. In practice, perpetrators often manipulate institutions and claim that they are not allowed to see a child and that former partners manipulate children when children refuse to contact. It is about persons who do not come to court for certain contacts, while at the same time launching executive proceedings to hand over the child and file criminal and criminal charges. It takes time until the courts discover that it is manipulation, and such a legal solution during that time will materially and perhaps also be punished by prison by another partner. In 90%, that other partner is a woman. Why are not the same penalties prescribed for non-payment of abstention or those of parents who do not regularly make contact with children and which is why the Family Law prescribes prison or monetary penalties when this matter is regulated by the Penal Code and the Law on Protection against Family Violence. Since there are very large polemics and a lot of objections to this Family Law the Croatian Party of Retired would suggest that it would be good to maybe go to third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79549	Thank you. Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79550	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So, dear colleagues of Cvetovic, you too have made one whole series of remarks very serious about this law by proposing to go into third reading. I'll repeat, we think he's incorrigible but the third reading at least is less evil than being accepted like this. In fact, between the whole series of remarks, you pointed out the problem, and if a child refuses to, say, draw blood or remove the stains, for example. which is some kind of minor procedure, and it can certainly have a meaning for health because then, following this so-disputed article, the Court of Justice should actually take a decision on the out-of-party procedure. Well, it's really bizarre that if a child refuses to draw blood to then go to court and then the court will decide whether or not to draw blood from a child with a fever. But in a whole series of non-implementable decisions, some of you have mentioned, let's say, one is related to the Centre for Social Care, which is based on adoption and which contains the provision of a new personal identification number to be entered into the Matrix of the born if necessary in order to protect the child's rights and interests. However, Article 9 does not provide for a change in the number of citizens and personal identification numbers to be entered in the Matica of the born. Thus, this article is totally inadmissible to this law. Those could be listed as a whole now, but some of you mentioned it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79551	We're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79552	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The esteemed deputy minister with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The proposal for family law, including this Final Bill of Family Law, has caused, which is quite understandable because we all live in a family, a lot of public interest, and it's good that it is. And the fiercest and most cruel opponents of any change, and I'll say that later in my debate, you as proponents have nothing to do with the care and welfare of the child. It is said that this law will be difficult to implement, that it was only necessary to change the existing one, possibly amend the existing Family Law. Some speak, and they are in great care for those marriage partners who are going to divorce, that only this mediation will be extended, that faster-better people now turn-on divorce because it will become very complicated for them afterwards. You see, through these criticisms you should actually see, although they are not aware of it, although they are not aware of it, one is essentially supporting it in some way, even though it is indirect, and that is exactly what the promoter is, and I believe that we will support it, which is the basic meaning of the law and what is the main intensity to protect children. No one is objecting to you, and that is the greatest value of this law, and no one can dispute that, and then they give a flat rate. On many of the questions that have been asked here, I know it's not easy to read, I've dealt with this for 20 years, and on two occasions by 5-6 hours I've studied it, so many of the answers that have been put here exist in the law and just as many have criticized it. It's not easy to read it, but it's an extensive law as it should be. We today talk about this final proposal of the Family Law where the basic purpose and purpose is primarily the responsibility of parents versus children, especially when marriage is getting divorced because when marriage is not getting divorced, when they are idyllic orbearable relationships then there are no such problems. Although many things have only just become controversial even though they may have been before. But, well, everyone knows that especially those who have dealt with this problem in practice most. So, we are discussing the final proposal of the Family Law at the moment when a certain Mrs. Raisma, for the second time, marches Croatia and spreads through our universities, through the universities of immense lies which she does not only insult the Government but all of us here and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It's just unbearable and I'm just wondering in which country you could spread such lies and harassing primarily parents and innocent children, and don't touch children. This kind of procedure where it's said that masturbation is taught in kindergartens and that they're encouraged to do so, so it's too scary. And we have to talk about it here without banning anyone from speaking but bearing responsibility for the public statement. When we talk about the final proposal of this Family Law, which is why the intensity is precisely on the protection of children. Let us remember a little bit in 1978 when the Law on Marriage and Family Relations was passed in Croatia. It was a time when it was necessary to equalise the position of men and women in marriage in all aspects of life. For the first time, we have a mate who was able to decide on his place of residence on his own, but just as it was most important for his profession, his profession, his interest in many other status issues. Croatia has put pride in it. And then it is no wonder that many and later amendments to the law went on the trail that Croatia was simply a leader in relations between partners. However, in all of this, we did not ignore it in any way, but it was simply attention to them, and children were kind of like pertinence. It was seen in practice, therefore, that parents who love their children most, at least that's what they say and I believe they want to do and that they unwittingly do it when they're hurt in marriage, use their own children for each other's reckonings, and that's what should have ended. The existing law and norms that regulated it were not enough. Why are we saying that? Because that's what practice simply showed. The sufferings that children had to endure are terrible. Well, just to remind you it wasn't such a rare case that when it comes to taking a child by court, these others are most often these men climb up to the sky and threaten to take away a child that he and the child will jump from the sky. The authorized bodies would withdraw and no one would have anything, without any sanctions. Is that what we're going to put up with? We can understand the indignation, the emotions. But when it comes to children, it is not the right way, nor should it be tolerated and tolerated by such low passions and such accounts when it comes to their own children, let alone when it comes to other people's children, when it comes to discussing other people's children. And the responsible authorities can't allow it. But what does it encourage? It also comes from the parents' responsibility. I say as much as they get hurt and rightly and be even victims of violence they have no right to teach children hate, teach or speak against another parent. There are authorities who will take care of it. And so, as long as it was before the intensity of equality she was preserved, but here's the accent right on responsibility. Before we talk about parental law, today we need to talk about parental duty, and about children's rights, the weakest ones, and see how to make the law as good as possible. To talk about that mediation, because that's what many practitioners pointed out, and even some experts, even though this is exactly the bill, eventually the profession put it together, but of course the policy has determined that there must be children at the heart of the event. So, that the mediation will extend, and let it continue. The one who gets married where children are born has a new responsibility. He is not just in relation to his former mate above all to the children. Because we see where there aren't any kids who want to get divorced, there's no need to name any reason. But where children are and irresponsible colleagues and colleagues claim to give up. That's it, that's it, here's my colleague Reiner said it. Later on, we sort of solved it a little bit, but some other colleague of yours here now I don't see it anymore, and I won't say it again as the bird repeats and says here and literally reads giving up on the family sticking together. It does not give up, where there are underage children trying to also make it possible to see, since especially younger couples of course are unprepared for everything that happens in marriage, so they are both hasty and so on. And there have been attempts especially with younger couples, so that you, that these counsellings make sense and that, after all, the marriage is held. But where a marriage cannot be maintained, it must be directed towards protecting children and, yes, strengthening the responsibility of parents. So much for that. As for individual norms, I can say that it is right here, so that is visible, so we can also see through the amendments to the other committees, as well as the Committee on Legislatives. There are a number of amendments that are not just nomotechnical in nature that have been proposed and where the government's representative said they are quite acceptable and that they will be adopted, that for the ministry, they are not at all reluctant to the government. Many have mentioned this, not as far as this is concerned, if you have read some of these amendments to the Legislative Committee, you will see that some of the recommendations, especially the nomotechnical nature, these issues, some indetermination, some of the ambiguities where these things are explained. What I see especially What I see is particularly interesting, which is that it is also taken into account in terms of the development of medical sciences, that men and women come into the same position in challenging motherhood, paternity, definition of mother and father. [[Break Zgrebec: Bring your colleagues to the end.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79553	Thank you. Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79554	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, distinguished MPs, I'm gonna talk about the subject, I'm not gonna talk about teachers who teach lectures, I like them or I don't like what they're saying, I'm gonna talk about the subject. So unfortunately, this law will not solve a part of what you mentioned that someone climbs the sky and threatens to throw themselves down. Of course that law won't solve it. So let's talk about what he's talking about. And to be constructive, here's a proposal. Therefore, Articles 41, 42 regulate the conclusion of a marriage contract, and why can only the parties to that contract be mates? Because the subject matter of the contract can be property-legal relations on future assets, so here's why the possibility of such a contract being concluded by the fiancées who, for example, are not mentioned in this legislative proposal at all. So, prenup. Why could the Family Law not legalize a premarital contract to govern the property-legal relations of marriage mates in one way that would actually arrange the area? For example, if we do a whole series of things in marriage and after marriage solves ourselves, then let's take a step and work things out in advance, before we get married, allow them to get rid of it. Here, just one remark. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79555	Replication response, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79556	So we have a marriage contract that speaks exactly how property-legal relations can be arranged. Yeah, well, as far as the prenup is concerned, I think it could have been solved. But I don't think he should be so obsessed with movie stars, wealth, who's going to leave who, who's going to leave millions for that. We are here on our ground and where we are talking about our intensity to get rid of property, or property, or property, in a fair way. And the great progress that has been incorporated into our Family Law even before, this new one explains it, in the fact that one presumption that the property of the spouses has been acquired in equal parts. It is not disputed and it is not disputed what they have entered into marriage, it is also repeated here, that it is their special property, that special property is what a single spouse inherits. And if someone wants to argue that it's not because someone has contributed much more, someone much less, then they're going to have to do it in a lawsuit specifically and prove it. These are just ones and I think especially for partners, and especially for a woman much better solutions than they were boredom.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79557	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79558	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleagues of Anticevic-Marinović thank you very much for trying to teach us how to read this law to understand it. Thank you for trying to open our eyes but to be honest after this interpretation of yours, I feel like someone hit me with a fist and closed both my eyes. So you didn't particularly convince me, and I'm going to use your words that you often used to mention in this House of Highs, you've defended indefensiblely. I know it's your need and that you're defending it, but you've never been able to convince me that without a certain logistics that you can do so. The second thing, we noticed that the deputy minister herself said these special custody centres wouldn't perform immediately. It's not a simple and easy job. And not to mention that mediation that many colleagues have talked about today. I will repeat that the family centers have had very significant results with the purpose of preserving the family, have worked well and quality and that in that part their capacities should have been spent, and not now go experiment and that it is simply not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79559	Replication response, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79560	My dear colleague, I didn't say how to read the law. I just said I should read it. Well, if you'd read it very extensively, it's easier to say it by heart, then you wouldn't say that family centers are being abolished. Family centers remain within the social care centre. That's all he has to read, not shake his hand. That's what it says here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79561	I'm setting a break until 3:00, and the first in line for the debate is my colleague, Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79562	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue our individual debate. Mirela Holly, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79563	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, not very numerous. At the very beginning of the presentation, I would like to say that I will not support this final proposal of the Family Law because I believe it is conservative and that it will not solve the problems that exist in the system. The fundamental question that we must ask after reading this proposal is who needs a new Family Law? The Ministry of Social Policy argues that the new law is necessary because major problems in the custody of adults have been detected because it is stressed that adoption provisions must be improved, easier meeting and association with children, clearer regulation of maintenance provisions, introduce legal certainty in view of the different assumptions and ways of determining the extramarital community, and allow children to participate in the procedures which determine their rights. I think that this law unfortunately does not solve any of these existing issues, or problems. It is also stressed that family procedures take too long, and that co-operation between the court and the Social Care Centre is unsatisfactory. The proposal states that it respects the basic principle of primary responsibility of parents to raise and develop their children and gives the country a subordinate role to intervene in family relations as much as necessary with the protection of children's rights and to encourage a new law to move beyond judicial agreement on the issue of parental care and child restraint, as well as when divorce occurs through family mediation. However, reading the Family Law proposal does not answer the question of why to amend the whole law when it is known that such changes introduce legal uncertainty in application and such confusion is created that courts and centres will stop for the next year with the settlement of cases. Therefore, we cannot be kidnapped in the ORAH by the impression that insisting on its adoption at all costs is already a delayed implementation of cosmetic reform and, of course, there are many problems that exist in the application of the current law and which need to be seriously addressed, some new institutes that are shown to be missing in practice in order to provide better protection and more efficient implementation of family and other procedures. Family law regulates our living situations in our happiest moments, such as, of course, marriage, adoption of a child, but in the saddest, most stressful situations of divorce, fighting for custody of children and so forth. This law determines our rights with children when we get divorced, determines solidarity and help for our grandparents, regulate relations such as the extramarital community, adoption of children and the like. All of these are extremely emotional life-saving things for each individual, so suddenly changing, introducing new institutes, vague and non-transparent provisions, and a huge amount of text, I would like to mention that this final bill has as many as 200 articles, giving rise to fear of how it will apply, that is, how it will affect the lives of our fellow citizens. Although this Family Law is presented as modern, in line with EU standards, this law also introduces in its principles the principle of proportionate and mildest intervention in life. However, in the ORAH, we argue that exactly the opposite of this law of the state is, in a rather inadmissible way, mixed in a series of relationships and rights stemming from the Constitution and other organic laws, and on the other hand, a better regulation of modern and real phenomena in a society that was not so expressive 10 years ago when the current law was passed. In Croatia, over the past 10 years, since this still in force law has seen very much change in family relations, the number of divorces has increased significantly, more than 5600 couples divorced in Croatia last year, the number of extramarital communities of these children born in such communities has increased about 20%. In later years, married couples make up marriages, so that most of them marry their property and the need to regulate marriages, or premarital contracts, is extremely large and very much property acquired on the basis of credits where one mate is a credit bearer, and others are obliged and unfortunately domestic violence against children and women has increased. Compared to these phenomena, we think it is necessary to find a different, better, new regulation, and this law is actually quite old-fashioned and there is no big newspaper. Legal reasons, e.g. For divorce, they remained the same from 10 years ago and are conditioned by proof, and a difficult and permanently disturbed relationship in marriage must not be conditioned by absolutely nothing, and especially by consenting both sides or by the condition that you must be insufferable or that someone does not live with you for a year and only then do you turn to the court. The ORAH considers that the state should provide couples who have problems in marriage with professional assistance and the possibility of consulting through others for those relevant institutes, but all of which is not, of course, subject to the regulation of the Family Law. As I have already mentioned the number of extramarital communities in the past 10 years, especially in the cities, it has become one day-to-day phenomenon, and the most important thing is that more and more children are born in such communities, and in spite of my first reading remarks, it is not specified when no act begins, and the extramarital community ends with the aim of its effective, not just formal, or cosmetic equality with the marriage community, and in particular with the aim of equating other legislation. And the question is also why the extramarital community cannot adopt a child. If these two communities are the same in a legal sense, then there is no obstacle for extramarital couples not to adopt a child. The law states that the aim is to encourage him to deal with the issue of parental care and child restraint through mediation, so that he offers free mediation if he is inside the ministry warning parents of the consequences if they do not agree and so on. The family mediator is an impartial, neutral and specially educated person who is included in the family mediator register. We don't know which profession the mediator is, and we don't know who's responsible for the wrong or unprofessional conduct of the mediation. In fact, when parents fight over childcare whether both parents want a child or that such difficult relationships between parents are just authorized experienced teams of psychiatrists, psychologists, psychotherapists, and social workers can give a professional opinion to whom such a child will be entrusted. These are serious decisions that cannot be implemented by the mediator as if the issue of border or damages were resolved in some minor procedure. Also, the obligation to conduct mandatory consultations or to condition the same with the initiation of divorce proceedings has been completely missed and has so far shown absolutely no results. Namely, we have no information but it would be good to know how many times it's worked out in front of the welfare center between the mates, and our assessment is that it's not even 5%. Therefore, instead of the divorce procedure in which a decision on the rights and obligations of a minor child is finally shown to be effective, or to do something to ensure the efficiency of court proceedings, a professional, quick to take care of the rights of the child, this law wants to give the state the role of mediators in the marital relations of two minors, which, unfortunately, extends the procedure, drives people to a standstill that they do not want and delays the resolution of those issues that are really crucial to their mates and their children. The law states that funds for the establishment and operation of special custody centres are planned within the limits available to the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, and we all know what this means unfortunately for Croatian opportunities. The centre is designed as a public institution whose employees with a judicial trial represent children in judicial proceedings concerning their rights. In the Republic of Croatia, as I mentioned earlier, more than 5,600 couples were divorced, the average of which is that each couple has two children. Therefore, the public institution should ensure the presence of its employees in the conduct of nearly 11,400 children. Family law says that a child who has a power of attorney won't be named special care, but we don't really understand this provision and the power of attorney according to the procedural provisions is a person who takes representation actions in disputes. A pronoun can only be a lawyer or a blood relative in a legal line, a brother, a sister, or something like that. So since time is slowly running out for me although there are a lot of these things that we think are controversial, I will not support this Final Proposal Family Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79564	Thank you. We have two replicas. Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79565	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues Holly actually encouraged me to do two things in a replica and both of them from your opening observations. First of all, I think your political right is certainly some legal proposal to characterise as conservative, but I still think we should bring it. And we need to bring it in because you would say a lot of things aren't well worked out in your opinion, but every step towards protecting children is worth bringing in at least in my opinion because that's how we protect the most vulnerable segment of our society at all. In addition, some newspapers are taken primarily from practice, so what practice shows that works or does not work, changes or clearer definitions and issues of adoption, child protection, good practice corporations, mediation, mediation is recognised legal practice in the west and certainly mediation is something that needs to be introduced into Croatia. We can discuss the way, but it's definitely something to keep in mind. And the other thing is the time or the timing of the law. We have been discussing this law for a very long time, several months and in the first reading and in the second reading and public debate and interested committees within this House, so I think that this is one of the laws perhaps the best and the longest debate. So I think there was time to make an observation about the amendments there was still time, we announced some at the SDP club so that there are still elements or ways to fix the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79566	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79567	So I would just remind myself that the cases that were in the European Court of Human Rights did not indicate that the family law that is currently in force and which should be called off in any case, it is nothing at all controversial, it is not in itself problematic, the implementation of this law is problematic. And I'm afraid that by adopting certain new rules of the game, and these rules of the game are not unfortunately in the direction of recognising some new social circumstances that I believe I have tried to represent both in terms of contrived communities and in terms of increasing the number of children and in terms of the fact that there is really no state to interfere with the mediation of disturbed relationships between marriage partners, because if marriage partners or one of the partners decided not to want to be in that community anymore, why would the state ever decide to make peace with someone at all. I think it's a very conservative approach because you can't really force anyone unless they want to stay in a community where they're not satisfied. There's a whole series there. Not to mention that extramarital couples and couples really are not even in this law and are not allowed to adopt children, that is total discrimination in my opinion. So there's a lot of room for this law to be modernised and I hope in that sense you'll go with the amendments to fix it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79568	Thank you. Next replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79569	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues Holly, by respecting these fundamental goals that you have instructed and improved that should arise by introducing this law, I share your opinion where you said there would be a mess. And in a year, there were other expressions today and a mess and anything. And in a year, you could give it up. But that's not to say then, you see, we wanted, we wanted, we had good intentions because from that I can do much greater and greater consequences. Of course it worries what you're talking about the number of divorces that's going on. And we're also aware of the economic situation, the crisis and all that and mostly domestic violence. And now look, we have two things that I'm about today, which I've been trying to emphasize. Family violence is absolutely on the rise. And we had a good model of that specialized foster home. I come from a county where it was very well-placed and welfare centres in that part, but what happened, has been abolished. One good model that, mostly, women in rural areas protected quite well. And that was certainly one, one, not a good decision and in some way unfair. The second part about these family centers that had exceptional results, they had good results, they are now, they are also, in some way, abolished, why such things that are in the circumstances, we are aware of the circumstances simply being abolished and simply going on some models that have no real application at all in due time and can result in even greater consequences. Here's one thought of mine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79570	Thank you. Answer me, fellow Holly, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79571	Dear colleague, I have understood your replica as some kind of confirmation of what I said. However, I find the reasons for my opposition to this law very different from your reasons for opposing this law. Namely, it is my impression that you are trying to preserve and in some way preserve the existing situation while I believe that the existing situation should be largely liberalised, modernised and recognised certain social circumstances and newspapers that have occurred in the last 10 years. And it certainly is not in the direction of trying to preserve what is truly impossible to preserve. Because if there isn't a certain harmonic relationship within a community, then that community should simply be broken down. And also from what I've heard from your speaker on behalf of the club, you have the diametric opposite views of me regarding the extramarital community. So I think that extramarital communities really need to be fully equal with marriage communities because it's the only way that we really have protection for all of these members and in the extramarital communities and their children.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79572	Thank you. The word came from Deputy Minister Maya Sporish. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79573	Thank you very much. I'd just like to explain I'd just like the purpose and purpose of family mediation. [[Intruder: In front of the pay phone please.]] Family mediation has no purpose and purpose in bringing marriage mates together and preventing us from saying divorce. Its basic purpose and purpose is to draw up a parenting plan, because most often in the divorce process, there is a fight when it comes to children. That is the purpose, the true purpose and purpose of family mediation. For this reason, we have also amended the provisions relating to family mediation in the final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79574	Thank you, too. We continue the debate, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79575	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. So let me start before I start my debate to look first of all at one thesis that's gone through a debate that we could often hear, it's an adversities. Renouncing certain segments of the law that this is a very extensive law, etc. I'm going to use a syntagm used by a professor of literature when the students told him that certain books, novels, and all of you, I believe that everyone was reading realists, they loved to be extensive so Tolstoy, Dostoyevsky, etc., when they told her the professors and those books were thick and he answered them books are not fat, pigs are fat and the books are extensive, so this law is ensnared. And we've heard the good reasons why he's been engrossed. It's about why we want to legislatively regulate here because it's a segment that's extremely important, family segment, child protection and everything that goes with it. So let me now proceed with the debate after this brief period and welcome the law and give it my support at first. I also said in my first reading that there are many reasons why we should support this law. So other than better child protection and I think it's extremely important and crucial, in fact, in this law and in general this legislative proposal. Then the improvement of parental care provisions, long - term family court processes, aims to reduce them, and many others. What I can especially point out as my satisfaction and as a member of the Committee on the Family is that the applicant adopted and incorporated most of our comments on the first reading in the legislative proposal. So in this sense, the Proposer was very open to suggestions, suggestions, and it is precisely the result of this legislative proposal in the second reading. What I cannot resist is certainly Article 12, Article 12. A family law that says that marriage is legally arranged for the life of a woman and a man. In the first reading, or shortly before the first reading, we witnessed a referendum, the first referendum that triggered a civil initiative that was intended to regulate what marriage was. Then we spoke and spoke again even though this is now a constitutional category that it was never intended to define marriage differently. So marriage was and will remain a community of women and men. Now I would refer to several segments that have been changed between the first and second readings that I consider important. So, first of all, this is the adoption institute that has been, in practice, both the most problematic area and the most sensitive area so far. Therefore, adoption institutes without parental consent, adoption register, etc. were introduced. which are now receiving legal power, and the provision on compulsory child accommodation with the aim of adoption in the family, the most appropriate potential adoptor, has been amended in such a way as to define the possibility of having a child making personal contact with potential adopters, and all for the purpose of first and foremost protecting the child and assessing whether the potential adoptors really correspond to the child in everything, i.e. whether it is in the child's interest that those potential adoptors adopt it. The other changes that I find extremely important are enhanced mechanisms when it is decided that only one parent, mechanisms that restrict a manipulative parent from harming a child, hence those starting with financial penalties, compensation for damages and even the decision to change custody. I think this is extremely important, especially when we talk about protecting a child because we as a legislator and generally tend to believe that a parent always goes bona fide, or in good faith for the best interests of his child. Unfortunately, this is not always true, as all social care centres, primary schools, and even secondary schools and all others who have contact with children can testify. So I think it's extremely important that there are mechanisms that can limit the potentially harmful influence of parents who can have on a child, and unfortunately this stems from these we would say more violent divorces of marriages that then take very destructive profiles in the sense that sometimes even parents to make mistakes to another parent are willing to go very far. Then the family legal protection of disabled children is systematically improved, so I have already cited some of the reasons in this direction, but I cannot say without saying that modern international guidelines and practices are implemented, in particular practices and not only international but also domestic practices, which pointed to a whole series of shortcomings in the existing law, to the ambiguity of certain concepts defined in the law, but also to the inimplementability or need to introduce some new institutes into the new law. It's also a mediation, it's a deputy just before me and explained, so I'm not gonna stick around, which is not really the goal of saving a family as such, so my colleague Holly noticed it well if two people want to divorce the state here and there's no first meddling, that is, it's already incurring the human rights of individuals. But the state has an obligation to protect the child and the mediation is exactly going in this direction so that parents agree on how to take care of their child, i.e. to minimise the harmful influence that divorce can have on a child, from stress itself to how parents will take care of him, so that the child does not become the object of their competition or something like that, but there are some binding elements that will make parents take good care of the child. In any case, as I said in the replica before, any institution that improves child protection is certainly to support and therefore this law has my support. Every step and a small step towards better child protection is a step that is worth.... Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79576	Thank you, too. Next up for discussion Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79577	Thank you very much, Vice President. Reputed deputies with a co-worker. So here's to saying something about this Family Law, because today we've often heard that reforms are being talked about, and whenever reforms are being talked about, it's expected to be something better, more quality, that certain problems will be solved, especially when such important life laws are being proposed. However, the past two years have shown that reforms can go worse, laws have been passed, and the situation in the country is worse and worse, especially in certain segments of society. When we look at the law of 563 articles, it says that the effort was great, it really wasn't easy to write, there aren't many such laws, maybe the CAP, maybe the Maritime Code, etc. It's a really big effort. However, we have heard from many clubs today, especially the opposition, and the HDZ, of course, is there, says that the effects of this law will be negative, that we will do nothing, regardless of any news that the current government through the ministry has introduced into this law. In my opinion, it means that we'll have fewer families, that we'll have fewer married and eventually have fewer children. Because listening to the other side of the professional public, as well as practice, they are also in the positions the opposition spoke of today. They say it's not the content, it's the practice. That's what certain courts have warned of. What we have from our family in Croatia shows a 2011 census that says that there are a million 215 thousand and 865 families in Croatia, that there are 37,000 less than in 2001, that 373 thousand people live in single households, that a million and 615 thousand people do not live in any community, almost 40% of the population. Although divorces and the number of extramarital communities are growing, marriage is still a community in which more than half of the adult Croatian population lives, and 88% of nearly 800 thousand children under the age of 18 are raised with both parents. The census shows that 52% of the population lives in marriage, 2.7% of them in the extramarital community, and only 0.004%, namely 140 people, 70 men and 70 women, have declared to live in the same-sex community. Every fifth man and every tenth woman over the age of 30 are not married. Their share of the total population increased by 50% compared to 2001. The proportion of divorced ones has certainly increased in the period since the last census, since 2001 it has increased by a quarter. At 1,000 married or married people in 2001, there were 60 divorced, and in 2011. 75 divorced. The number of families with children in the time between the two lists fell by as much as 50,000, and about 867000 families with children in half of them grew only one child. Only every nine families have more than two children. In 867000 families with children live as many as a million and 450,000 children, but as many as 350,000 children are more than 25 years old, which confirms the trend of a long stay of children with parents, as well as the new trend of returning adult children to a parent home most often due to the inability to pay rents, loans or other obligations. By 50%, the number of extramarital communities that now have 48000 has increased. The most common population is between 25 and 39 years of age. Compared to the EU average, and especially with the northern countries, we are still a traditional society, but all the data show a slight trend in abandoning exactly this way of life. There has been a lot of debate here about the referendum and the marriage that has been defined as a community of men and women. 66% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have shown their position and said what they think about the issue. Some others have remained in the minority, but this law does not exactly respect it. What does the profession say about this law? Three departments of family law Zagreb – Rijeka and Split say he is a bad, nomotechnically catastrophic, over-expanded and poorly structured, almost inconclusive, and we have heard today from many that money for the implementation of such a form of law is missing, especially professional persons. Many say we had a good law that we could fix a little bit. I agree with them, I don't think there was time for this kind of law. What can Croatian families, when we are talking about them, expect such a law? Today, the Croatian family lives hard. It's survival before life. Unfortunately, a family with a government like this is becoming displaced, leaving Croatia mainly as the prime minister said for business, and only in the last two years is 30,000. They not only left their families, but also their homeland for a long time. The family home budgets with the government's economic policy are in the worst condition in the young history of the Republic of Croatia. Money's getting less and less and more expensive. The number of people blocked over 300,000. The number of unemployed 300,000. Can we even imagine how to live in such families? Will such families have problems? Shall we send a message to the young people that after completing the study, it is enough 1600 kuna for a nice beginning of family life to create and develop the possibility of wanting to be in some kind of life community tomorrow? We've heard a lot of stories today about mediation, I notice it, exists within the ruling coalition. At the moment, the mediation feels the most there. But I think that citizens are increasingly sadly meditating on us because they don't have enough resources to live on. And these are the basic problems and the basic concepts that should have taken place in changing this law, because it is time to worry not about the expertise or competences of the people in charge of taking care of this problem, but about the overall direction in which this Government is going. Because to me, this kind of law then turns out to be one side of the product of this failed policy where we wanted to show that we're doing something, that we're innovative, that we can come up with something, and how it's going to end will show practice in some future time. But we'll all be surprised at each other again in time to come together. I think the moment for the Croatian family is difficult because it is still a basic pillar on which healthy society needs to be developed. Whether it's a good direction and the goal has also been shown by recent elections, because people are very unhappy with everything they're offered. I think that these data should have been the basis to determine where we want to go with this law, in which we can help or only write laws, and to record products or events every 10 years mostly in a minus, in a reduction, in a demographic part, in a birth certificate or mortality, etc. etc. Just one fact that we've evened marriage and an extramarital community in some segments, and yet in another we've said about marriage we need mediation, we don't need to show enough about the seriousness and approach to this important problem. Because I don't know why some of us should if we're equal and some of us shouldn't. That's what I'm gonna say. Show us some practice. I think it's best to either let this bill go into third reading or to withdraw it because we have the law so that we can change something for the better, because the data I have cited is alarming and show that our direction has not only been in the last two years, but maybe the period before is not good when we talk politics towards Croatian families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79578	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Damir Tomic, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79579	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Boric, I listened to you very carefully. At first, you said this law wouldn't have any effect and then you statisticalally listed a million things that really stand, but you didn't say any reason why there wouldn't be any effect, but not one. And to deceive the public shows a few things that I pulled out of what you said afterwards. So, you said that 66% of the citizens were for a decision on the marriage community as proposed by Mrs. Zeljka Markic, which is not true at all. 60% of those who went to the referendum, and you know well how many people have come out and how much that ultimately supported such a relationship with marriage. Secondly, you said, you mention 300,000 unemployed, hand-to-heart slightly less than 360, but let's round it up. Well, that's the number we inherited from you. So what did you expect, a magic wand? And finally, families and children leave Croatia for this government. Let us only remember the great leaders of your party and what they had to do with Croatian citizens and Croatian families, just the last eight years of your rule. And I won't even mention General Big. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79580	Thank you. Answer, fellow Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79581	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Tomic, you did not inherit 300,000 unemployed, you inherited 315 thousand. That's what everybody knows, it's written down not to make up any data or tell the truth. The fact is, in your reforms, you've allowed that number to grow to 385 thousand. That's the part where I was saying it means that there's always talk of reforms in this House and that many have ended up negatively. So this law, this big reform turn, some big reform move, and when we count ourselves after maybe 2021, somehow it still happens in this form we'll see what we've done in our population, family we've all done together without looking at each individual party or politics. I claim that too little of this data is respected to make them some kind of better law than what it is. Because there are indeed many indiscretions or conflicts within the very law that many today have spoken of, and they do not want to be corrected or they do not want to listen because absolute intelligence always comes from the ruling ones. What the citizens think not only at the referendum but also here a few days ago in the elections they showed. And believe me, they're very good at thinking and thinking about what we're talking about right here and talking about and what I'm talking about. And that's what bothers them because it's clear to everyone that saying that a healthy man gets sick without money. And that's why I mentioned the number of unemployed, the number of blocked, and that perhaps these are the basic problems why today a large part of people are tempted to try to keep the family in the form that he created it. Unfortunately, however, many fail and there are different endings. It's up to all of us to be affirmative and say what we should be saying that people understand what we're talking about here today. But if we're going to keep politicizing and going back to '45, '75, '89. It's not going to get us anywhere with a colleague named Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79582	Time. Thank you. Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79583	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, a dear colleague of mine, a few things actually moved me to a replica of you. In fact, this debate reminds me a lot of the Association Act. When we talked about the Law on Associations, we all agreed that the existing Law on Associations was not good, that it should be changed, but that we had pre-proposed the Law on Associations, i.e. the opposition had condemned the proposal of the Associations Act to failure, at least in its discussions, and said that it could not be changed in such a way, that nothing in practice would liven up, etc. And now we're back in the same position to bring into the world, if we're listening to opposition, stillborn. In the sense that we all agree that the law should be amended, the law is in our second reading and your club has made observations in the first reading and on committees etc., etc. Some of the remarks were incorporated in this bill, and further you do not need to make it, will not be enforceable, etc., etc. I repeat and I will repeat if one step, a small step, a half step towards better child protection then all the effort has been paid off, then all the effort is justified. The fact that you insist on collecting cheap political points on such an important topic is on your soul, but I think the Family Law is too important to resort to petty demagogy. In the end, you yourself have concluded and I quote this: "The trend of abandoning traditional lifestyles is visible in Croatia, i.e. traditional forms of life." And then in the second sentence, you realize that we need a conservative Family Law. So the legislator should be proactive, the legislator should monitor trends in society, norm them legally in order to protect mates, outsiders and, of course, children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79584	Thank you, too. Answer, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79585	Thank you, dear colleague Hajdukovic. I have expressed here both the opinion and the professional public not only of us from the opposition or from HDZ. And they said clearly that the law was bad, nomotechnically catastrophic, over-expanded, too badly structured. Well, that's what people say that they're dealing with. This morning I listened to a nice show on the Croatian Radio where the gentlemen who are dealing with it were very well alerted to all the problems of this bill. That's what the associations did, that's what the parties did, and of course we have the right to say to everyone in our own corner what we think we should say. No one should be angry about it, you shouldn't be nervous about it. I know it's not easy to lose the election and expect some better solutions, but for that in your time. We remain with this being bad and it is better to leave this existing law with some small changes agreed with the general and professional public than such a major reform move that creates only an additional problem, and does not solve anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79586	Thank you. Next up for a debate, Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79587	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, respected deputy ministers with a fellow associate, respected colleagues and fellow MPs and deputies. So the Family Law that we are talking about today, and each one before, is extremely important, so it is literally a fundamental law, that is, because it is not only governed by family and legal relations, but because it is governed in many ways and in many places precisely by human rights. And I know that many of these laws are very eager to wait. I'm going to talk about just one group of our fellow citizens that the mechanisms of the current family law don't provide just such a fundamental human right. Thus, the right to be parents, to make contact with their child after divorce, or relationship with their mate. In fact, we are faced with the fact that even a third of the parents fail to agree on further child care during the divorce and that the number of people who manipulate the child after the divorce is growing, make contact with the child impossible, and blackmail the former partner. I'm breaking up a parent bond is a huge shock to the child, but what follows after divorce in an increasing number of cases is literally a real horror. Now, I personally know the case of an eight - year - old child who was literally destroyed, so I will say, in the years of my father’s efforts to achieve his parental right to carry out a certain value with that child and, unfortunately, with the very successful efforts of the child’s mother to deny it. It is generally known that in avoiding my parental obligations after divorce, above all, I mean the obligation to pay child support, forefathers. However, in disabling contact with his former partner with the child, he is certainly unfortunately ahead of his mother, which is somewhat logical since in 80% of cases they are the ones who are assigned to the child after the breakup of the relationship. It is not logical, however, and it is certainly not acceptable that children are mainly given to mothers, abuses, after divorce. What are the reasons for denying contact with another parent’s child? So, the reasons for the shorts can be quite banal, here's the mother complaining that the child while staying at his father eats, for example, unhealthy food, or that he watches too much television, or that his father allows him to play too much video games. However, there are also very dramatic, drastic examples where mothers abuse children to avenge themselves, literally avenge their former partner to this end. That a mother blackmails an ex-partner that if she gets into a new emotional relationship, then she and her other partner won't be allowed to see their children at all. This legislative proposal that we are talking about for the first time today is really, really comprehensive and in detail trying to solve this particular problem. According to the provisions of the new law, parents who intend to divorce will first have to consult at a social care centre where they will learn about the importance of joint child care and the obligation to make a common parental care plan. Such a plan must provide answers to the most important questions related to the fate and position of children, which is where the child will live, how much time he will have with which parent, how parents will exchange information relevant to the child and, of course, what is very important about the material status of the child, how much alimony will be. It is important to stress that in the negotiation of the parental plan, parents will have complete freedom, however, when agreed, so when parents agree on the plan they will have to deliver it to the court to check whether the child’s well-being plan is not harmful and will then be approved and the parent’s plan will, in effect, be given the power of the executive document. It is only after that that parents can part with agreement that making contact with another parent is the most important rule. If parents do not agree before divorce at mandatory consultation will be invited to the first meeting of family mediation, it is that there have already been a lot of words today, where a team of experts will help them agree, with the fact that we must, of course, stress this rule will not apply to those partners among whom there has been domestic violence. In such cases of domestic violence, of course their case will immediately resolve the court. The question arises as to what happens when divorce parents respond to this family mediation but fail to agree on future care for the child. So in this case, the court will decide as it has done so so far. However, there is one huge difference compared to current practice, and it consists in the event that a lawyer is not reached in the trial, while both father and mother will have a child. Therefore, it will be a professional person with a legal exam to be selected from the list of lawyers or will be employees of the Ministry of Social Policy or the Office of the Ombudsman for Children and they will deal exclusively with the representation of children in divorce, but also with adoptions and other similar disputes. In the parental plan as I have already pointed out, parents will also have to agree on the amount of child support alimony. The law will determine the minimum amount in percentage of the average salary, now the alimony is between 932 and 1207 kuna depending on the age of the child, and given the adoption of the parents the alimony will be able to be higher, with the fact that the highest possible alimony will still be determined, so that there will be no abuse, because we know that the purpose of the alimony cannot be to enrich the former partner, but it is to settle the needs of the child. And finally a few words about sanctions against the provisions of the law. In fact, sanctions are important, the Germans say the law without sanctions is the same as the bell without a slaughter. The law provides that parents who continue to live with their children after divorce and who do not allow their former partner to contact the child in accordance with the parental plan they are together with free will, so to speak, or in accordance with the court decision, so that parent will be punished by a fine of up to 30 000 kuna, a prison of 1 day to 60 months, and ultimately, it is very important to stress that the decision on which child will continue to live can also be changed. Also, if another parent suffers certain material damage because he is prevented from meeting with the child, such as paid vacation with the child or if the path is realised to make contact with the child, then the parent with whom the child lives will have to make up for the money spent. And to conclude, then, the main reason for the adoption of the new Family Law is primarily childcare and all that matters with regard to childcare, after divorce, parents will have to agree on a parental plan before the formal divorce. So before the formal divorce and the way in which, and it is actually one way that should be reduced in the future of subsequent stress, the subsequent trauma of the child, and that is, in any case, a much better, important more favourable solution from now on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79588	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79589	Well, my colleague Jelash, you said, I'm going to say that after the divorce of the marriage of horror, so I think the divorce of marriage is probably for the good part of the people who consciously and willingly entered the marriage of horror because if it wasn't for horrors they probably wouldn't have gotten divorced, that family wouldn't have fallen apart, and that situation was horror regardless of the family law and the one before or on this present one. If these people were so well-coordinated that they understood each other so well and that they could plan so well together that it was ideally envisaged here when it comes to the parental plan, then they probably wouldn't even get divorced, and expect those two people to make a consistent and coordinated parent plan for that of their two children, it's nicely agreed and then bring it to a court that will turn it into an executive correction, almost... expected. This divorce situation in which I have not been, but I have friends of the whole series that I have met and seen what it looks like and probably many here know, it's always traumatic, it's always destructive, it always hits children, it always creates bad energy, it always breaks the family, and whatever the law, it's always going to be bad in itself, except in some exceptional cases, and it's usually one side that wants to get out of marriage, and the other side is or is not. So, and this is all you've been talking about, it could practically have been resolved with a few amendments to the current law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79590	Thank you. Answer, colleague Jelesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79591	My colleague, I agree with what you said was a traumatic divorce for both partners and especially for the child. However, I stressed that there was an increasing number of horrors following the divorce. In fact, I emphasized this in the context of the fact that just after the divorce happened, very often it manipulates the child. So he just wants to make a mistake with his partner, get even with him, and these kids are extremely hard to deal with, and that can't happen. And that's why it aims at this parenting plan that you said your parents agreed on in advance, so they have to agree, if they don't agree, then that's what the court will do for them, so how they think about taking care of the child. We said, at the very beginning and more times today, that this Family Law is primarily aimed at respecting children's rights and I believe that in this way it will do much better than it seems so far. I think this law is a step forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79592	Thank you. Next up for discussion, Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79593	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy Minister. So we can actually say that for any law we can be for or against, eventually abstention. Today we've heard a variety of attitudes, today we've heard a variety of grades, but they're... they're the opposite, and precisely because of this... the opposite of thinking that this is a good law. In fact, we heard the labeling that it was a byproduct of a failed policy, we heard it was an irreparable law. On the other hand, we've heard it's a conservative law. Obviously, one step we've made, which we're going to do, is not enough, but since we're in a conservative society this is still the law in front of society. And as far as irreparability is concerned, I'm saying that the law that we're amending, that is, the past law, the Family Law was unusable, and that can be confirmed by the people of the profession, the people of the welfare center. So, the area of this law is a specific and sensitive area, and that is why we have such a great interest that is visible, and on the other hand, the state of family-law protection of children and adults, family members under care, did not need to change accordingly. I welcome here in Article 5 of the principle of primary protection of the welfare and rights of the child because the proposal for this Family Law at the heart of the interest has a child in different circumstances, which is in the divorce of children's parents, measures to protect abused and neglected children, and adoption, and I'm about to say a few sentences on this subject. Thus, the whole divorce system of a child’s underage child’s parents focuses on professional help with the planning of parental care for a child under the circumstances of divorce. When we look at each year a report by the Ombudsman for children, then we see what problems are problems, which are problems in the field of joint parental care, problems of meeting, association with the child, violation of the child's right to parental care of both parents after divorce and abuse of the right to meet, socializing parents, emotionally,... unsolved partner, emotional, property and other relationships, but to the harm of the child. Unfortunately, a child is used very often as a weapon in the hands of his parents. We're talking here about highly conflicting divorces, and when you look at it, we can say every honor to those who have divorced civilisedly, there are few. But what we see, we see that these children in high conflict divorces are a particularly emotional charge for parents, these children taking that particular charge, unfortunately taking over adult roles. It is such a burden for children to experience a variety of pathological changes that lead to further trauma and thus it is very difficult to fight. So when it comes to conflict and high conflict divorces of marriages in which the system of justice and social care no longer has protection mechanisms to stop manipulation to protect the child, I say again that changes were necessary. We are obliged to prevent this conflict from manifesting itself to that child. And it is this law that parents commit themselves to professional counseling before court proceedings, developing a new concept of a plan for joint parental care. We can also say that they are hitting the basis for family mediation and it is good to postpone and know the reason why it is delayed until 1.1.2015 when a number of educated family mediators should be available on the territory of the whole of Croatia. Because when it comes to mediation, then I think that it can't even do ad hoc education because this is an area of mediation and partnership is a very demanding and specific area for all those psychotherapists who get into it. In case of high conflict divorce, the child is protected by the appointment of a special guardian of the child's lawyer. They should be independent and protect the child's interests naturally in court proceedings. I also welcome that commitments are to temporarily regulate relations between the child and the parents within 30 days because in practice we know that divorce proceedings can last for more than a year in which the time of the child is very often manipulated and alienated from his parents to another parent, and all in order not to break up, this is actually done in order not to break the relationship between the child and the parents or so that the family can function in accordance with the provisional decision. The most common causes of child trauma in divorce except for the fact that parents are getting divorced are unfinished frustrations of parents who stem from disturbed relationships that my colleagues used to say before me. It has been said today that it is not protected by this law of the family that it has been protected before, that it is now focusing only on children. I'd say not if this law is properly read. the change in the divorce system in such a way that the focus is placed on a minor child does not reduce the importance of preserving marriage as a fundamental family legal institute, as professionals continue to refer mates to a marriage counseling facility if there is a possibility of preserving marriage. Therefore, no one is forcing anyone to do so but, if there is a possibility, it is certain that professional workers will consult there. When you look at child protection measures they haven't long been touched in the Family Law for more than 30 years, and I will repeat that social city methods and evaluations and protection of human rights have changed, have improved, etc. 30 years ago, the primary goal was to separate the child from the family in which he was threatened, the child's life, health and development, and it would often occur that children remain very, very long per country, which, of course, is contrary today in the 21st century with a fundamental human right to respect the family. Today's proposal Family Law offers a whole range of measures to protect children who are in line with modern psychosocial work not only with children but also with parents. I must stress this law that it sets clear rules and deadlines for dealing with both child protection and social work with parents in order to keep the child in the biological family. And that's the opposite of what's meant to be said. The child's separation in this Family Law proposal is foreseen as a final measure, which clearly regulates the current law in this case and the parents' tasks, the social worker's tasks aimed at changing the behaviour of parents and returning the child to the family. Otherwise, through a series of articles, it is clear that the roles and centres for social care are defined, and as regards speaking measures towards parents and working with families, there are clearly defined deadlines and how reporting is done, and I think they welcome such a law from talking to social workers because the protocols are clearly defined as how they will be done. I can see I'm running out of time, so I'll just say it for the rest of the day. Although this is a widespread law, we can agree and we cannot say that it is passed under some ideal conditions. However, it is necessary to pass the law because the Family Law that was in force did not satisfy it. This law also points to the direction in which the legal protection of the family is planned, the social care centre's obligations are clearly stated, especially in the process of family problems. Therefore, such a law should prevent a number of problems in the system and identify individual answers in their implementation that have so far been unsatisfactory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79594	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79595	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, Šimac-Bonačić, I have actually a large part of your debate with which I agree, but I do not agree with the conclusion at the beginning of your debate that the existing law, the Family Law, is unusable because the law is, as you know, passed in 2003, so it was complemented. Most experts say the law is good, so it's usable. I've also talked to a dozen and perhaps more lawyers who deal exclusively with family law, so every day with what is real life that also says that the law is good so that in one part it would naturally be directed to bring it into line with real life. Ten years is a lot, in 10 years a lot has changed. And one part and most of the professional public and at the cathedrals in Split in Zagreb, Rijeka, so Family Rights agrees that the existing law is very useful. However, of course it needs to be completed, especially mentioned divorces, of course traumatic whenever divorce occurs and in the least, on the appearance of the most consistent conditions it is traumatic for children. And that is why I think that mediation, or what the state can do, should not happen or should only happen when such a drastic situation arises when a divorce occurs, but many families need help and do not even think about the divorce. We're talking about families that have children who unfortunately invade the world of drugs. So people who need advice to overcome problems. And that's why I think that family center model was good. So every family’s daily help that comes out of a situation cannot be found with us and needs professional and timely help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79596	Answer, colleague Bonačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79597	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kosor. In Family Law, I looked back at my discussion in fact on child protection, and I was apostrophe that this particular family law focused on child protection. Unlike perhaps the existing Family Law, which has focused more on protecting the family, which of course does not exclude these new changes, or the new law does not exclude going against the family. But the fact is that measures to protect children in the Family Law have not been touched for more than 30 years, that time has changed, that social work methods and methods and evaluations, etc. have changed and improved. That is why by talking to people who carry out, whose weapons are in hand, the tools in the hands of the Family Law they said that in many elements was not clear, this Family Law. He was probably good in his segments, I'm not saying nothing was good. But this law brings much more protection and the goal is actually to focus on child protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79598	Thank you, too. And the next replica of Ivan Posavec the guilty. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79599	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleagues yourself have noticed that this is a very extensive law, a law that regulates a lot of family-related issues. But it seems to me that somehow all of us in the debates are more or less focused on this moment of divorce, which really puts only a child in the centre and asks the question of responsible parenting. Thus, often these divorces, or divorces, would be free to say that a divorce is never a normal situation for a child if children are the fruit of that marriage because the situation is really changing for them. They were taught to live with their father and mother in a family situation and now, no matter how chaotic or less chaotic or totally calm it is in some way a natural situation for a child. And then when we put high conflict situations on the other hand, situations where it is really very difficult to determine how to put an objective judgment on how to avoid being manipulated with a child in a later situation after a divorce. I think that just through the solutions offered by this Family Law, we can go far more peacefully into the divorce situation today because there are tools available to parents, professional assistance, and actually an additional concern that ensures I would say the emotional safety of a child at the moment of the divorce itself. Whenever we become parents, we have not been instructed to use and conduct how we will provide our child with what is most important and what is certainly best for the child but I know that if we deal with reason and if we look and put the child in the center and focus that we will surely, at the moment of divorce, be sure, on the basis of the law that is before us, provide a step for the safety of our child.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79600	Answer from my colleague Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79601	Well, nice fellow, I agree with you. In fact, parents always need help, and I advocate that we may also be able to work for our parents ’ schools and especially in these things when they suffer children in high conflict divorces, etc. But when you look at the instructions given to parents when divorce is usually said you have to look after children, you have to tell children, we both love you, there's no divorce between children and parents, but in reality, different things happen and what you mentioned. Children are victims of such divorces, such a course of divorce. Kids have these emotional charges that are actually transmitted from their parents. And I repeat what I said earlier in the discussion that actually children become adults, become parents to their parents. Unfortunately, they are rapidly growing up and that is why you noticed that eventually and with such a law, the possibility of professional help in such situations will reduce this traumatism because when you look at doctors, child psychiatrists who deal with such pathology, you can only say that the number of such children who need help is increasing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79602	Thank you, too. Next up for the debate, Maria Ilic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79603	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear assistant minister with a co-worker. In its debate, it would first and foremost address the issue of domestic violence, equalising the extramarital and marriage communities and the cost of implementing this law. First of all, let us remind ourselves that the Republic of Croatia is a signator of the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence. The Convention as an international contract is also a comprehensive legal framework that will apply to all forms of violence against women, including domestic violence. Violence in the family is more disproportionately affecting women according to all indicators, but men can also be victims of domestic violence. The Convention is gender-aware and gender-founded, and the law mostly ignores the factor of domestic violence, except in the provision of Article 328, so it is proposed to lay down provisions against violence against women and domestic violence, and in accordance with the Convention. As for the extramarital and marriage communities, we have the exact same content. It's a family community, and they're just different in shape. But although the same content, the extramarital community has been discriminated against in the rights of partners as adoption of children, pension, health insurance, inheritance, tax status, exemption from inheritance taxes, donations and so forth. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the HSU will submit an amendment to Article 185, which we wish to enable the extramarital partners to adopt children. In view of this obvious violation, we maintain human rights and penalties of the extramarital community, it is necessary to correct this inconsistencies and extramarital communities must have the same rights and obligations as marriages in respect of any law or sublaw, obligation, rights or privileges relating to tax or similar fiscal duties. I also support the opinion of a large number of associations that have reported these days that the maintenance of an extramarital partner and a former extramarital partner should be considered a personal deduction from income tax. Furthermore, the fact is that the application of such a law will introduce new jobs to judges and employees of welfare centres and, with existing capacities, it is unlikely that the purpose of the law will be achieved. In order for the law to apply at all, new employment is necessary in both courts and social care centres, at least in our budget up to 50% of the current staff. A new education by such a regulation is also inevitable. There is also anticipation of the business capacity entirely. In Croatia, out of 19,000 people with difficulties 16000 have been deprived of their business skills. Taking a business capacity is a radical measure, and what if there are among those 16000 people to whom it should not be applied. So the doubt is always there. At each social care center, about 75% of people deprived of their full business skills are under care. These are mostly persons with no property and no means to live, mostly users of the welfare system. The law requires that all of these persons are subject to new procedures for deprivement of their business ability before municipal courts in order to assess exactly what things a person can do on his own and when he needs the help of a guardian. In court proceedings, every person deprived of his or her business ability will have to be fully re-edited and the cost of an expert will fall again on the court's burden and budget, as well as on the state's automatic budget. The law introduces a new public institution of the Centre for Special Care, the founder of the Republic of Croatia and the funds for financing the activities of the Centre for Special Care are provided in the state budget. The appointments of special custodians have always been in the jurisdiction of the Centre for Social Care where employees and employees with judicial exams have passed, and they have passed further professional education and performed highly quality and professionally the job of appointment of custodians, so it is not clear why a new public institution is now being introduced and increases the cost of investing additional financial resources in the organisation, space and education by creating a new bureaucracy. This law produces a series of costs, which will certainly burden the budget of the Republic of Croatia, but will also fall on the burden of parents. The law is extensive, it is not unacceptable entirely. It should, of course, be modified through discussions and proposals and representatives, as well as other relevant professional entities. I hope that, with regard to today's extremely high quality discussions and proposals, the Proposer will also respect both the opinion and the representatives, of course some and the public, and refer the bill to the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79604	Thank you, too. We move on to replicas, Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79605	Thank you. Well, I just wanted to refer to the issue of domestic violence among other things that you mentioned, and I would agree with you there, and we have already talked on several occasions about family violence being certainly a single problem of Croatian society that should still be more and more, perhaps even more deeply, actually work out as a social problem and sanction, although perhaps the Family Law is not the first place, and neither is the last place in which this problem is primarily to be dealt with. I must admit that I am a little surprised that you pensioners or representatives of the Retirement Party are liberal in your positions of the Croatian Party of Retired, and even advocate the maintenance and tax relief of an extramarital partner which is very, indeed one, the lady spoke, the colleague mentioned on behalf of the party even though she is talking about an individual debate which is such a very, very liberal position and I even have to admit that she somewhat surprised me. We can't, when it comes to the court's decisions, question all decisions, not decisions of the welfare center. Because, of course, we can question any decision in any way. However, if a decision is made to deprive business ability, we cannot now wonder if they were all meant to be. Maybe they did, maybe they didn't, but the decision was made. We can also wonder if everyone was supposed to be in a disability pension today that they are, but they are. The decision has been made as it is, even though there seems to be too many.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79606	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79607	Thank you very much. Dear parliamentary representative, you don't think that the Croatian party of pensioners has a long-standing experience on all matters, so don't be surprised by such a liberal attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79608	Next replica, Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79609	Comrade Ilic, I may share with you the thoughts related to one part of this discussion of yours. I'm certainly not going to get into whether there's any attitude or personal or on behalf of the club liberal or not. At the end of this look, which is somehow colored ideologically, we can argue, I don't know, until when, we'll find it very difficult to agree. However, in this Family Law, we should agree on some basic matters. We should get answers to some questions that we keep repeating. However, neither the MPs' club nor the proposings can give us concrete answers. That part of your debate about special custody centers would really be very supportive. It is really not clear if family centres that played a preventive role are abolished because of rationalisation and that progress is established. The law is introduced at the end of the entire text into a second reading. Articles relating to the establishment of these centres for special custody and it is really not clear why in one branch of law, therefore in the Penal Law, children's representatives in criminal proceedings will be specialised, educated lawyers, and in another branch of law a centre for special custody is established. These are two concepts of child protection, why children are not equal. Maybe there's a logical answer, but there's no way we can get it. Rationalization is obviously not the reason for saving, saving is not the reason. The reason is to establish a new institution that is not clear whether such a centralized institution will be available to children.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79610	Time. We have an answer, colleague Ilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79611	Honorable MPs, so the law is not ideology. And regardless of who is in power and what ideology, the Family Law must rest primarily on some human postulates. So this isn't ideological whether it's left or right in power. First of all, she must approach such a law wisely. And that's why we're here right now to point to some moments of whether we can agree together on some of the things that we hold to be extremely important to our society in this family law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79612	Thank you, too. And the last replica of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79613	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Ilic I am very, very pleased that right from the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Party of Retired People we hear the representation of the true values of this law, and one of these is your commitment to commit ourselves more to the Family Law against domestic violence because violence is a huge problem which is very often silenced. In times of crisis, domestic violence strengthens, but always or almost always tries to close and many interpret it exclusively as a family matter that remains behind closed doors. Right now women are the biggest victims of course with children, and precisely women in extramarital communities, I know several examples of women who have been expelled and that kind of violence that their partner never, ever wanted to marry them even though they had children, even though they had acquired property larger or smaller. Therefore, it is a real focus, and we must focus on this in both the Family Law and the Penalty and Infraction. It's the real concern of a life agent in the family. And that's why I thank you for that debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79614	Thank you very much. There's no answer, we'll continue the debate. Jasen Mesic, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79615	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's definitely the opportunity we had today to hear an extensive and interesting, quite calm and reasoned debate and it's to expect from something called Family Law. A law that, according to its title and nature, should protect something called family. First of all, we could hear that it refers to children. And of course, a law that should protect something, of course, that everyone is sensitive to it, that all layers of society are sensitive to it and that everyone is careful not to defile in any way what we consider a family. I'll say it because I can say it myself when I hurt a woman, a girl who was more than a family, in a way I realized what a mistake I could make. And in some ways if we look at the family regardless of other settings, when I know what I've done with my failure and my work and how it can affect it in the long term, then only then can we see how the Family Law must look. The fact is that this morning on the Croatian Radio was an extremely interesting show that spoke about this very legislative proposal, about this second reading, where there were dozens of objections that could be heard in today's parliamentary debate. And it is from people who have nothing to do with certain political prerogatives that we have here in the Croatian Parliament but really people, or experts who deal with this topic. They also mentioned the long-term public debate, mentioned both legal objections and professional remarks, the question of family courts, the issue of short application of the law, the questions of lawyers whether they would be able to adapt, the question of adapting judges. More than 600 points of material and multiple points were discussed, and in today’s debates it could actually be heard that it would be better to make changes and supplement the 2003 Law. In the opening speech, Honorable fellow academics Reiner had already said that in this bill they had completely left out something called parenting, duty and parental rights guidelines and in what sense it was theirs, so if we want legal obligations to raise children. I really don't see any reason to leave it out of the bill, and it certainly can't hurt anyone, and if we're already in favour of the children's interest that everyone here has declared it, then it's definitely better to have it in law because sooner or later it can be called to any child one day. It is also totally unacceptable to use terms in the law itself and to apply provisions that are related to a completely different law, which is the Life Partnership Act that has not yet passed the parliamentary procedure. It is totally unacceptable that there are logical errors in law and nomotechnical, so let’s say you have a provision that the property, or the house, during the divorce period, can not be sold without the consent of the spouse. What about when the divorce is over? It doesn't say, and no property debate has yet been held. What in that case? You also have a similar situation in subsistence issues. I wonder what kind of landlord is going to go to look for statements from individual couples in certain communities today, do they in any way guarantee one another? Of course, it is totally unacceptable that we do not have a financial projection of the financial need and that we cannot possibly get an answer to the question whether there is any means to implement this reform and this law or this means do not exist and when it will exist and in what way? And something that we are constantly calling here, which is about the European Court of Human Rights where it is said to be one of the motives for passing this law. However, it is forgotten that the Court of Human Rights, in the reasons of its judgments, did not at any time criticise the law as such, but criticised the application, or the implementation of that law, and I fear that if this law did not come back to us, whether it was recast or not, whether it would return to that platform of the 2003 Law, that precisely because of the problems in application and which were mentioned, therefore insufficiently long-term, it would result in a further loss of judgments in the European Court of Human Rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79616	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Miss twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79617	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, you've begun your discussion very nicely, and I think you've gone somewhere deep and touched the core of this issue. Indeed, whether 563 articles of this law will solve all the problems that today’s family is in. And you've talked about it yourself through so many of these articles in this law, you should get rid of the indifference, the poverty, the lack of work. The family used to be self-sufficient, it was both home, and school, and savings, and the loan room, was also an insurance company in case of illness and age. Today, unfortunately, in a situation like this, all the paths of the family from home, in the race for work, in the problems of raising children, and then we get something that is 563 articles solved. I don't think, among other things, I'm going to talk now about love within the family, respect and everything, I'm going to talk about that every state, every government, and every government should ensure that every measure of the family is returned to its centre. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79618	Thank you. My colleague Mesic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79619	I thank my colleagues on this replica for, in some way, underlining and pointing out what I wanted to say and what was, in fact, well noticed, was the point of what I wanted to say about this law and what I wanted to say most about it. Maybe this is the law that has the most beautiful name of all the laws we've had in the procedure of this assembly. Right, and when you look at those 500 and some articles that are not here, and what you said about the family being something again, and what an individual, and society, and institutions, and this Croatian Parliament should do and make their contribution. Even so, you have a situation to introduce rules, some explanations to children of 14 years of age, that at the same time, you have a situation, that you can support a child for up to 26 years, and many colleagues from the position and opposition have said that it is almost impossible to do so today, etc. etc. Now, if this is really what you said, that we should find families as much as it concludes in society, is ideal, is probably not there and will never be, and the mistake of each of us is possible, it is important that we of course see them and try to correct them, but if we have seen so many potential mistakes in today's debate and so many potential problems that this bill is causing, then I really don't see why this proposal doesn't retreat or possibly go into third reading or go back to that 2003 law platform. Years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79620	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Drazen Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79621	Here, thank you. Yeah, here's the end I'm going to try not to actually repeat everything that's been said to shorten time, but let me also say my own actually a little longer opinion or thinking about this law. He's kind of, he's kind of just onto some kind of legitimate or legal practice that's going on with us. In preparation for this debate I tried to look at what to look at from the Anglo-Saxon laws on the Internet. And it's interesting to see that it's for Canada, Australia, UK or for the German laws of 50,70,90, which were then gradually upgraded by amendments. I didn't find any new law anywhere. So everyone stands and upgrades. What's actually, it's not even a question of what the content of this law is, but of what we're constantly creating new systems that we're ready to do, that we're actually ready to create something and then come back with a bug to break it down, and then re-create something new in a new experiment, some new models. So it reminds me, reminds me, reminds me of this law. So far, we've had nothing, and now we've found each other, and now we're going to create something completely new. We will create in a way that only four articles of the law will be valid since the adoption of laws relating to the centre for special custody, and only those articles of the law were not in the process of reading this current law, that is the only thing. The special custody center, as I recall, and those four articles were not in the law reading process at all. And now they come in second, and the only ones now come into force on the eighth day of law-making in the National Journal. All that was in the reading process and what's now being transferred to another, it's going to go through some time when the conditions are met, but as defined by the law. The law of 563 articles called Family Law found no space for parental love, for the concept of parental care, for a better definition of the responsibility of the parents towards the child or their common relationship, but found between 345 and 543 articles countless spaces that ultimately and invariably explain all possible modes of judicial proceedings that could take place in all possible and impossible situations. And then call it Family Law. In some ways, he has no definition of family, no definition of parental care, no such thing as nice definitions in Articles 93 and 92 of the previous law of duty and rights, I don't know the relationship between parents and children, it's now erased here. This is some kind of law on the technical functioning of the judiciary in the divorce and all possible litigation that can happen when family decay and all the bad things that could possibly happen when one family falls apart and all the consequences that could result from it so that we wouldn't miss anything by chance we'll always be taxing it into articles of the law that we'll call the Family Law. We introduce the term mediators of these mediators and that here's how much I've noticed and all the legislation knows whether they're called divorce mediators or marriage mediators, or that I don't know what kind of mediators we're creating here, a new class, a new group that will come, you'll see in the following years in the category of public notebooks. So we're going to get a group of people who are going to work on the market and charge their services because very quickly the system is going to be stifled and the welfare center will not be able to do this to that end and a new group of people will be created a new calling. This will be more or less formed, and here we will have another new divorceal public notary only with some other kind of job they are dealing with, with very clear tariffs and whose role they will then, in the years that come further in the next or amendments of this law or the laws that are coming further into it, will be seen, for example, soon that this plan, which these two sides will of course not be able to bring, will not be able to agree around it someone will have to intervene in all of this, and these mediators will be involved in that part of the divorce case or in some other parts of the court to solve it all. But to get back whatever I think is important. If we call the law Family Law, then it's family business. It is not necessary to align with the land everything that has been done so far with the Family Law and the previous and the one that has been so far and going to build a new one, but it is simply necessary to maintain some practice of legislative continuity and these laws gradually upgrade. To enable the case-law to be adapted to them, to introduce new instruments, to improve practice and not to do this kind of really unnecessary system experiments in some matter, which is not such and for which this should not be done. Here's what I think of all of this family law even regardless of its contents. And if my party had proposed it the same way they would have spoken, it's just that we don't have the need for this, for this way of destroying one system and building another. Is not the situation so bad, so dramatic, there are so many insurmountable obstacles that it could not have been possible to amend and supplement the existing law and gradually build a system to amend those provisions that need to be improved where there were problems, for example, in these marital litigation cases and all that was happening around them. Also following this item of the agenda, the Interim Maintenance Act follows. This law was to come before this Family Law precisely to move ahead with that measure. This measure did not move, and instead of the temporary maintenance being incorporated in these 560 articles of the law, 563 follow us now another Law on Temporary Restraint, and this is one practical measure where the state will cover some periods when one party does not pay child support. Thus, it could all be solved in a few more articles of the Family Law, not that we are now entering a space with another parallel law that can practically fully cover the Family Law. So, I think it would certainly be the happiest if the motionor would withdraw that law, and if he can't and doesn't want to withdraw it then, in the third reading, and that temporary abstention puts it through several articles because in addition to these 563 other 4 articles on temporary abstention, we will have another parallel law less, which is entirely part of this issue regarding these divorce cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79622	Thank you, too. We have two replicas, Miss twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79623	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Djurovic, I agree with you. Yes, and the past law was good and I agree that this technical processing and addition of new articles will not solve the problems of our families, indeed they will not. Because here he is, I'll only use the words of Tolstoy in Anna Karenina when he says that, or she says, "All happy families are like each other, and every unhappy family is in its own way." Here, in reality, that part of the family accident is going to be solved, it won't be like this. You really spoke well, and all the predecessors who spoke perhaps in this former law had a few more articles to be completed and what you are saying must be put into respect for one another within the family for other values. Okay, I'm speaking now as a Catholic and a believer and I think you should do it regardless of some kind of personal like we said every family has its own accidents. But I think we should give that dignity back. I have spoken before, and I think you agree that this dignity among other things, and unfortunately it has become something that is statusual because families unfortunately lost faith, have lost their faith, have lost their safety without material. And that's why we have such a big problem. And I really don't know those 563 articles of this law and the cold and technically processed I don't know what they're going to solve.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79624	Thank you. Answer. A colleague, Đurović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79625	Yes, well, we agree that in fact, the Family Law should also deal with family matters rather than just the consequences of family breakdowns in all these forms as they already happen. And just that part of the family's dealings, defining family, the relationship inside the family here is completely more or less missing. And there's one strangely imagined system where actually a child has the right to everything since the 14th year and parents just have to feed it to 26 I think if we just kind of simulate it. That's almost amazing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79626	Next replica Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79627	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, pal, I don't know if I've heard it right, but I think I did say that this law doesn't prescribe love, care in any article, but colleagues are emotions, they don't prescribe laws, laws serve something else, laws bring, protocol and conduct, but to protect those emotions, to protect love. In fact, the law also provides for the importance of concern, the law in articles cannot talk about love and concern, these are emotions that the law does not talk about. Thus, through this law we are basically protecting both love and concern. And through counselling, through mediation, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79628	There's no answer. This is what we're done with reporting for discussion. Final presentation of the Deputy Minister. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79629	Thank you for today's debate, and we will consider all the proposed amendments very carefully. With this only in the end, I would like to point out that the proposed amendments concerning the full equalisation of the marriage and the extramarital community and the opening of the possibility of adopting children to extramarital partners are absolutely acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79630	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79631	Now we're going to vote on the points of the agenda. Final proposal of the Family Law, second reading, P.Z. No. 544 The debate on the text of the law is over. In the light of the proposal of the HDZ Club of Representatives and the HDSSB's Club, I am voting on the following conclusion: - On the final proposal of the Family Law, the third reading will be carried out by raising your hand to declare who is in favour of this proposal. Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposal for a conclusion is not accepted. 22 votes, against 80 MPs and MPs, and 1 abstention, voted. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please make a statement. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 80 votes in favour, 23 votes against the motion to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to ask the Prime Minister's representative, Deputy Prime Minister Milanko Opačić, to explain Amendment No. 1 Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79632	Thank you, Mr. President. Amendment No. 1 A parent undertakes to inform the parents of an extramarital child who is not living together that they are obliged to draw up a joint parental care plan if they wish to take care of the child together or that one of the parents has the opportunity to ask the court for decisions based on parental care. In doing so, the parent of parents, among whom there is a dispute over the achievement of parental care for the child, will be informed of the possibility that the court will require a temporary measure that will be in place until the court proceedings are completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79633	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment No. 1 Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment No. 1 Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Can we get a score? I find that by a majority of votes, 80 votes in favour and 25 votes against, we have accepted Amendment No. 1 Government of the Republic of Croatia which has become an integral part of the final draft law. Amendment No. 2, Honorable Deputy Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79634	Amendment No. 2 the provision on child consent to easier medical procedures is amended to prevent possible abuses in such a way as to allow informed consent from 16 years of age instead of 14 years of age as stated in the final proposal of the Family Law. There have been a lot of amendments to this topic, which means that this amendment has in some way absorbed the amendments of individual clubs and individuals that have asked for this age limit to increase.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79635	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment 2. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I would like to make a statement to Amendment 2. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find amendment number two. The governments of the Republic of Croatia accepted most of the votes, 80 votes in favour and 25 abstentions. Thank you very much. We're moving on to the amendment table. Honored Deputy Prime Minister. Amendment number one. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79636	The amendment is not accepted, but the proposal does not comply with the law's intensities regarding primary protection of marriage.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79637	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment. Ante Babic is a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79638	It should not even be mentioned that this law actually came upon the condemnation of profession, associations and all kinds of Croatian public. But the proposed amendment aims to ensure the implementation of preventive and curative measures to protect marriage and family, which, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, is under the special protection of the state as well as respect for the legal protection of family life. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79639	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79640	I'm asking for a vote, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79641	Please state the amendment number one. A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm finding, I'm assessing that he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number one, the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79642	So in this form the amendment is not accepted because the meaning of this amendment is contained in the amendment to be adopted under number 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79643	Proposer of the amendment, respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79644	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm asking for a natural vote on this amendment. In my amendment, the club's amendment makes it clear that a new item is being introduced, discrimination against sex and violence against a partner is prohibited. Discrimination and violence are evil and against discrimination and violence we must fight very clearly and precisely, and if there is any need to install the state's determination to fight discrimination and violence it is then in Family Law. I'm not going to tell you all the information you all know about. Every third woman and this moment suffers violence. Women are most often exposed to violence and certainly children. And it's not just physical, it's economic violence that's getting stronger in times of crisis like today. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79645	I would like to make a statement on Amendment number two of the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment 3. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79646	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79647	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 4. The SDP and HNS Representatives Club together.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79648	The amendment is accepted with the note that there was one write error, so I have a new proposed item 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79649	Is that what it means to be accepted but in a changed form?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79650	So in paragraph 4, there has simply been one printing error here, but the amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79651	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. That's the mistake we're gonna erase. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 5. HDZ representative's club, respected Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79652	The amendment is not accepted, and the proposal does not comply with the intensities of the law, and introduces the concepts which are not subject to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79653	On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79654	In fact, by referring to the preparation programmes proposed for this amendment, and before the marriage itself, it is proposed to comply with the principle of protection of marriage and family. It is also necessary that those who enter the marriage community become familiar with the existence of a marriage program, such as marriage counselling at family centers, or family and marriage counselling centres, including those within religious communities and, above all, members of those religious communities who have concluded a marriage in religious terms. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79655	Please state the amendment number five. A HDZ representative club the government has not accepted. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate, he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number six of the same club of MPs, respected Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79656	It's unacceptable. The law doesn't know the definition of biological sex.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79657	He doesn't accept?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79658	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79659	On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79660	In fact, the existence of another marriage is an obstacle to the conclusion of a new marriage because the principle of monogamy protects dignity, the same value of every man and woman. The introduction of a registered life partnership as an obstacle to marriage is not legally possible because the institute does not exist at all in the Croatian legal system. He's not legal. And besides, a registered life partnership as a marital obstacle, that is, a type of second marriage would violate the constitutional provision that marriage is a life union of persons of different sex. The existing Institute of the same-sex community is intended for persons of the same sex, and marriage is according to the Constitutional definition of communities of persons of different sex. The same-sex community isn't a marriage and it can't be. The existence or absence of a life partnership cannot be an obstacle to marriage, not a pandan or another name for marriage. Because it's just not a marriage. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79661	Please state the amendment number six. A HDZ rep club the government didn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number seven of the same club of MPs, respected Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79662	The amendment is not accepted because it is necessary to comply with the provisions of a specific regulation governing the registered life partnership.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79663	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, honourable representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79664	Thank you very much. For the sake of legal certainty and protection of the institutions themselves, it is necessary to introduce an end to marriage under the very right of persons who have been granted a gender change in the motherhood of the born. Because for the purposes of legal traffic, let's say marriage would find two people of the same sex from a legal point of view, which would actually contradict the very constitutional definition of marriage itself. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79665	Are you asking for a vote? I would like to make a statement on Amendment 7 of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 8, the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor. Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79666	The same amendment and reasoning as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79667	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant, the applicant herself, the esteemed representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79668	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to pay good attention to what this is all about. It's not about the world's resistance. It's about legal reluctance. In this article that I propose to change, it is said that marriage cannot be made by a person who is married or in a registered life partnership. And we colleagues and colleagues do not yet have the Law on registered life partnership, this law has passed only the first reading of the law, the first reading in the Croatian Parliament, therefore this law does not exist because we have not voted on it and we in the Family Law cannot now prejudge the existence of something that does not exist. The law doesn't exist, when it exists, we can change family law and possibly introduce it, but now we don't. So, I suggest that the article then says marriage cannot be made by a person who is married and a point because I repeat, there is no law on registered life partnership in the Republic of Croatia, and it is not until this Parliament votes. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79669	Please state the amendment number 8 of the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor who is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 9 of the Club of Representatives of HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79670	The amendment is not accepted because the provision in question allows the registration of property on matrimonial property on the basis of a consensual statement of mates. That provision seeks to avoid legal uncertainty in real estate transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79671	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the honourable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79672	The HSU Club has given an amendment in good faith to leave more possibilities of agreement between the marriage partners and to speed up the procedure in any case. According to this, we remain on the claim that it was a quality amendment and we are asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79673	I would like to make a statement on Amendment 9 of the Club of Representatives of HSU which the Government does not accept. Who's in? I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment 10 of the HDZ Representatives Club. Honored Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79674	The amendment is not accepted because the government believes that gender change should be regulated by a special law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79675	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Honored Representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79676	In fact, this violates the constitutional definition of marriage, so here's the vote alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79677	Please state the amendment number 10 of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government has not accepted. Who's in? I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment number 11, the esteemed representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79678	The amendment is not accepted because the proposal does not comply with the intensities of the law, i.e. the concept of a contractual divorce and the procedure before the court.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79679	Dear applicant for the amendment, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79680	Thank you, Mr. President. So, I suggest that we amend this article so that it is enough for the court to divorce marriage, if one of the spouses claims that marital relations are difficult and permanently disturbed, and not as it is in the Government's proposal that he has to decide on it, or that the court may and may allow himself to claim that freedom based on experience, can and may misjudge, I will mention to you only one case of the judge who ruled that something is not rape, but that it is a handling thing. So it can even now judge and decide that women and children are not threatened by marriage if a woman is seeking divorce because of a permanent disorderd relationship because the court can assess that relations in this marriage are consistent and not allow the divorce of marriage, while keeping anyone in a community where people want to go out because of violence, or because they don't live together at all, the state has no right to do so. So the state has no right to interfere in family relations that way. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79681	Please state the amendment number 11 of the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor who was not accepted by the government. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 12 of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79682	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79683	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 13 of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79684	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79685	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 14 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79686	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79687	Thank you very much. Amendment number 15 of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79688	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79689	Thank you very much. Amendment number 16 of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79690	The amendment is not accepted because it does not comply with the current rules, in particular the Health Measures Act for the exercise of the right to free birth decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79691	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Honored Representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79692	In fact, this provision builds on the fourth principle of the declaration of the rights of the child accepted at the UN General Assembly in New York. The originally proposed provision, the child has the right to care for life and health should be replaced as extremely unquality because the right to care for life should be affirmed by the Constitution guaranteed a fundamental human right and the child’s right to life. The proposed provision may be interpreted ambiguously, i.e. as a child has the right to health which is nonsense because health is given, there is only the right to health care, care and health services. The European case-law highlights the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Federal Republic of Germany, since '75. the year in which the right to live stands out is guaranteed to anyone who lives between certain parts of life in development, before birth or between born and born there is no difference. Each, within the meaning of Article 2, paragraph 2 of the basic law of the German system, which determines everyone has the right to live is every living person, in other words every human individual who owns life is also an unborn human being. The Croatian Constitution in Article 21st paragraph 1 guarantees "every human being has the right to life", every human being has the natural right to life said in the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights of 16 December. And I remind the Court of Justice of the Union in Luxembourg in paragraph 35 of Oliver Bristol's judgment against Green Peace of 18 June 2011 states that "every human egg must be considered as a human embryo in terms of and for the purpose of applying Article 6 paragraph C, and the same directive "because its commercial exploitation would be contrary to public order or morals, since the fertilisation of what the human being's development process begins". Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79693	Please state the amendment number 16. A HDZ representative club the government has not accepted. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the required majority by grading. Amendment number 17 of the Croatian Party of Retirement Representatives Club in the Croatian Parliament. Honorable Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79694	The amendment is not accepted in this form but the intensity of the amendment has been accepted through the amendment of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79695	In the name of the applicant, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79696	Since the intention is consummated by the amendment of the government, I am withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79697	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment number 18 of the HDZ Representatives Club. Dear Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79698	The amendment is not accepted because raising children is one of the contents of parental care contained in the law in Article 92. And Article 104 of this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79699	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, honourable representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79700	The proposed first paragraph of this amendment is in fact the provision of Article 92(1). The 1998 Family Law which returns to the content of the law with this amendment. The second paragraph is a literal provision of Article 18. UN General Declaration on Human Rights of 10 December 1948 in Article 9(1). European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of 4 November 1950, Article 18(1). International Agreement on Civil and Political Rights of 15 December 1966, Article 1(1) Declaration by the UN on the abolition of all forms of intolerance and discrimination on the basis of religion or beliefs of 25 November 1981 and Article 12(1). The UN Convention on the Protection of the Rights of Workers of Immigrants and Members of their Family since 18 December 1990. The proposed paragraphs 3 to 8 are paragraphs 2 to 7 as proposed only in the amended order. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79701	I'd like to make a statement on Amendment 18. A HDZ representative club the government has not accepted. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the required majority by grading. Amendment number 19 of the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79702	The amendment is not accepted because the principle of protection of the child’s interest and well-being in achieving a child’s personal relationship with other persons is contained in Article 5. The law adds to its additional emphasis throughout the law unnecessarily burdens the text.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79703	She's a very respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79704	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Namely, the article I propose to supplement the amendment reads "the parent who lives with the child has the responsibility and responsibility to enable and encourage the achievement of the child's personal relations with another parent", and the amendment is if it is for the child's benefit. Namely, a parent who can handle a child if he does not encourage relations with another parent may also not have to bear sanctions under the law because he has to be a child in the first place, encouraging a relationship with another parent if this is to the harm of the child. So the parent with whom the child lives does not have to in my opinion encourage personal encounters if the other parent is a drunkard, a gambler, a bully, if he has put family and child survival at risk before that. I'm proposing a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79705	I'd like to make a statement on Amendment 19. Honorable representatives of Jadranka Kosor whom the government has not accepted. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 20 of the Legislative Committee. Honorable Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79706	Mr. President, maybe we should speed up a little bit. I would like to say that the government accepts amendments to the Legislative Committee of 20,21,22 and accepts the amendment of the SDP and HNS Club of Representatives under number 23.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79707	Thank you very much. This becomes an integral part of these amendments to the final draft law. Then let's go to amendment number 24 of HSU's representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79708	Yes, the HSU Club is not accepted in this form because it was accepted under Amendment 23.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79709	On behalf of the applicant, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79710	The stronger brothers have the advantage, so I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79711	That's how it is in life. Amendment number 25 of the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79712	It was also accepted through amendment number 23.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79713	It accepts such an amendment. Amendment number 26 of the SDP and HNS Representatives Club clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79714	And here I'll try to simplify you a little bit. The SDP and HNS Representatives Club under regular number 26.27 is hereby adopted. The Legislative Committee under Rule 28 and 29 shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79715	Thank you very much. Then let's go to Amendment 30 of the Honored Vice-President of the HSU Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79716	Number 30 is not accepted because it is the same way of expressing will as in the case of a will, which means it can be revoked.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79717	In the name of the applicant, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79718	Dear Madam Minister, I think that there is much that has been put into this item 2.I would not quite accept in my life that this is being solved by public record, and that it is precisely deciding on the termination of pregnancy, sterilization, donation of tissues and organs, participation in biometric research, measures to maintain life because the concept of business ability itself is very discriminatory and very dissipative. I mean O.K. If someone is able to do business and decide to donate tissues and organs, to participate in biometric research, I could accept that. But I can't accept that a man with a keen notion of business ability decides on life support measures or termination of pregnancy, sterilization. We have two ideas that we thought it would be better if this item didn't have this court as such, we're doing it by court practice, so we think this was a good amendment and it's a shame that you didn't accept it. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79719	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment No. 30. The HSU's representative club the government didn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 31. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79720	Amendments 31 and 32 shall be adopted. SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79721	Thank you very much. They became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. The 33rd Honored Representatives of Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79722	It is not accepted in this form because it has actually been accepted through the acceptance of previous amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79723	There's no esteemed representative, we have to make a statement. Who's for Amendment No. 33, which government doesn't accept? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 34. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79724	The Committees, therefore the amendments to the Legislative Committee from the regular number 34 to 37, are hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79725	Thank you very much. They became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 38. HSU counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79726	It is accepted in the modified form by the words "other than in cases of domestic violence" are added in Article 417(1), point two behind the word "family mediation".
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79727	On behalf of the applicant, the amendments are respected Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Sustained.]] Accepted in modified form. Amendment No. 39. HSU counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79728	This amendment shall not be accepted because this provision of Article 418 is in line with other provisions of the law as well as with international documents governing this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79729	In the name of the applicant, the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79730	We thought this article, what we suggested was much more practical, opened up more possibilities. We don't think accepting this amendment would hurt the quality of the law, we stay in our position, so please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79731	Please state the amendment No. 39. The club of representatives of HSU in the Croatian Parliament that the government did not accept. Who's in? I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 40. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79732	So you're not accepting a provision on... the reasons for these decisions have been introduced to protect the child's interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, it can be published on the court’s notice board, which could damage the child’s interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79733	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, honourable representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79734	It should be said here that the court in family matters is not only bound by the will of the parties but also acts on official duty. And the reason for the decision is necessary to control the court's work and explain the reasons why the court decided as it had decided. The decision must therefore be reasoned. And the argument may be that the court heard the parties and found that they agreed but the decision cannot be without any justification. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79735	Please state the amendment No. 40. A HDZ representative club the government has not accepted. Who's in? I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 41. Legislative Committee, Honored Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79736	The amendments of the Legislative Committee from 41 to 46 are hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79737	Thank you very much. They became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 47th Honored Representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79738	It is not accepted because the matter in question is governed by the rules governing procedural issues in the executive procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79739	Dear MPs are gone in the Assembly. We'll have to make a statement. Who's for Amendment No. The 47th Honored Representatives Nancy Tyrelli, whom the government did not accept? Who's in? I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment 48. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79740	Amendments 48 and 49 shall be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79741	Thank you very much. They became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 50th of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79742	The Legislative Committee, therefore, is accepted in a modified form in a way that reads: "Article 562. is amended and reads as follows: Family Law, National No. 116/03. 17/04, 136/04, 107/07, 57/11, 61/11. and 25/13. This Decision shall enter into force on 1 September 2014. A year.".
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79743	Thank you very much. A new formulation has been adopted on behalf of the Legislative Committee. [[Intruder: Sustained.]] Amendment No. 51st of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79744	Accepts the same in changed form in a way that reads, I'm just asking if I have to read everything or can you?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79745	Okay, so we've had the same shape changed since 1 September 2014. [[You don't have to.]] Accepted in modified form? ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Amendment No. 52. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79746	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79747	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, honourable representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79748	Thank you very much. The final proposal, in fact, makes this Family Law an out-of-date total case law and the expertise of judges, lawyers and social workers in applying the current Family Law, which, by hastening to the effect of this law, fully endangers the quality of legal certainty. In a situation where procedures to determine parental care, this first decision takes many years when some judges still judge by old regulations and use old formulations, they trust children to guard and raise under the '98 Family Law. year, radically changing family law. Family law in order to be applicable must be clear, known and accepted in the social environment. Paper reforms without logistics that follow them are pointless and in this reform Croatian family law is partly turned to German and Austrian solutions, forgetting that Croatia has no service service, family courts and appropriate family experts. In reality, it is impossible and legally unacceptable for the adjustment period of the new law to vacatio legis from 563 articles proposed on 339 pages to be only 8 days or at best for 555 of its articles only until 1 July 2014. It is not possible for judges to be able to apply such a comprehensive regulation so quickly that it makes a different concept of family legislation. For such a comprehensive law, appropriate education and comprehensive preparation should be implemented and the law is proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2016, which is logical. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79749	I would like to make a statement about the amendment of the HDZ Representatives' Club number 52, which the government does not accept. Who's in? I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 79 votes in favour, 15 votes against and 3 abstentions, have been passed the Family Law in the text as proposed by the proposing, along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79750	We continue with: - Proposal for a Law on Temporary Maintenance, first reading, P.Z. No. 656; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You've received reports. On behalf of the Vice-President, introduction. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79751	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. The proposed Provisional Maintenance Act regulates the area of temporary child restraint as the Institute for the Protection of Child's Legal Rights to maintain in accordance with modern European legislative practice. Subject matter is currently regulated in several articles of the current Family Law. In view of the indeterminate nature of these provisions, insufficiently defined assumptions for the exercise of the right to temporary abstention, unclear provisions on the duration and height of that right, and an insufficiently defined procedure for the repayment of the funds paid by the debtors to the State budget, a new law has been drawn up to regulate that area in detail. The proposed law regulates the Institute of Temporary Maintenance more systematically, more clearly and fully, respecting the problems encountered in practice in the application of the Institute. In this respect, the obligation to abstain by grandparents and children by a parent who does not pay child restraint shall be updated, setting the amount of temporary abstention, taking into account also the cases where the executive correction by which the child restraint obligation is determined is the amount of the maintenance determined below the amount of temporary maintenance. The proposed law defines the recognition of the right to temporary abstention in the case of partial non-payment to the amount of temporary abstention, a shorter period which must elapse from the decision-making of power before which an application for temporary detention cannot be submitted for a three-month period, subject to mandatory initiation of the executive procedure. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the proposal for a law that lies before you will prevent a number of abuses by abstention officers that have been observed so far in the application of the Institute of Temporary Restraint. The maintenance undertaking will no longer be able to prevent a child from exercising his right to temporary maintenance through one partial maintenance payments. Furthermore, this bill addresses another burning problem related to the Institute of Temporary Restraint, which is the inability to repay paid funds to the state budget. This proposal for the first time clearly and in detail defines the procedure for returning the paid amount of temporary maintenance, taking into account its simplification and efficiency in such a way that the Republic of Croatia, by paying itself the amount of temporary detention of the child into the legal position and passing on to it the maintenance claims at the level of the amount paid with all secondary rights. In accordance with the proposed law, the Social Care Centre makes a solution every year which requires the abstentionary to repay the Republic to Croatia the funds paid on the basis of temporary maintenance. This solution is an executive document based on the procedure of the competent State Attorney's Office for the payment of temporary maintenance funds in favour of the State budget, which will lead to the avoidance of the management of long-term litigation cases against abstention holders in order to repay the amounts paid and have a positive impact on the state budget. In fact, it should be noted that the budget of the Republic of Croatia annually spends around 29 million kuna on temporary child restraint and the right of the Republic of Croatia to charge the assets in question from real abstentions remains often unrealized just for insufficiently defined recovery proceedings. Furthermore, the law in question first defines the supervision of the implementation of the law, i.e. the Institute of Temporary Child Restraint, the keeping of an eyewitness of all decisions on the recognition of the right to temporary abstention, the automatic harmonisation of the amount of temporary abstention in the event of a change in the basis for its determination, the compensation of damages and infringements in the event of non-compliance with the law. The adoption of this law will make significant steps, first of all towards stronger and more effective protection of the child's right to restraint, will allow for the uniform treatment of social care centres and state attorneys and will significantly facilitate the determination of the right to temporary detention, as well as the procedure for the reimbursement of the amount of temporary abstention paid by the obligor. Since the final proposal for the Family Law has left out the provisions on temporary maintenance in order to avoid legal gaps in the regulation of this area, the entry into force and the Provisional Restraint Act, as well as the Family Act, are envisaged. Following all of this, I call on you to support the proposal for a law on temporary abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79752	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of SDP representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79753	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed deputy minister with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The SDP club supports the adoption of a proposal for a temporary abstention law. I think he's in the good part complemented by the law we've been discussing right now, with a family law that has a whole head of restraint, above all about child restraint. When we talked about family law, then we talked about the care of parents, about the sanctity of family, about love, about attention, but what do we have in reality? I think a much more serious debate would be if we returned to reality, if we were to support responsible parents and end up being irresponsible parents. That is why, however, this is not a problem unfortunately only for Croatia, so it still kind of discourages us, so in much more developed countries with a much longer-term democracy, the country is powerful enough to oppose large-scale organised crime, and it cannot pay one father to support his own child. There are many countries that have proved powerless, and that is why this law is too. Such a law, the Law of Temporary Maintenance has many countries and more than 10 years in Europe, so long before we do, which is amazing. So after a painful lawsuit about the divorce that determines and the child’s restraint, where the court generally also adopts a temporary measure of restraint because it often happens that these litigations become difficult, and the child has to live, and then a temporary measure is taken. Unfortunately, we have had such cases that a temporary measure is only taken with the decision itself, which then a temporary measure loses any sense at all. But this has nothing to do with this, but I'd like to point out how long this trip takes so that the child can get what's rightfully his, his, his, his, his, his, his, his, his, his, his, his, his, his, his, his, his, his, his, his, his, his, his, his, his, his, his, his, his, his, his. Therefore, when the whole procedure is completed before the administrative body or before the court, whether it is temporary restraint or a decision on restraint, what is it then to come to an end. How do you execute that decision? There are those who often drill into their chests as they love their family, their children, flee from their obligation, flee from their own children. And the imagination of how to avoid supporting one’s own child achieves almost unsuspecting proportions. There's really a lot of imagination. The property is transferred, income is reduced, so it's hard to get the right data and even when it comes to them, there's a second round, how to defuse that performance. Although there are special offences, non-execution of a decision on minors, then termination or avoidance of their duties only in order to defuse the payment of abstention is also a special offence. However, such a tenacity not to pay for the support of its own child is not expressed anywhere as in this segment and that is something to worry about. So, some of these go out of sacrifice, and we're not talking about irresponsible ones, we need to talk about irresponsible parents here, and there are. Fortunately, they are in minority and parents generally do everything for their own children, but here we are talking about these irresponsible parents. And then the state takes over, what it does, the state takes over exactly that obligation that parents or one of them had to commit. However, we gave special authority to the state's attorney's office that later this version request requires a parent like that to settle what the state has given. This certainly burdens the work of the State Attorney's Office, also burdens the State budget, and especially the work of the State's Attorney's Office not only in this criminal, but above all, and in this civil department. So far we went even if we had been in recent changes, it's already been a few years since the Family Law changed that not only parents are responsible for children, but we even went for grandparents. Personally, I'm speaking for the club right now, but we're also going to think about it because grandparents don't have any rights to the child. They only have the right to see him, but they can't interfere in breeding. But they have to pay and they can't support themselves and they have irresponsible children who created their own children without asking them and they've become grandparents, of course they're looking forward to it. And some can pay, but most can't pay. Therefore, this should also be taken into account. But I think that the case law has stood there and it really protects you as a rule of poor grandparents and such an obligation because of irresponsible parents falling to the state. But one country that has decided to take care of the weakest ones, and these are children, so even when in an adequate way, it cannot quickly carry out such a decision takes on its own responsibility. I would like to point out here in the provision of Articles 12 and 13 where we are talking about who the party is in the process, which are parties in the process and representing the child in the process, so it is quite correct that the parties are in the process... rights to temporary child restraint, maintenance obligation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the parent with whom the child lives is not a party to the proceedings because not only does this result from legal interpretation, from the legal definition and rules of interpretation in the second article, so you can see who is the representative of the child, who are the parties, but also in Article 13 who explicitly says who represents the child in the procedure. Therefore, there can be no representative and party in the process at the same time, so here was the suggestion to delete the parent whose child lives as a party in the process because he does not seek anything for himself. These are interesting litigations she took my money from me. He doesn't understand that, most of the time, it's how men are defended when defendants are in the process of supporting their own child. She says she took from me, a mother who was designated as a guardian, a legal representative that she took from him. I'm not gonna pay her for her makeup and I don't know what kind of parties, and the baby has to live. Or if the child didn't receive restraint for five years so that he could say so he didn't need it because he survived. So there's this difficult situation, I wouldn't want to bother. Therefore, the SDP club supports this proposal for a temporary abstention law. We believe that this will effectively give the child the necessary restraint but that it will not slow down the state and in some ways the easiest way to pay it rather than just continue to seek not only by version law, but by the efficiency of the exercise, that the state is effective, then the need to apply this law will be less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79754	Thank you, too, dear fellow MP. We have a replica of the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79755	Madam Representatives Ingrid Antičević-Marinović agrees with you that the state is unfortunately unable to prescribe neither love nor family idyll but can fulfill obligations to children, old, powerless. So according to family members to whom there is a commitment. And in that sense, the state must be determined. And I agree when you said they're the ones who want to play their part. These are unfortunately when we talk about parents, unfortunately, mostly men, so fathers. Then, in this sense, they are infinitely conceited, and no matter what moral principles they are called upon, they are infinitely long and ready to lie and cheat. And that's why the state must have absolutely no mercy towards them. I support this idea only as my objection and my observation in the assessment of the funds necessary for the implementation of the law is not sufficient to indicate that these funds are within the intended resources of the ministry, but that amount of funds for which we are to be clearly and precisely demonstrated in order for the applicant's intention to be truly experienced and taken seriously.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79756	Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79757	Here are the honourable MPs, here where you replicate and practically agree with this part where defendants like those who are obliged to support their own child, because they want to avoid that obligation to do so, and the Annual Report of the State's Attorney's Office warns and proposes that the amendments to the law that were not done last year. Here's what's done right now, so we believe it's not just going to sort of relieve them. Now the state has taken over my commitment, rather than that. It is precisely by making amendments, that is, by adopting this bill that parallelly strengthens the desire of the institutions and the state to charge exactly from the fathers of those who are obliged to abstain or mothers, which is a rarer phenomenon. Therefore, that it does not smudge institutions but also the one who is a obligor, the primary obligor of restraint.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79758	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the HDZ advocates' club and respected representative Nada Murganic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79759	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister and Associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here I will pass through the law, through some articles on behalf of the HDZ Club with the intention of contributing to the debate in terms of improving this law that I think we will agree to is seen from an earlier debate that is really extremely important. The Institute of Temporary Restraint exists and has been established in the Family Law since 2003 to Articles 244 and 352 where it is mentioned about the maintenance, the temporary maintenance, and the current Family Law, in Article 237 of the article, discusses the submission of a criminal application and the return of the funds of that parent who avoids abstention under orders or regulations carried out by the Centre for Social Care which is missing in this proposal, but in some ways it has been quite a good measure. However, under this proposal, temporary abstention is set out in the Family Law. That may well be because we see from a debate that lasts all day long more or less, we all said that this law is insane. However, it seems to me that even though this law has 42 articles on several pages, I think it is too much to say for what it has managed to say, and I have few observations that certain areas are very vaguely defined, some articles are in collapsing and through the further part of the debate I will try and point out. In fact, Article 7 is questionable. It introduces generation solidarity and this proposal says that if a parent who does not live with a child fails to fulfil the requirement of maintenance in full or partly on the basis of an executive document and if it appears likely that grandfather and grandmother are not able to meet his minimum maintenance needs, then the right to temporary restraint is exercised. There's a basic objection to what's really very difficult to read, what does that mean if it's made possible? Any monetary obligation should be determined and determined, it should enable both the executive procedure and the grandparents to have that obligation if it is carried out by the court's decision to settle that payment by an equally executive procedure, and if it does not reach that end, it should not really stand there or stand. I repeat, the law should be clear to everyone, the law should be clear especially because this law is an impression written to an average population who, without any lawyers or intermediaries, should know how to exercise his rights. Article 12 refers to party capacity and states who all parties are in the process. Everything implemented in social care centres is implemented under the Administrative Procedure Act. The law on administrative procedure goes beyond what all party abilities are, here it is said to be a child, a parent with whom a child lives, or another person. I don't think the child has to be a party in the process, he's the basis of that procedure at all, and that part is possible, it doesn't matter, but we don't think he should be standing there. Article 13 introduces that a child must have a special guardian. We think it will delay the procedure for the reason that the aim and intention of this law is to make these funds happen as quickly as possible. The appointment of a special custodian requires both time and money, and it is not necessary for the reason that the child and the parent where the child are resident are not in college because the property obligation is actually determined by the other parent rather than the one where the child lives. And it's quite enough for that child to represent that parent. In Article 14, we believe that there is one equally clumsy determination, related to the non-restraint requirement being heard in the process if this would delay the procedure. This is contrary to constitutional law as set out in Article 26 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The constitution where the abstention officer puts himself in a more unfavourable position no matter how angry we are and how angry he is, and here we've heard a lot in that sense of opinion, yes, but all persons are in court equal. This is also the derivation of the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act, where it is said that each party has the right to participate in the procedure, to propose evidence in the procedure, to manifest itself on the evidence provided, etc. In Article 16, the taxing list in which the request is to be rejected is in fact impractical because it may occur that predetermining some options will open up the possibility of legal void if all awakenings will not be able to count and we think it is not good to list it, but it would be quite enough to say that the request is rejected when it is not established. But it can be further upgraded and upgraded. Also, Article 18 tells what the content of the solution is, the Law on Administrative Procedure correctly states that the solution must look and Article 98 says that each sentence of the solution must be short and a specific amount must only be specified in particular, changes can be changed. Therefore, Article 22, where the height of temporary restraint is automatically aligned, we think it is not good. Social services centres have a one-year review obligation and only an additional solution can be changed if there is a change to the property situation or decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the amount of temporary maintenance by an additional solution. What confuses me the most is Article 25, so far it has been made clear that the right to temporary restraint has, realizes and a child as a pay-off on the burden of the state budget notified by the Centre for Social Care, the municipal state attorney may request back from the abstention officer through a request to repay funds to the state budget. Therefore, Article 25 should make it clear who, what, who, who, and how should be returned under what conditions. However, this article is really confusing and I think the regulations should be simple to understand them all and I think that this can be really improved in the next reading. It is also not clear in Article 26, 27, which, in my opinion, is here totally in cohesion because it is not known who determines the obligation to repay those funds, whether the Social Care Centre or the State Attorney's Office. If that's what the welfare center is doing, what documents it's doing and what it's doing. Decisions requiring payment are made by courts. Such a model of social care centres would in some way be a parajudicial institution and this is not in line with the Social Care Act because centres do not have the authority to resolve issues and to make those decisions requiring payments. The real effect of this law could bring confusion. So, in order not to be considered, and immediately I want to resolve we support all the good intentions resulting from the creation of the Institute of Temporary Restraint so that children are not denied because of parental irresponsibility, that the parent who has the means to support his child and he avoids maintaining it, certainly by punishing and returning funds certainly to the state budget. The criminal proceedings under this law are avoided, it no longer exists, but we think that the way it was written, lawyers say nomotechnically arranged, is not clear and there will be confusion, there will be confusion. We think it will disable further payments of temporary restraint, that it will reduce the number of users especially if this is not resolved, this question about grandparents. Because if you really think about this law that you will remain the obligation of grandfathers and grandparents to abstain, that they are also involved in the maintenance, then it will invariably delay the process, or the deadlines for the exercise of the right to abstain, because that provision about the height of the restraint, so that alimony that is in the marital judgment of the father or mother, has no bearing on which parent, is not binding on both grandparents and grandparents. Therefore, the parent with whom the child lives would have to sue Grandpa and Grandma to then determine their height of restraint, in case they avoid going back to the executive procedure, and this could indeed lead to doubts whether the legislator wanted the deadline to be reduced from the previous 6 or 7 months to 3 months, as the proposal puts it, or only by introducing this generational model of solidarity to delay the process. Therefore, Articles 7 and 14 should, in that respect, be clearly specified, that this should otherwise be made clear that, as with the replacement of supplies under the Law on the Rights of the Croatian Lawyers with the guaranteed compensation under the Social Care Act, there could be a drastic reduction in the rights of those who need this right.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79760	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Now we have three replicas inside the club. Dear Representative Tomislav Klaric is the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79761	Dear fellow MPs, you mentioned article 25, and there is nothing more valuable to me than a man can have than a child who you created and who you have to worry about. This is where grandparents are mentioned, if you park anywhere here in Zagreb, you pay the car for half an hour, half an hour, after that half an hour, you already have a fine of 100 kuna under the wiper. Here by these articles as they are classified gives you, this parent who doesn't care about his child the possibility of even complaining about a solution, for someone who paid for his child to live somewhat normally. And I fully agree with you that these articles, just in Article 25, Article 26, Article 28, should be completed exactly in this sense, as you said and defined the part relating to grandparents. To throw all the burden in this sense at Grandpa and Grandma, and having living parents who don't take care of their children, I think it's at least questionable. So the criminal provisions on this matter must be very clear, defined, with very short deadlines and without any complaints about any kind of solution because from the state budget someone is paid for his child in order for that child to function normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79762	A new replica of Đurjica Sumrak's respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79763	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So here's one piece of my replica was just tied up by a distinguished colleague of mine who spoke to you earlier, but I agree with you and in your entire debate and would support it. Not because we're from a club together, sure as you're thinking we should punish irresponsible parents, we should really be punished. But you see what I think, and that's what we were talking about, the former ministry was called the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity. Today's ministry is called the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. What is the importance of intergenerational solidarity and family and of course the importance of Croatian defenders has just been given in this title of the former ministry. I don't know before today since the morning we talked about Family Law, some of them say love can't be prescribed, I can't agree, sure as hell not. The preamble of some laws such as Family Law in which I feel the same as you that perhaps this abstention could be resolved shorter, more quickly and put into this Family Law, but perhaps the preamble of this law should speak of this intergenerational solidarity about love of respect, but it is impossible because neither the ministry is competent, the minister was not with us today, at all, but simply abolished something that gave hope that this family and the intergenerational solidarity and Croatian defenders are somewhere in the centre of the state at the heart of our Croatia to take care of them in a special way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79764	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79765	Dear colleagues, here I am indeed on behalf of the club, so on behalf of all of us, but always the rapporteur gives some tone of discussion that stands out on behalf of the club, but I hope that I have been able to convey our view that it is certainly necessary to enable the child to be held accountable by the parents who are obliged to support him and that the law should be allowed to help to support the child in some way by means of the state budget. And that is why we want the articles of the law that are now in our debate to be clear, that we know exactly whether it is a matter of making it easier to exercise the right to temporary abstention, that this deadline for the exercise of that right will be shorter and that what we fully support should be required to ensure the return of funds to the state budget than who was a maintenance officer. So, the intention of this law is good if it is so clear in the articles, and if there are any doubts left, if there is a legal gap, if there is a possibility that due to the legal regulations that are mostly unsettled with us, and from our Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, strangely written laws that are very extensive but that are not precise, which are in collegiate with each other. We appeal once again to improve these articles and to make it clear whether it is going to facilitate and improve the conditions for the exercise of that right or whether it will be delayed due to the introduction of Article 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79766	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79767	Thank you very much. You are absolutely right that this law that should resolve life's dramas to those at which we are most sensitive, which are children, is not sufficiently constructive and the key provisions are set at the principle level. The State has an instrument based on which it can establish the property status of one of the parent of the one who is a abstentionary, however neither in the reasoning of the law nor in any article of this law does this instrument mention it, which is the OIB. And it's high time this government stopped running from the OIB. and one of the reasons for the introduction of the OIB was, among other things, solving these problems and resolving social policy because without timely information on the property situation of whoever wants the state to pay him what his obligation is, we will never solve this problem and this law will not be applicable. And the other thing, we also have the Act of Conduct or the Executive Law, so I don't think there should be too much to talk about, but it should have been incorporated into two or three articles of this law. And we also voted in this House of Commons on fiscal responsibility, and it came into effect if I am not mistaken two months ago, and then we have defined by that law that during each proposal of this law, that proponent must, among other things, indicate instead of this corny phrase, an assessment of the sources of funds needed to implement this law, an assessment of the fiscal impact of this law. There are no estimates of the fiscal impact of this law, and Croatia is in the measures of an excessive deficit, and that is what it says today tomorrow if it spends what is supposed to be secured at 102, and we do not know how much it is, that this law will not be implemented and will be broken again over the back of those who are the most inoperable and whose assistance is most important and important. So, the state has the instruments only question whether we want to install from this or that law into the law and implement these laws because social policy cannot be implemented over whoever has some property that is far beyond his social... /The speaker is not understood.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79768	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79769	Well, here, I'll be brief. Comrade Shuker, I agree with you that the OIB is an instrument by which we come very easily to data on all and income, property and any other income and the state of each user. Both the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and many of our ministries are seen in information, centralisation, in the collection of unique data, invested a lot of funds and we hope that they will bear fruit. And indeed through the OIB and through an information system that can enter and enter the state, I don't know both accounts and banks, you can trace those who have the means to avoid supporting your child. But also exploiting the social resources that are really meant for those who are very much needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79770	Thank you very much. It is up to the Club of Representatives at the Croatian Labour Assembly and the esteemed representative of Nenad Plesa. How's the accent, buddy? He's dancing. Short, okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79771	President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished deputy ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. In front of us is the proposal for a law on temporary abstention as a product of the Family Law and adopted as a special regulation in order to protect children's rights of restraint more effectively and efficiently. So when it comes to the rights of the child, by supporting them, then I would blow up two arms for such laws. Well, the child's right to detention is if the abstention obligation for more than three months uninterrupted from the date of initiation of the executive procedure for the purpose of maintenance does not fulfil its obligation. Then that restraint obligation goes to grandparents. And what happens in today's situation when it's hard to live and when the pensions of grandparents are probably too small and ends up ending so that these grandparents can take responsibility or fulfil their obligation. A child's right can benefit for the longest time in three years, and it's particularly bothering me now why it's three years and what three years it is. Whether it's from first to fourth, fourth to seventh, or when the kid goes to school. This level of temporary maintenance is 50% of the required minimum maintenance, which is 17% of the average salary paid in the Republic of Croatia for children up to 6 years of age, and this 50% amounts to some 465 kuna. For children aged 7 to 12, this amount is 547 kuna, etc. I found information that in 2010 in the Republic of Croatia 40,000 children did not receive alimony. In 2012, this data was that 60,000 children were not receiving. I'm afraid to think that at such a pace in 2014 80,000 children may not receive alimony. And when those 60,000 children received that minimum temporary maintenance of 465 kuna, it would cost the state some 334 million kuna. At the position of the Ministry of Maintenance and Temporary Child Support, 102 31 million and 800 thousand kuna are secured. It's only 10% of what you might be looking for and we're talking about children's rights. I'll just go through the articles of the proposed law and I'll touch Article 14 where it's spoken if it can't be proved. the inability to abstain from the parents referred to in Article 7(1) of this Act is sufficient to make them likely on the basis of the true statement of the parents with whom the child resides. The protection provided for in this Article is in Article 3 for the truthfulness of statements and the accuracy of the particulars given by the party in the procedure to be relevant materially and criminally. I wonder why such a provision when it can be checked through the Social Care Centre or the Tax Administration and through the OIB and Assets and Receipts. Further in Article 15, we are talking about hearings of abstention officials. The restraint undertaking will be heard in the procedure unless this would delay the procedure. So I think that the abstention officer must be heard and the opportunity to express his opinion must be highlighted unless he responds to calls for a hearing then the procedure should certainly be shortened. In Article 17, we have the costs of the procedure. The funds for regular costs and procedures carried out by the centre shall be provided in the national budget. So I am now interested in whether these funding funds for temporary maintenance are planned within the limits of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, or whether they are other funds from another position. Article 27 states that paragraph 1. "The centre will, according to official duty, make a decision to order the abstention officer to pay the Republic of Croatia within 8 days the amount of temporary abstention paid for each one-year or shorter payment period if the temporary maintenance lasted less than one year with the corresponding tight interest. And what will happen if the centre or the Republic of Croatia cannot charge if there is no possibility, or no income from the abstentionary, how will we recover those funds. Also, whether there is a possibility that a abstentionary will abuse it, so that it will allow for the income of some 50% of the compulsory child restraint. If he abuses that provision at the end of the year gets an account from the centre, he pays those 50% of the funds, what will be with those other 50% of the funds he or she had to pay to support his child. In the end, I would return to the consequences that this law will take place, so you stated that the social care centre every year provides a solution that requires the father to return to the Republic of Croatia the funds paid on the basis of temporary maintenance. Why, Father, can't it be a mother? So it's supposed to be a liability of restraint. This law simplifies the reimbursement and insurance of funds paid for temporary maintenance. For these reasons, I would be free to propose that it should be considered to extend the right to temporary abstention to more than 3 years and to adult children while they are schooling or finishing college as otherwise stated in the provisions of the Family Law in Article 290. Supporting an adult child. Here's so short. We will certainly support this bill in this first reading, and I would like to think about these cartoons and install them into the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79772	Thank you, dear fellow Dancer. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the HDSSB advocates' club and respected representative Drazen Djurovic. Here's my colleague Đurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79773	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs. I actually said when it came to family law. I can do it again when it comes to this wheel. So, temporary restraint through several provisions, it doesn't have to be this 30th, it could be less, it could actually be incorporated into that huge family law. When there was room for 530 articles, there would be another 20 articles because it is actually directly related to the problem that has been addressed in the Family Law. And it is actually unclear why it then appears as a separate law because the very proposal for this material states that the adoption of a new Family Law is under way and that, in fact, in the future, the final proposal of the Family Law will determine that certain provisions will come into force as of July 1st. In order to avoid legal vacuuming, this special regulation shall be drawn up. The family law will not likely enter or enter immediately before July 1st. Therefore, it remains unclear why this law stands as some kind of sui generis law separate and represents a separate legal norm practically in the same area as the Family Law. So that temporary restraint is in itself a measure that is fine. There is a way that the state takes the obligation to pay when someone does not pay off their parental obligation or alimony. I might have a few questions. First question what a colleague said three years ago. According to the available data in the Federal Republic of Germany for 6 years, this obligation in Austria is 5 years, and here we have chosen some three-year obligation of temporary restraint. That's one question. Well, perhaps the Republic of Croatia has no more financial resources, so it can only cover one of these obligations for three years, for example. And the second question that I am being asked is why the administrative procedure takes place through the Social Care Centre, and that includes the state's attorney's office. What does this remind me of? This reminds me, in fact, of the lack of coordination and inter-resorship cooperation between the state ministries because it seems to me, so this is actually one procedure in which some state-run or currency is issued for some amount, and then a return will be made. The procedure goes through the Social Care Centre, return via the State Attorney's Office and its civil department. With little cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the use of the OIB as the colleague said, it could probably have been much more effective, for example with the Ministry of Finance and through the FINA because it is de facto only a state payment if the procedure should be established, followed and the payment completed. Why social care centres actually here, I don't know how much they're humane in the first place, and if these kinds of jobs have worked that they're actually determining that there's a need for some kind of charge, that this bill is done, that there's a return. They're, I can't see. I have a feeling that it actually ended up here at social care centers just because they're falling under your ministry's portfolio and that no one's working or not working, then you round it up together within your ministry. Although I'm saying, we have a FINA that does all the forms of performance, so it can also carry out this kind of work on the way back, or it de facto says some kind of cessium or note that the state pays in case someone messy pays it and doesn't actually pay the alimony. And they already have established mechanisms, mechanisms and payments and money returns in various other cases. I think we'd actually be more effective on the one hand, and on the other hand we wouldn't be burdening the state's attorney's office who has a lot to do, and actually not being in his civic department. There will be a large number of these cases, and the question is how much should it actually fall under the work of the State's Attorney's Office in the first place. So the proposal is under one that I said previously in the law, actually this law corrogates into the Family Law where those 500 and some articles there and these twenty. Secondly, to think or at least explain why for three years, not five or six like in Germany and Austria. And third, to see if this mechanism, the established mechanism of administrative procedure through the Social Care Centre, is actually the happiest or perhaps would be happier with some cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. If you haven't talked or maybe you're talking to see if they have better mechanisms, actually simply implement this payment and later return via FINA. I think they do. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79774	Thank you too, dear colleague. It is next to the HNS club in the Croatian Assembly and the esteemed representative Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79775	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. If I were to write a book about you or us, I'd call it "Trouble by last name," but you're all, you're getting better. Thank you very much. Very [[I'm sorry if I'm making any progress.]] Thank you, well-respected President of our Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. [[And that's what's important to note. Thank you very much. It is important to record.]] Why is it that someone who may not want to participate in supporting their child or children to whom few seem to me can be clear and understandable, but such cases as we have heard have and are not rare. There are also, of course, those who are unable to pay child support, but to ask one lawyer how much in the practice of parents who really don't have money to pay for alimony, and how much of those who don't want to pay for child support so they cover up income and property based on their long-term lawyer's experience, she replied there are both, but there are more of them who don't want to pay for their child's support. The idea and aim of the proposed Act on Temporary Restraint is to reduce this problem and to make it more successful and more flexible to pay for the alimony. The problem has been fought by many institutions and parents for many years, but unfortunately for now, it has not been so successful, and it was rightly and well spoken of in a previous debate by counterpart Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. And there were various ideas and attempts to solve this problem better. The establishment of a state-run fund for temporary child restraint was proposed, it was also discussed in this place, petitions were written, strategies were drawn up, and during that time there were still cases for the collection of alimony for years. In fact, we can say that because of the long-term length of litigation procedures in which judges do not even express temporary measures and courts contribute to the violation of the rights of the child in time to receive restraint from the parents with whom he does not live. When the mother of a student in my neighborhood filed a complaint with her daughter at the beginning of high school, she studied at the Zagreb Law School today and previously passed family law before she received alimony. The truth should also be said that the dispute lasted so long because the verdict was twofold abolished due to the complaints of both parents, and the case was returned twice to retrial. It was often and this was also the warning by the Ombudsman for children that due to insufficiently clearly defined assumptions for the acquisition of the right to temporary maintenance of a social care centre, for example in Ličko-Senj County for an identical case, there is a completely different practice in interpreting and applying the provisions of the city of Zagreb for example. This law will also allow for the uniform treatment of social care centres and competent state attorneys as the assumptions for the exercise of the right to temporary restraint are more clearly defined. The procedure is also prescribed, the duration of the right is determined and details of the payment of the amount of temporary abstention are arranged. If, therefore, a parent does not pay alimony by the proposed law of the Social Care Centre for three months, he assumes payment on himself. The time at which the child does not receive alimony or receive it only in part in this proposal will be halved. So, instead of six or seven months after the new one, after three months of non-payment or partial alimony payment, the child will be able to activate mechanisms to get temporary support from the state. It's also good that the state is going to look more for money back. Each year, the centre will send a mandatory solution to the amount paid by the State to support its or its child, and this will also be an executive document to enable the State's Attorney's Office to carry out the operation. So far, the state has reminded me of cases like this every three years. It may sound ironic, but the longevity of the procedure may also be an advantage in one case when giving a prison sentence to parents who do not comply with their maintenance obligation. Because while a convict is in prison, the chance to earn and pay temporary restraint is, of course, less. Such sanctions do not guarantee the simultaneous implementation of the child's right to abstention but indirectly and make it difficult to settle the demand. Namely, the perpetrator of a criminal offence is prevented from earning a profit that could settle the natural obligation of restraint. And then it's about a kind of vicious circle that seems to nobody in the end and it's obvious it's not good. And the problem is being plagued by countries that have much, much more experience than we have in designing and implementing legal solutions of this kind. Some have thought that parents who cannot support or who cannot comply with their obligations may or must do so through public works or something like that. Maybe we can think about it a little bit more. Because according to the M.O.P. data, the number of criminal offences in the maintenance duty is growing. In 2013, 934 violations of the maintenance duty were reported which was 31% higher compared to the previous year when 713 cases were reported. We hope that this law will contribute to these cases being less, and we believe, in any case, that the law will contribute to a more successful and spotty payment of alimony and therefore will be supported by the HNS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79776	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative, Djurdzica Sumrak, has one replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79777	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague König, you were talking about one case, and you said it wasn't unique, it would be a good thing if it were a unique case, so if there wasn't, but you can see about the state's promptity when we look back and through this law in one part of it, and then the man wonders if it was spotless now and earlier in reality to charge taxes? Because unpaid tax if someone didn't pay can't get some support. For example, if you haven't paid your car tickets, you can't register the car, if you haven't paid the electricity off, if you haven't paid the water off, etc., and then if you haven't paid child support in reality, you have a chance to judge and judge. Can the state be more prompt? So if it's registered, it means there's no tax paid, there's no punishment paid, so can't it be registered that someone so unconscious without a heart I don't want to waste any more time on such apostates I'd say in society so he can be punished in some way? That he can't exercise his rights. Here's what'd be spotty. Alimony of a child I think is just as important as a state tax, as a car registration. Alimony of a child and a child is more important than all that. Well, I think in the future, and it's possible that now it's a very easy state and it's spotless enough to solve it. The register of those non-payers, the alimony register, it's all run, you see, you're not even able to exercise your rights. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79778	Replica's reply, the esteemed representative of Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79779	... You are also right when you talk about more spotless resolution and the file, I believe that the adoption of a new Law on State Attorney's Offices, which we discussed here a few days ago, and which your club also announced that it would support a lot of cases of judicial, i.e. the slowness of court cases, because these laws of the court will be more evenly deployed and I believe they will be dealt with more quickly. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79780	Thank you, too. I don't have the right to participate in the debate, but I have the right to comment. A lot of fellow MPs are discussing this issue, at the same time the relationship between MPs and MPs is now 7-13 in favour of fellow MPs, which initiates that it is a problem which affects more mothers. It's not fair of fellow MPs not to take part in such a debate. Now we're moving on to an individual debate of ten-minute MPs. It's time for my dear colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic. He's not in the assembly, he's losing his right to discuss this matter. Dear colleague Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, right on her 10 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79781	Thank you very much, Mr. President. No wonder there are as many women as you have noticed and noticed in the Croatian Parliament now on this subject because, unfortunately, even 84% of women are actually affected by the non-payment of child support. The problem that follows every divorce is actually child support. One question is, when parents get divorced, who will pay child support, or who will have a child? When you look at divorces, it is always said that you should tell children that parents love them both, that they will take care of them, that there is no divorce between the child and the parent of the one with whom the child is not. These are all the words that they need to take off the hat of someone who can say it, or who can hold on to it. However, reality is quite different. However, the arrangement of such temporary child restraint in the existing law since 2003 is not satisfactory precisely because it has been seen in practice that there are various problems, that these have been difficult processes, that this has all been to the harm of children, and that is why I welcome this proposed law, and I think that this proposed law will certainly take significant steps towards a stronger and more effective protection of the child, i.e. the right to their abstention. The inertness of the system certainly must not be because the interior of the system can only please those who avoid paying for the alimony. Especially those who knowingly avoid payment. And being a single parent is surely a great responsibility, a great obligation, and a very heavy ballast of responsibility everywhere. In addition, single parents must face various forms of discrimination, as well as financial problems. Another fact that almost every third marriage is falling apart today. Such marriages suggest there are as few as thousands of children, tens of thousands of divorced parents in Croatia at the moment. A divorce makes sure that both parents remain bound no matter what the child is, stays with one parent while the other leaves. The problem is thousands of children divorced parents who do not receive alimony, and we always ask ourselves, and we certainly have examples from maybe family, friends, and the environment of how it actually ends. You know the cases that so far the defaults have been in prison, but there's no benefit from it, there's no state, there's no child, there's no parent, there's no one. Therefore, the parent still does not receive that child support. The main problem is actually parents who, some don't have but some don't want to pay child support. Here I mentioned that 84% is essentially women affected by this non-payment of alimony. So these women certainly have one stressful situation because of this whole story and financial problems, etc., it also naturally has a harmful effect on the child because it must be a very unhealthy situation and that mother has less maybe and time to devote herself to that child. Therefore, the state must not tolerate this fact that a large number of parents refuse to pay child support and therefore I say, I imitate this law that will improve this condition because it does not have to hurt the state, it hurts the state but it certainly hurts that child, or the parent who stays with that child. So I repeat the inertness of the system must not be allowed. Therefore, the proposal for a law that is before us is certain to prevent a number of abuses by abstention officers that have been observed in the application of the Institute of Temporary Restraint. It took a more systematic, clearer, more complete fixation of this particular system. When we talk about uncertainty and that I have to mention what these are, it was a problem of vague provisions and of height, of the duration of that first, insufficient, of course defined procedure of repaying the funds paid by the abstention debtors. And of course it was necessary, and this is the bill that solves it. There was a speech today that actually singled out this area of Family Law, and I would welcome that, too, why, because in this way apostrophe of the importance of this problem because I think the total number of users of this right is actually 3698, and the total amount of temporary abstention for minors is about 30, almost 38 million kuna. Therefore, it is an amount that is very important and which is, so I say it is a good thing that this area was actually removed from the Family Law, i.e. highlighted as important. Finally, colleagues and colleagues in strengthening legal protection must not only be manifested in the recognition of certain rights, but, of course, by achieving them through procedural mechanisms, and these very procedural mechanisms are listed in this bill. And what is encouraging to me is that there are also very good laws, but if there is no supervision, or if there is no possibility of seeing whether they are being implemented properly, they are sometimes very often not implemented. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79782	Thank you, too, dear colleague. We have a replica of the respected representative Dubravka Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79783	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues, Šimac-Bonačić, in fact, I'd like to start with this last part of you where you emphasized that it's a good thing that this is a special law, not part of the Family Law, because in this way it's actually being singled out, apostrophe of the importance of this problem. This isn't really, you might say, here's the thing we've heard, scary numbers, actually how many kids they don't get, they don't exercise their right to support. Here's a colleague of the twilight actually said she didn't want to talk about these people because she can't actually put herself in a category because they don't support their own children. But it's actually a civilization issue. And what has to torture us all is actually where we are as a civilization, as a society, that we don't care about our own children. Is it deliberate, if it's intentional only then it's terrifying, if it's for some economic reasons that are justified then maybe we can see a little through the fingers, so the state can jump in and the state has to jump in and show why the state actually exists, to show that social component, and the social note. And I'm particularly pleased that this is the kind of proposal coming from our ministry that just emphasizes that the point of the state is not to stand by and watch it be surprised, but to act and to help in this very social part where it can and must help. And when here's the president's note actually that most of it affects women, and you yourself said that 84% of women are actually burdened with these problems. I would actually say that it affects children the most, and that's why we need to support this law, and in any case, we need to enable children to exercise their rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79784	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79785	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Bilic, I agree with you that this is how the state shows this one social component, but also by this law, the bill also shows responsibility to the state budget because only now do we have a way to get those funds back. And if we were to talk about coming back, actually getting alimony, I'm sure every case has its own very sad and difficult story. And when you ask social workers, do you know what their reaction to this law is? He says, thank God we finally have a way to help our fellow citizens because so far they just couldn't, it's long gone, and in this way we've taken a step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79786	Thank you, too, dear colleague. Dear representative Romana Jerkovic. She's not in the assembly, she's losing her right to debate on this subject. It is up to the respected Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth Maja Sporish, the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79787	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, I'd just look back at the closing words of a few of the findings that have been made here, and it seems to me that some of the things may have been slightly missed in reading and may not have been well interpreted. In fact, someone here said that they would support this law if they knew that it would ensure a faster exercise of the right to temporary restraint and would ensure the return of funds. In this respect, I would draw attention to Article 7, paragraph 4, which states and there is a significant difference compared to before, that a child referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, means a child who, who receives this right, means a child referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall be entitled to temporary restraint if the abstention obligation does not fully or partially fulfil its obligation to abstain for more than 3 months uninterrupted from the date of the initiation of the enforcement procedure for the purpose of keeping it, it was sometimes in the current family law for 7 months. As regards return, I would draw attention to Article 27, paragraph 1 and paragraph 5, the Centre will, under its official duty, make a decision which will require the abstention officer to pay within 8 days of the date of delivery of the solution, the amount of temporary maintenance paid and paragraph 5, the appeal against the solution referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article does not delay the execution, and that execution is exactly the one that was actually spoken of here, that the execution as such is not mentioned, and that is the execution of that exercise. The funds are secured, the esteemed representative of Pleshe said that on items, on behalf of temporary maintenance there are 31 million, in the last year it was spent on the name of temporary abstention of 29 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79788	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Nada Murganic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79789	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Deputy, in some ways, I think that perhaps in this part of it you have now spoken of the part of the debate that I held on behalf of the club. In fact, I did mention Article 7 where I was actually pointing out this attitude 1 where it is said, I will only speak part of it, on the basis of an executive document, and if it seems... that grandfather and grandmother are not able to meet its minimum needs and Article 25 in which it is clearly said that they should return funds to the state budget, it is not clear enough for me. So, in that part, we doubted that because of the vague definition of certain legal provisions, there would be any possibility of avoiding obligations. And the debate went in that direction to make the articles clear, decisive, determined that there could be no different interpretations and that was, was mainly about this generational solidarity that was not clear enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79790	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79791	Thank you very much. So, Madam Deputy, Article 27(5) is something you can see in a series of laws where it is said that the appeal of a solution does not delay the execution of the bill, it is far from the execution and enforcement procedure. I'm just, when I'm talking about the OIB as an instrument to get very quickly to the property of the one who's obliged to abstain, and also the executive law, it's not good if we have laws that are relatively well placed that in the laws in which they need to be applied to make it clearer. Because I'm saying, this, Article 5, paragraph 27, is far from implementing and implementing the law, he's just defining something if you're complaining you have to pay whether or not, if you don't pay it, what's going to happen, that's the second part of the story. But the key story is to establish the property situation and therefore this OIB is also important in social status, social benefits, and you also have a lot of cases at this time in Croatia where a child supporter works outside and then pays alimony 1000 kuna. His alimony of 1000 kuna is certainly not a percentage of what he earns out there because he pays out with regard to professional equipment, etc. I'm sure over 2,000 euros. Therefore, you have a number of things that simply have to be applied if we want this law to be applicable and effective and unfortunately too many laws have been passed in this country which are dead letters on paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-28-0.u79792	Thank you very much. We've exhausted a list of registered representatives for discussion and replication and responses to the replica. We will now conclude a debate on the proposal for a law on temporary abstention. We'll vote when the voting conditions are met. We'll stop the debate and work at the plenary session. We'll continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. on the 3rd item of the agenda. - Proposal for a law on support for job conservation, first reading, P.Z.E., No. 666 Thank you very much. I'll see you tomorrow morning. Proposal for a Law on Temporary Maintenance, First Reading, P.Z. No. 656. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the next conclusion. Proposal for a Provisional Restraint Act is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. I'd like to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 77 votes in favour and 29 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion.
