ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u89325	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I request a 10-minute break after which we would like to meet the Croatian public and ask the President of the Government and President of the Republic of Croatia to engage in the suspension of the work on the realisation of the project Upper Horizons, which Republika Srpska started by building HE Dabar despite remarks from the Croatian side that the construction of these hydropower plants will lead to incomprehensible environmental consequences on the Neretva Valley and Maloston Bay.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u89326	I'm setting a break to 9.41. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:40 A.M.]] Comrade Branko Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u89328	... Thank you, Madam Vice President. [[Specially enabled.]] Dear colleagues and colleagues of the Croatian Democratic Community asked for a break in order to firstly warn the Croatian public and the public of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County, especially residents and citizens of Donja Neretva, and to ask the president of the Republic of Croatia in particular the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the competent ministry to engage and suspend, and for this they have enough legal instruments, the project of the Upper Horizon, carried out by Republika Srpska in the Nevesinj, Gacka and Bileca. And this is specifically by building the most important building in the system, the Dabar hydropower plant and the Dabar tunnel, which will use the project to reroute huge quantities of water from the upper river Neretva to the Trebišnica River and thus reduce the water supply to the lower river Neretva, which can certainly cause the water supply of the entire valley on the one hand and, on the other hand, disrupt the balance of fresh and saltwater in the Maloston Bay. Where a large part of these waters from the lower Neretva River and ends. The project that Republika Srpska started these days, the Republic of Croatia may, in accordance with two legal instruments, be suspended until all those remarks made by experts from the Republic of Croatia have been established and answered. Namely, the first legal instrument with which the Government of the Republic of Croatia can be used and, according to our knowledge so far, has not launched anything is the implementation of an international, bilateral water management contract between the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the basis of which the joint commission is also established. The conclusion of this commission is that no activities on the project of the Upper Horizons are carried out until one side of the monetoring is established, and on the other hand it does not bring an environmental impact study which will answer all these questions and concerns that arise about the launch of the Neretva Valley. According to our knowledge, part of the monitoring was established, it is very important to monitor developments in the lower river Neretva, and on the other hand, environmental impact studies in which they participated, in which the works took part and representatives of the Republic of Croatia were adopted by the Republic of Serbia, and the remarks made by representatives of the Republic of Croatia were not even responsible. According to this bilateral contract, the Republic of Croatia has the right to hitchhike and suspend activities on the implementation of the project. On the other hand, both Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia are signatories of the Espoo Convention on Environmental Impact across state borders and according to this Convention, as I have said by the signatories of both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, Croatia has the right and to participate in the development of all documents relating to environmental protection and the Republic of Croatia, but the Ministry of Civil Engineering of Republika Srpska, as far as we have information, and the Government has not done anything so far, has not responded to legitimate remarks and fears if they can say Croatian experts there to the realization of the project. At the same time, the government of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so another entity in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is also interested in the project because the lower part of the Neretva River basin is in part in the Federation area. She also reacted to such a study and made objections to Republika Srpska, which was rejected by the Banja Luka court, and this refusal by the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's objections was the trigger on which later the resolution ministry in Republika Srpska granted a building permit for these facilities. Therefore, Madam Vice-Presidents, we ask that the Parliament ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to report on what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done, which the Ministry of Environment has done to protect the national interests of the Republic of Croatia, to suspend this project until all objections, justified fears about the situation in the Neretva Valley and the Gulf of Maloston are resolved. I think that Croatia, I said, the Republic of Croatia has quite enough legal instruments to stop this project so that there will be no apparent consequences for life in the Neretva valley in such a way that the Neretva valley will practically become a wasteland, and that the balance between sweet and salty waters in the Maloston Bay will be disrupted, in practice, by this most quality part of the Adriatic Sea, where mariculture, pebbles and mussels are grown practically without any possibility of further cultivation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u89329	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues continue to discuss 14. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 734; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received the report at the session. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91510	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs mean one thing first is why it is an emergency procedure, simply because we have passed the Law on Areas and Court Headquarterss under the existing CAP. During December, the provisions on the High Criminal Court were to enter into force. Since we think there's no need for him right now, we're going to go into this procedure to make it go away. So, what are the amendments ahead of you: the first provision to postpone the application of the provisions on the High Criminal Court. The first reason for this provision in itself, if we look at it, Croatia will need to go to the appeals courts, this is intended to be one of the appeals courts, however, and the number of cases if you want the non-compliance of the case, even more demands that it be in the civil court than in the criminal court. That's one. Two, this provision has been introduced, but it has never been worked out and there are a whole series of circumstances, and it's also connected to our reorganisation, why at this point we're not going in that direction. First, a very large drop in appeal cases. So, appeal cases in criminal proceedings, they're all down. I've got the exact crash data in every court, so I can tell you, but here, I'll tell you that in four of the largest courts, it's 27%. That's it, so 27% less appeal cases at this point and the trend is going towards it. So until we look at the trend to go into establishing a new institution that requires both new rankings and new wages if you want because someone has to work there, we don't think it makes sense at this point. So these are the basic reasons. Let's do this reorganisation that was voted in the House, let's step by step because the establishment of a high criminal court will also require redefining the role of the Supreme Court because if he takes all the appeal procedures then they leave the Supreme Court, then the question is how many judges in the Supreme Court, how much they don't need, what they will do, which they won't. So that's whole, that's a lot more complex matter than this as it's been marked in the CAP so far, we're going to start it. So, prolongation and that's why we're going in this phase with it. The next thing, one, so seemingly maybe banality, but a terrible lot of money is spent on bringing the defendants to public debates where the defendants don't actually have what to say. There's only the possibility that he'll be there if he wants to. What we are introducing here is a possibility and this is in line with the European, not only EU, but also with the European Court of Human Rights' views, it is an opportunity to do so with telecommunications devices, so to hear it through a video connection, that is to say, to achieve this principle that it can attend this video connection. Because imagine just someone being driven from a prison hospital in Zagreb to Dubrovnik, I'm not just talking about the cost, I'm talking about a general machinery that we have to hire to come down, attend something and return to Zagreb. Or at the Supreme Court when a session is held, too, where he doesn't speak at all, but we need to bring him in, we need to give insurance for it, we need to give security there, put back. No need. So that's one reason directly. The indirect reason is that we want to go to the judiciary wherever we can introduce technologies that make it easier to work and that are costing the process. This is what we're introducing here, we're introducing the possibility that the... perspectives of the shop and the wider performance through audio connection, you'll see and in other laws we'll go, not audio, but video connections, audio-video connections, you'll see and in other laws we'll spread it. I'm also going to give you an example, not directly... a relationship. Request hearing, how's it going? The judge writes questions and sends his fellow judge to another city who calls the person, reads it, writes what she answered and returns it to the judge. We're losing months. Is it not simpler for this person to be held in court, to have a direct relationship with the council he decides, to ask her all the questions he needs and to draw a certain conclusion on that basis? So, a little example, but where can we do these shifts? This is the technology that costs, during this year we plan to make 5 devices, so connect the Supreme Court with certain prisons, county courts have a good part, we have to unify the technology, next year we go hard at it. I say, savings will be, but not just for saving, but new principles, let's go introduce new technology wherever we can. Here we're setting up an exemption, the institute of a senior court's exemption for this principle of our appeal between all the county courts, so it has to be arranged. We have some technical changes caused by the needs of practice, we specify the provisions of mandatory defence, we have one thing that we introduce... again from practice, it is the obligation to deliver copies of a powerful verdict to competent authorities is extended to officials appointed by the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic and the President of the Republic of Croatia, as well as to officials in local and regional self-government, public notaries, etc. In fact, the situation now is that we get it for the officers, but we think that the body that appoints someone has to get that information in accordance with the regulations or they will or won't, but in some cases, it just happened to us that a conviction was made, and that no one actually knew because it stayed down. If this is an obligation for example. Officer, I don't see why it wouldn't be an obligation for this category. Next, we're slightly limiting the possibility of carrying out the evidence action to verify the establishment of telecommunications contact. Namely what? We narrow down a catalogue that can be used for, they print, you know, in criminal proceedings. Here we go to the catalog for the most serious crimes, it is also in line with the decisions of the European Court of Justice, under one. Two, with what it actually imposes on us in our lives, we also stress the role of OTC, so everything has to go through it. It's been going on so far, but now it's just written in the law. I'm making sure of the so-called decree. ...renovate the criminal proceedings and that's more or less it. What I want to tell you right now, given that it was already in the government yesterday, it's an amendment concerning the absentee's trial, so it's going to be, like, an amendment to the government there, so in a conversation with the practitioners, we've come to the point that in some cases a question of delivery of a request to investigate the defendant who's on the run, means whether he can even begin the procedure if he's on the run, and there's no other lawyer on official duty. We are now saying that he is being set up from making a solution, so then he gets an attorney under official duty, he will be delivered, and we can also go to trial in absentia. The absentee trial is not something we should use too often, but I think it is right and that we should go according to that when an investigation is conducted, when the indictment is carried out, the worst situation is that nothing happens after that. Our best example is war crimes where the charges were filed, and here I am taking an example of Veljko Kaidevic, I think the indictment was filed in 2002 and then nothing happened. If it were meant in absentia then we would have had or would not have a verdict, I will not enter into anyone's guilt, but the victims could come to trial, they could state what really happened to them, they would fix their statements, and that's something that would prevent such persons from committing crimes from dying, in fact, uncondemned, and I think it's bad. And I think anyone who's done anything that needs to be tried if he's not available in absentia, that's one. Two, the European integration of each country will lead to everyone being available sooner or later, and no one should have illusions and should hope that if we cannot judge him now in Croatia that we will not be able to do so in a few years, so we will be able to. And that's why more is that when there's evidence, when there's an indictment and there's legal conditions to go through with it. That's good I'll say for those people at least they know where they're at, but it's good primarily for victims who we have an obligation to give the opportunity to say what happened and to get their statements fixed. So it's an amendment, he's not here in the text but he'll be during the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91511	Only for your information has the amendment arrived. Vesna Scare Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91512	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, in principle, all of this you have said is fine, but what is the question that these financial calculations are for quitting from the high court, or how much can you say how much it costs to introduce a high criminal court and how much does this whole rotation cost this all that has been proposed for second-degree appeals in criminal cases financially, since we don't have any financial indicators here? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91513	The reply to the replica of Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91514	So since it wasn't even defined in the law that the judges would have had, I can't tell you how much their wages would cost depending on who they would have but would certainly cost. So we don't have exactly what it would cost to run a high criminal court and I wasn't talking about financial effects. In the judiciary, financial effects are sometimes not the most important because justice costs itself. Everything we do in the judiciary that costs money and we can't bring it down to zero, it can't be zero. So the cost is not primary. As for this other question you asked how much it costs, it'll cost. However, it will be cheaper than the current delivery system and we will spend less on postage than we are now spending. So total watching will be cheaper than right now, but I'm saying it's not the most important thing either. The most important thing is for a citizen to get better service, to get better service for what they pay for, and that's where the story starts and stops. I think it's much better for citizens that their case goes to a court that's less burdened than the one that's more burdened, and of course they won't travel, that the object is sometimes removed from the local environment, and I also think it's very important because it's not that someone influences someone, but the illusions are bad. You don't get a good picture when in the same building you decide in the first and second degree we all know it, not us like us professionals don't bother us, we know there's no influence here, I'm talking about citizens. So that's a whole series of reasons why we're going into this. As you've seen, we're not giving up on this, but I think the Court of Appeals should be arranged as a whole, both civil and criminal, that they should then be placed against the county, but also against the Supreme Court, and not now as it was intended just to put a high sentence without all of this being arranged. So let's say the question of the role of supreme, what he'll do if he stays down and evens court practice. So here's the reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91515	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of Independent Representatives Linić, Vuksic and Hodzic, colleagues Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91516	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Ministers, Honored Deputy Minister. At the very beginning, it is also related to the ministry and the law, so that our language will go into step with time in agreement with the Ministry of Justice and the Institute of Language and it is agreed to introduce the 8th fall in Croatian, and given the events in Zagreb, it would be called corruption and would answer the question of who and how much, here is one novelty probably in both the judiciary and the language. And now for the more serious part of the job, which is a few words, but really just a few words about the new Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure. I think it was either last night or before last night because time flies fast when Mr. Turudić, who spoke first hand about unequal court practice, was actually one of the big problems with those that we are talking about in the Croatian judiciary, and that is the slowness that is precisely this unequal case-law. The draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act is what the Honorable Minister was saying, precisely these provisions of this law allow me to hope for a more uniform case law. Everything that envisions these changes in my humble opinion falls into the order of those changes that took place in the legislation all along this government and, as I have already repeated many times, that it is one of the best segments, if not the best segment along with the Ministry of Defence of this government. So it's not hard to support the Amendment Bill's proposal for amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act. Bringing the defendants into some of the processes as the minister spoke cost and there was no big need for it. The establishment of an audiovisual connection, audio-video connections is certainly a great help in processes, huge savings but not only money but a great savings of time and great savings in the engagement of all those people who need to be hired as said by the minister to bring the defendant, for example, from Zagreb to Dubrovnik. This may be a clue, this may be an example to another ministry that I don't know if he's thinking about, I don't know if he's taken any strings and it's the Ministry of Education. We know well that in large countries where distances are large there are schools where students follow classes, so in lonely places they follow classes through audiovisual relationships. So I know that on Cres Island and many other islands in some places there are two students, one student is supposed to pick him up a bus, drive, kids get up at 5 o'clock, at 6 o'clock to get to class, this is a far cheaper, more practical solution. So it is this example, which is cited by Minister Milenic and mentioned in this bill to greet and I think we should move forward with time. It is also narrowed down to a catalogue that determines whose phone records can be obtained. I talked to a friend of mine the other day, and he tells me you were on that street and that street today. I say how you know, says so because I can track you on your cell phone. Today we're talking here, and when I hear some MPs on those more serious security committees, so when they do, technology's so advanced today that the hacker kids can break in wherever they want, follow whoever they want, etc. Even when someone says someone was looking for phone records, it seems a little naive. So all this other stuff that contains the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act is acceptable and we will support it as a club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91517	Željko Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91518	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I would just like to reply to my colleague that this project has already been launched in Croatia when it comes to remote school. Dapace CARNet received the award for the best project in the public administration for remote school held on both islands and parts of Slavonia, therefore in less accessible areas where there are fewer students.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91519	Branko Vuksic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91520	An equally short answer to an esteemed colleague. You said the project was launched, I'd like it to be implemented as soon as possible, I think it's good for both children and it's good for the whole system. And I think it's a lot in the end, first of all, when we invest, it's going to be a lot cheaper.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91521	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of DC, New Wave, National Party Reformist colleague Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91522	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, with an associate, respected colleague and colleague. Our club will in principle support this draft law by emergency procedure for the reason that there are good, concrete provisions already spoken of by the minister and by the only part and by colleague Vuksic. However, what remains a fundamental issue, which is also a good part of the judicial public, which is why they give up the High Criminal Court. Namely, the High Criminal Court has been mutilated for a long time, involved as a court that will resolve and even criminal legal practice. And now that it's over, I've now asked the question, which is why I haven't gotten the answer at all, unfortunately, clearly. The establishment of the High Criminal Court would not mean an increase in the judicial apparatus because such a solution as I recall it was proposed meant the abolition of part of the county courts. At first, this would refer to those courts that, the county who have less to do in criminal cases and simply those judges would remain for work on other cases, civil cases which are far more and which, I think, would sink this judicial system. In the perspective of the establishment of the High Criminal Court, assumptions would be opened that case-law really is uniform. I don't think it's going to end well. So, as I recall, the proposal was that the High Criminal Court had its departments in four cities: Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek and that practical cases from municipal courts were assigned to this very system of rotation to these 4 departments. What is the benefits of the High Criminal Court compared to all that is now being offered we don't know again, and I think it's high time that parliamentary deputies start getting some bills, calculations, especially financial ones, because as far as I see justice money doesn't really have much, and the judiciary is looking for money. Therefore, you really need to see what is the most rewarding financial at this point, and all in order to truly be quick and quality justice that will create a sense of justice, not only will there be justice on paper. For these reasons, we really think that the ministers should come here in the future with financial calculations. These are all the reform measures that require and financial information, especially when you write in the bill that there are no financial costs, and there are, and you said there are. You wrote that it does not require additional funds, financial resources, and requires, because you will also have to invest in these video surveillances, you will have to invest in equipment. I'm assuming now that it will look at the beginning, that it will still go to prisoners if they want to address the higher court, that they will also go to lawyers, that the parties will therefore travel because there will be no video link, because there will be no authorised person, professional person who needs to train a videolink, etc. It is therefore necessary to calculate how much these funds are. Otherwise, all these other changes you've suggested absolutely support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91523	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91524	Dear colleagues of Skare-Ozbolt, it's not really a controversy with you, but an exchange of views, I forgot to say something about a delay in the introduction of the High Criminal Court. Last time the subject of the judiciary was on the agenda we discussed, you took part in it, how many courts we have, how many judges we have with regard to the number of citizens in the Republic of Croatia. It is absolutely certain that we are in the upper home among the countries that have the most courts, the most judges and at the moment when the judiciary is functioning, and we often say here that it is not working and we are aware of it and we feel that every day we introduce it, I think that this is the reason why we delay that the High Criminal Court, the new institution, the new institute, I think it would bring additional confusion and that what the High Criminal Court is doing can be done by county courts, and part of course can do as the Supreme Court is doing so far. As an expert in this area, you will certainly know how to answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91525	Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91526	You're actually kind of replicating with the minister, not me. But I will also answer you because things always end up on money, but also on the efficiency that you need to see in what you invest in some time. So obviously there's money, it's just a question of what you're investing in. Two years has already been spoken and calculated with the High Criminal Court. In two years, we don't have a single calculation of what the cost would be, how many people would have to withdraw from the county courts, how many people would withdraw from some other institutions. So in two years we haven't done anything at all, and that's why my question wasn't an accident. You're speaking in your mind, too. Yeah, an introduction would be expensive, and how do you know? You don't know because you don't have any indicators. That's the whole problem. It's just that the problem is, we never have any financial indicators of how much anything costs. I personally think, I support reforms, but personally I think that the whole situation with this... subject will absolutely cause chaos and this reorganization of the network of courts, I will remind you of these words, the next year when the chaos comes that I am warning about and the question is how much money it will cost. And that's why it just bothers me when you say it's gonna cost. And how much? You don't know, and neither do I, but at least I'm asking that as a question, I'm having problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91527	Thank you very much. Minister Orsat Milenić. Here's to the pay phone and five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91528	Thank you very much for your support first. As far as the questions are concerned, first question of cost, we honestly didn't count it. And you know why? Because when a provision is put in the CAP, I mean in 2009 or 2010, there is absolutely no calculation of what it would cost the High Court. So, not a word about it. And there was no need for us to count it when we weren't going to bring it in, but to delay it. So I don't see why they would count on the cost of something that wouldn't even happen, so the cost is zero. As far as this dispensation is concerned, the cost is now, we've calculated it as far as it is now. He's now something underneath, very difficult to calculate, something under a million kuna a year, and we'll get a video link for a lot less than that. And that's it. So the law will absolutely have no financial effect. Why? Because one institution is not introduced, so it won't have any expense. How much was it supposed to cost? I don't know, because there's no law when there's no calculation of what it's supposed to cost or how it's worked out or how it's supposed to work. So we're talking about an institution we don't even know about to name, or what rank these people would be called. You're talking, you should have lifted the County Courts. It's also not in the law. That might have been someone talking about how we should have done it. Look at what the law says and what we're putting off right now. It says the High Court of Penalty, actually the same jurisdiction as the Supreme Court, as I read it, decides on complaints against the County Courts. Not a thing, not a thing. But isn't it logical that these judges would be ranked above the county because they decide on their complaints? So that pay would already be higher. Elimination of the County Courts. Well, we've been all over the country. At this point we must develop Croatia as it is. So what do you think in one of the areas where that County Court exists he has his own resonation. The number's down to 15. If we were going on further suspension now, you say we'd move on to civic. So where would we go if we abolished the court? So we should travel. Well, yeah, that's why we don't cancel it. And you just said that it was necessary to establish the High Penalty and abolish the County Courts to get the civil judges to work, to do something else. First, we believe that because of Croatia's development, what we have should remain that way. Well, we can't concentrate in four big cities at all. That's not good. Second, if the judges were to move me to work and they were to travel, it would certainly be a expense to you. So I'm going back to this basic. There's no cost calculation because it's gone, there's really no cost. And that's why, with these changes to the law, it's the cost of not producing. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91529	Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91530	Mr. Minister, first of all, I didn't mention the abolition of the County Courts in any way. No, you didn't listen to me very well. I'm the one who said that the department was abolished, the criminal departments at the County Courts, that's what I said. And as for the High Court of Penalty, so when you came as Minister, you had it laid out in law. You from the Supreme Court of County courts are required to introduce such a High Criminal Court. And now after three years, you say I have no idea, those weren't any calculations. So it is up to you as Minister of Justice and the Ministry to develop these possibilities, it was up to you to do so and to see whether the High Criminal Court is paid not only financially, but also professionally. Therefore, talk about paying, for example, the travel of judges. So now you're going to have criminal judges traveling from municipal courts to centres, from these courts where you've abolished the courts to the center and there's no problem, and the problem would be the journey of a judge who would work at the High Criminal Court. I don't understand. I don't understand that bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91531	Will you answer the Minister? Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91532	Honored Madam President, Mr. Minister. You were talking about money, about links. I'll raise my hands for both of those things. And last time we supported you on the rationalization of courts, because when MPs feel that there's something good going on, there's no reason why it shouldn't be. But I'm replicating you about this money and that kind of link. I do not believe that you will agree anything with this at the level of the Croatian judiciary. The Croatian judiciary is not good, because it is not good and you will not match it with links, nor with additional costs of a million or 100 million kuna because it is not good. Because one person in Zagreb was convicted because she told a lie, so the whole state rose from the president of the state to the Prime Minister. You said something, too. I was convicted because I told the truth. No one's even roaring. That's the first thing. It's another thing. In Zagreb, the arrested Zagreb. I don't know, probably what they did or didn't do. But no one can convince me that it wasn't done for political reasons now. That how you did it... to be a cop and to be a judge and nothing else in this country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not at all. And the third thing, when the masserium is involved, then everyone has to get out of jail and the judge twice condemns to stay. These above him say twice, three times he can't stay in jail. Well, you know you've been arresting people for two, a year in prison until you rot. When will you be convicted, when will the trial begin? Never. And now the masserium is taking people out of prison, they have to, they can't be out there. So I have to get into the Masons to be safe in this country. No, you don't just do it to me like this or smile or this or that. When are you going to align this practice with how people in Zagreb can now be trained from prison. I can defend myself from freedom, and these other three years in prison.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91533	Thank you very much. Thank you. Time's up. The reply to the replica of Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91534	Thank you very much. So, where anyone needs to sign up, the masseary, etc. I really didn't, so then I don't know. But there's one thing. You made a claim that the Croatian judiciary is bad. So I am in many ways a critic of many things that are there. You can see that by returning to my criticisms that are coming. But it is certain that the Croatian judiciary is much better than it has been and that it becomes better every day. That it's thanks to the people who work there primarily, who put a lot of effort into it. We must enable them, here the Croatian Parliament, to make certain things work better and then we can ask more of them. It is true that we need to raise the level of responsibility but also, it is my deep belief, that when we look at the segment of society that the judiciary in Croatia is certainly not worse than other segments, it can only be better than others. So I'm saying, as Minister, I've often criticized, I'm going to criticise it further, it's my job because I'm a citizen minister and not a justice minister in the sense that I should protect him, but if we look at other segments, if we look at what we are in other things, it's certainly better and more well done than a lot of things in the country. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91535	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91536	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'd like to get involved in this debate, Mr. Minister, about the financial resources. I'm not talking about the High Court of Penalty right now. I'm going to talk about this news that you've predicted. The bill, which is before us, clearly states that no means will be needed to implement the law. You just said it would take funding, but you still don't know how much. Of course, that's exactly what you said about implementing this law. And video connection and demeanor and all that other stuff will surely be looking for some means. No law can be implemented in a procedure without the clearly stated means necessary for its implementation. So I think that by the end of the debate you would have to supplement this bill, otherwise under the legal framework that provides for the release of the law in the procedure, that law would unfortunately have to stop. Because, I repeat, I'll quote you what you just said, "It'll cost but it'll be cheaper than it is now." A little Alan Fordowski sounds good. So, if it's going to be cheaper, then it should be shown in the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91537	Replication response, Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91538	We, when I say it will cost it will be within the means that exist now. So, you take a ride now, we're not going to take a ride now, the defendants are going for a ride now. How much we make savings we'll go to the video link. They will be introduced gradually as much money as there is money for it. So there won't be direct effects. We this year regardless of the entry into force of this law we are already in the acquisition of a certain part of the video device. Most of the county courts have them, so they won't get them as such. Whether or not some of them will go out of date and they'll need to replace it over time is what I can't tell you right now but the five of these I said they're getting already independent of this. So in the law itself, what we introduce will not cause it to be such a cost because these video links exist, each county court now has them and exists in part of the municipal ones. He'll be in jail who won't be just because of this law. But it won't cause the law to break up he'll cut it down. So I'm the law as such because it gets parallel, it's the means that exist. We got some, so here we have now through UNICEF some of the funds we're going to use here. We'll leave some of the existing in office. If we're going to need to replace the equipment in two years, I can't tell you at this point, but the law itself, because of the provisions that are being put in place, will not cause financial cost.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91539	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91540	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, it is necessary to distinguish the financial impact from the cost. And maybe you're right when you say this law won't cause a new cost but there's no law that doesn't lead to financial effects. And you lack an analysis of the effect of the financial application of this law. And that's what you owe under the Fiscal Responsibility Act. Whether it is positive or negative and how much it will have to be shown. You have to plan the costs, you don't plan them at all. How is the judiciary budget going to be done, if you don't know the exact cost? Therefore, because of such misjudgements and we are in a situation of ineffectiveness of the judiciary, only 8 million kuna for the operation of the DORH is missing today. Because someone didn't plan DORH's expenses well. We can't go into that situation. And when you say you're against the High Court and you don't know why you're against it, it's a little unacceptable. You're literally saying you don't know why because you didn't do the analysis. You're without any analysis against it. There is no economic analysis of the effects of the possible establishment of such a court, no effect on the effectiveness of the trial in that case but you are against without analysis. That you have made an analysis and economical although the judiciary must not be brought down to the economic account but that economic analysis is followed by cost planning, and cost planning is followed by budgeting. So without an analysis, you can't decide anything against it because the decision can't be made at all if there's no analysis previously. And if you had made the analysis, if you had suggested this analysis here, you'd have put it in the bill and then you said we were against it because it shows then it would be acceptable, and this way and the priors without an analysis are not acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91541	Replication response, Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91542	So first of all, I'm staying with this law that he's not going to need financial resources. I said how the equipment is supplied, regardless of this law. Second, you're talking about analysis. So we did an analysis through the Law on Areas and Seats adopted by this House where a model of appeal was made which does not involve the High Criminal Court. So that's where we put it, that's what you voted for or didn't vote for, I don't know, but the MPs voted it a few weeks ago and there contained this appeal procedure in detention. And there's no High Court. And now I don't see why we should be here when we postpone one institute that's been resolved by another law here doing a special analysis for something that the Parliament has already voted on. That's why this law goes after that. If the parliament hadn't voted it then it might have been here to discuss a different arrangement, but the parliament voted in a different appeal procedure where there is no High Court of Penalty. And now after that, we, yes, are here and why would we now be doing an analysis of what's been solved there? But I agree with you that every law should be analysed by the end, so I say there is that analysis and the matter of appeal has been resolved, there is no High Court of Penalty. The parliament voted it out, it's practically, it's going to be in effect 1.4. But the other thing, what you said, I agree every law should have an analysis as much as possible, you have to give all the elements and all the facts, that's right. What you're saying about the debts that exist is true, but you know why? Because they're produced there, they're not related cost production to say so, so in the trial itself, and you can't predict whether 50 large cases will start tomorrow in which the court will determine not even I know how much art, so no one can do that to you. You can only reproduce. Sometimes when you're in short supply you have to add, we'll do it through rebalancing. But it can't be... And you don't know how it's gonna go in advance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91543	Thank you. And Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91544	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, in any case, it is to welcome the attempts to rationalise the network of courts. And the Parliament is in the past, in the last session, it seems to me, that on the last one, it adopted that network of courts. Uh, let me say one dispute about the High Criminal Court is actually, I'm so evaluating, and your delay in forming such a court of law for possibly or might be up to five years, and practice will show if it's even necessary for that court after five years. So it is good that we also have an alternative that you have offered in this material it is clear that the rationalisation which is not only indicated by the network of courts, but also by the travels not spent by large sums of money, also in the guidelines of rationalisation and the Ministry of Justice. So, one is commendable. But what's really a problem in the whole judiciary, and a little Duje Marasović did it, that's the quality of judges and trials that I might not be going into because I'm not competent, but according to the dissatisfaction that exists and to the whispers that exist in the public, there are a lot of objections, dissatisfaction, so I won't say protests about such things. Here I am, moving towards Zagreb, hearing that certain things, this is Bandic's arrest, and then Milanovic, the prime minister's defamation case, and then the appointment of Mr. Bajic, that is, an unofficial proposal for appointment in the Constitutional Court to have certain connections. That's what they say, whispering in Zagreb. I may be bringing it out here so unverified, but here are some things in court that citizens are dissatisfied with. So it's not about rationalization, it's about the quality of court and court.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91545	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Thank you. The reply to the replica of Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91546	On these arguments, I'd like to say thank you, actually, that's it, I agree. As for what you say to the unverified, what can I tell you, don't listen to them and tell them because they're not right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91547	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Davor Milicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91548	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Today's proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act proposes the sixth series of amendments and additions to the Law on Criminal Procedure, which was first adopted in 2008. I cannot, not to mention, that the adoption of the Code of Criminal Procedure at that time had positive views both professional and general public because it was essentially accepted as an important lever in the more effective work of the judiciary. According to the current state of affairs, the first amendments to the law took place in 2009, the second in 2011, the third in 2012. When the Code of Criminal Procedure was brought into line with the Penal Code. In 2013, the fourth and fifth amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act were also the biggest change in its scope. And it has been the result of the implementation of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia's decision since 19 July 2012. At the same time, the Croatian Democratic Community club proposed essentially the adoption of a brand-new law because it was already amending 552 articles. However, let me briefly return to this sixth amendment today and the addition of the Criminal Procedure Act. Of the 12 proposed articles, most refer to the harmonisation of the law on criminal proceedings with the net law on areas and courts' seats and compliance with EU legislation. By way of effect on 1 April 2015, each county court shall become competent to decide on appeals against judgments and all municipal courts in criminal cases. In fact, since 1 April 2015, the system of algorithmic award of objects has been introduced. That amendment will, in one hand, lead to a more rapid settlement of the case and an unification of the burden of courts and judges in criminal cases, while, on the other hand, due to different legal practices, we will be brought back to legal certainty and should be resolved by amending Article 11 of the proposal moving the year of the establishment of the High Criminal Court of Justice from 1 January 2020. The proposed legal solution, I fear, will again lead to legal certainty, which was to be avoided through the establishment of the High Criminal Court, leaving it with space to deal with judicial practices as much as possible. Furthermore, one of the important amendments to the law in this proposal is, in any event, Article 3 of the draft law amending Article 133 in a way that adds paragraph 2 which determines the length of the investigation into criminal offences cases referred to in Article 21. The Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime. According to this proposal, the total duration of the investigation prison referred to in Article 133(1) is now extended during which the investigation has been extended. I don't think this solution from the bill is good because every extension of detention is a restriction of freedom or incurring human rights, and by extending time for which one can be deprived of liberty does not contribute to legal certainty, but once again opens up the possibility of various manipulations and pressures on persons found in an investigative prison. Furthermore, as an important amendment to this proposal of law and Article 9, which concerns the presence of parties at a council meeting with the assistance of closed technical for long-distance connection, an audio-video device that has operational significance by its nature and, with more effective work, achieves a reduction of costs, I believe that the change in question should also apply to municipal courts, thus allowing citizens who are witnesses or damages in criminal proceedings not to travel to courts, that they may make statements in court with the assistance of a closed technical device for long-distance connection. The proposed amendments again only partially address the accumulated problems in the judiciary, constantly incomplete amendments to the law are further affected by the legal certainty of the citizens and further influences the harmonisation and... of the case-laws. Procedural laws are legally complex areas and every little intrusion in them increases the legal uncertainty of citizens and instead of bringing and guaranteeing greater legal certainty, products of opposite effects and... legal certainty. However, instead of seeking a more effective judiciary through a better organisation, this coalition government often changes the laws and reduces the funds for the judiciary and the judiciary budget is becoming smaller year after year, and that is not good. The HDZ Club will in principle support amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91549	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91550	You say to your colleague, that here is a delay in the application, i.e. the establishment and beginning of the work of the High Criminal Court, that it will lead to the prevention, unification of court practice. According to the Law on Courts, it is the Supreme Court that, who is engaged in equating judicial practice, and I find it difficult to imagine a court that would not judge, and is engaged in equating judicial practice. But let's put it aside. We must know and remember that under the grains unheard of in our legal history a high court was established that no one in the public knew and it was smuggled into the Law on Criminal Procedure, and the Law on Criminal Procedure, we all know, in its first provision, that no one innocent is convicted, that the perpetrator of a criminal offence be punished or another measure under the conditions laid down in the law. So, rules of conduct in criminal proceedings. And the Law on Courts determines the formation of courts, the kind of courts and the actual jurisdiction of courts. So when you read the Law of Courts in your provisions, then you will see which courts exist in the Republic of Croatia. In the Republic of Croatia, the judicial authority is performed by regular and specialized courts, so municipal, county courts, specialized courts such as commercial, administrative, criminal, you have the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and you have no high court anywhere, but you read the ZKP and suddenly see a high court. But not only that, to make trouble even worse, nor were the funds secured, nor did anyone then ask if the funds were secured and that reminds me of the 90s when almost every place, in Nin, in... founded the courts by a feather move, none of them began to work, but that's why you were appointed the presidents of the courts at that time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91551	Minister Orsat Milenić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91552	Thank you very much. First, thank you for your support, and secondly, what you said, of course, every change of law, and I keep saying it, and we can all agree on that, is a certain legal uncertainty. But I'm still doing what I'm doing, whenever I see something that might not be good or when I think it might be better I'm going to change the law. I think it's our duty, and besides the parliamentary deputies, it's in the end to decide whether it's the right way or not, but unfortunately, and now we're talking about the CAP, unfortunately if we open almost any provision of that law and many others, we'll see a lot of illogicalities and many discrepancies. And to us, not only in the judiciary, but in general, it will obviously take us a long time to build up, to develop a little better nomotechnical, legislative culture, I would say, which will... stable regulations. It's not now and I can't agree that this is happening in this government, it's not happening. We change laws and they change laws before, they change laws before that, they change laws after that. So that's not a characteristic, especially now, if it were happening now more than it had happened before, just to take the numbers, they'd see that it didn't, but I don't think it matters. The important thing is that I agree in principle that we need to seek the stability of the system, that we simply need to make it more clear for the citizens, any norm that a citizen cannot recognize and understand is not really a good norm. Now let's look at any law so we can see how far away we are from it and how much work we all have to do together. You, me, all of us together. Money for the judiciary, right. We're going through rebalancing now, hopefully, to cover our debts, and that's actually going to be in a situation where the judiciary hasn't been in the last 15 years, maybe even for years that there's no debt. But will they continue to form? Look, we all have to cover ourselves with what we have. I mean, we're talking about justice here right now, if there's a culture minister here, we could say the same thing about it, and you need more money, for health care, for this, for that. We can have all the functions that the state has to the extent that we earn, how much we earn as a society. And that's where we have to get naked. It's nice, I'd like to bring in a lot of big and different things first, but as much money as we have, we can go and every change that's here in front of you, it's just going to go as fast as we can to secure the funds, otherwise it can't. I mean, here we are, I mean the same. There is one specificity in the judiciary and why there are often debts, but I say since I've known about the judiciary there are debts. That's what you'll always say. Because the position where it costs, it's completely autonomous and that's how it's supposed to be. As a judge, you decide whether you need an expert, the law has prescribed whether the defense is official, you don't know how many criminal cases you're going to have, how big, how heavy it's going to be. So you can't predict there and then you're actually determining that cost which is your autonomous right and that's how it should be, but it's being paid from another position. And there comes often to... And that's so, but it's just different, very difficult because what would that mean? So now, as executive authority, we should determine whether the court is allowed or not to take an expert? Well, we can't do that because we're getting involved in a trial. So the court is normally autonomous. Whether three witches should be taken, and there is enough one, we must leave that to the conscience and decision of whoever decides. But the cost when it's made there is paid elsewhere. And that's one thing I'm not going to say is the problem, but it's one specificity in the judiciary, which is that the cost is autonomously determined in one place, paid in another, and that's why it comes to that. But I'm saying it's not specific right now, it was everyone here is here and the colleagues who were before the minister know that there was a cost that this debt was created he paid and it's just like that. Here we're going to bring it down almost to zero, next year we're going to be able to pay everything, but whether there are 10 large objects that will require I don't know what kind of art I don't know at this point and whether it's going to be a debt or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91553	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91554	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, it's nice to hear from Mr. Minister that you'll support any progress and promotion that will improve the situation in the judiciary, that's nice to hear. It's even more pleasant for me to hear you say a little while ago that I can't be in charge of four of the largest centers, but it's nice to hear that, too, but I just need to think locally and say some things that don't exactly convince me. Look at me in Koprivnica you took over the Palace of Justice on 1st April 2013, 33 million built super modern with all available qualities. First, you've confirmed that we have one of the fastest courts and look now at another center being profiled. I don't have anything against Varazdin, nothing, any honor, but let's just say honestly there's no such technical possibility, that's one problem that convinces me that it won't improve that if we get out of our midst there these things are being transferred. And this from the 1st time I've known 2015, things from the Cross are going to Bjelovar, I'm sorry if I'm unprofessionally expressing myself, and here is also the next point of the youth courts of Article 37. Varazdin, right? And now I'm looking at how it's going to improve that user on the ground, how it can improve, improve, improve, go under worse conditions, technically worse conditions, it has to travel. I think there's going to be a breach of availability and quality, here's what I'm thinking in my own way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91555	Minister Orsat Milenic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91556	Thank you very much. We run this dialogue at every point. First he was a Gjurjevac, now we're on Koprivnica, but here we are. Well, you know it was predicted that Koprivnica wouldn't have a court at all, so he stayed. So we're listening to you and what's in the field, etc. This is what I said we'll talk about, I'll always technically present to you what the numbers say, which is what the waist says. Of course, Croatia has its specificities and that we should always keep in mind that something is an island, that something is set up in a certain way, that there is a different approach, etc. And we'll take care of it, so that's the question. But let's not do this right now, let's not worry so much about whether the defendant will travel or not. The average citizen of Croatia is never in life the defendant, for starters, the average citizen, these cases are very few. Second, the defendant who has a choice may be in custody, so we'll drive him, so it's already his blessing to come out of freedom to defend himself and let's not worry so much he'll find it very difficult to come to court or not. And courts have to concentrate in some things. I don't know about the work dispute for you, so don't you want to come to a judge who's decided on a thousand such cases, which is totally in it or someone who decides maybe 10 or 20 of them are just gone, so we have to go. Specialization is something that is a trend in all professions, so how and at what rate, we agree to see what is on the ground, see, agree, etc. but therefore especially in these specificities of criminality. Let's get him out of the local environment, let's put him on one bigger one, he'll make better decisions, better quality. And let the defendant travel because I say we can always drive it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91557	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91558	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you said I mean literally that this money is done as much as it can be done and that there is no minister who wouldn't want any more money. I wouldn't agree with that claim. With as much money as you can afford, there's more to be done. And if there was more money, it would be even more. I don't agree to the thesis that can't be rationalized, there's no way we can rationalize 10% right now, but we're just gonna concentrate on the judiciary. Imagine when you have a judge who refuses 10 years ago demanding to open up the bankruptcy of a company that, by all legal criteria, had to be in bankruptcy, blocked three years earlier, for example, uninterruptedly refuses to apply for bankruptcy. After 10 years, it stems from this lawsuit of diverse, non-payments of so many unnecessary costs because no one has sanctioned something that has obviously been wrong and it is repeated so. We with 130 billion kuna expenditure of the state budget so we can make 50% more beautiful to this country, we don't need more money than we do on every segment, at least in the judiciary, at least. But there's rationalization, and there's space. There is no analysis of every corner of this country in which money is spent and for which it can be spent and for which it is not. Well, at prom, we spend 300 percent more than we'd like to spend, and that's what the director of the agency says, so I wouldn't count. There are no segments where we are not irrational but wasteful, boastful, rude to those who pay revenues to the state budget according to tax bonds and therefore do not agree that more can be done, can be done with existing money much more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91559	Minister Orsat Milenic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91560	Thank you very much. So I agree. We may even seem to have a smaller budget. See just how much investment will be made limited, it would be better if there were more, as much as we can and compare maybe with the period when the budget was larger. You're talking about rationalization, I agree. Here you can come, we'll give you information for every court, how much is spent, how many people are there, how much is extra. So we have them and we've made for every square meter of this country when we're talking about justice as well as how. You know when I explained the law, so yes, we have three times as many, no, the European average is 60, we've been thinking of 260 employees per 100,000 residents, 160, excuse me, almost three times as much. Yeah, of course people won't go, they won't get fired, but let's just say we put them on a court delivery that's better, more efficient, and we'll cut the cost of postage. So that's what we need to do within what we have, and that's where I agree to try to make the best of it. But there's a complete analysis here. That always, she's available to say with pleasure, if you come we'll give her to you, to any representative to see. You, if you have any ideas, come on. I mean, so this reorganisation here is... It'll serve that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It can't happen overnight because that's how it came about. You can't come in now and tell you 100 is extra, so then times x because then we have a really different problem. But we have to give these people more work. And what's essential is to be done when citizens pay us to get a better service. Now it's no problem how much, they pay us a lot, maybe too much, and maybe there's that difference. But what's a problem is they don't get a good enough favor for it. Not in this segment in general segments and we have to fix it. If we're spending a lot, let's do a much better favor. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91561	On behalf of SDP representative Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91562	I would like to thank the esteemed vice president of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. So these amendments and additions to the Law on Criminal Procedure are mostly to say technical nature and to comply with other laws governing the area of justice and related to criminal proceedings. A few changes here, though they have... The character of coordination means, however, a major change in content. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That is what I would have said by introducing the jurisdiction of the county court to decide on appeals against the verdict of all municipal courts in criminal cases, regardless of where it is therefore geographically displaced. This provision, as well as a provision which stipulates that cases will now be assigned to work on a random algorithmic division, achieve even distribution and equal burden on judges of county courts, so no matter where they are stationed. So far, the burning problem of ineffectiveness of the judiciary has been precisely what I would say is an unequal distribution of cases and the unequal burden of judges which has led to excessive lengthy length of proceedings. Some judges had a lot of subjects at work and some simply had nothing to do. This thus ensures much greater efficiency and economic efficiency in the conduct of the courts themselves. We of the SDP Club therefore find that this measure will also contribute to equating judicial practice in such a way that access to cases will be more objectively objectively and therefore allow wider access to individual specific practices. However, since the establishment of the High Criminal Court is delayed, it seems to me that further steps will need to be taken. But I think those steps are primarily in the hands of the court. And already now in relation to cases where the County Court of First Instance, therefore the Supreme Court had the possibility of unifying that case-law, therefore, in relation to that group of cases. In any event, the possible initiation of joint meetings, i.e. judges of the criminal department of the county judges and judges of the Supreme Court, with regard to the unification of practices in certain areas where the greatest deviations in practice have been recorded. I believe that such a practice even exists, but obviously it has not received the effects that it wanted to achieve because otherwise this problem would not even be highlighted here, so obviously it takes extra action. But I stress, first of all, that it is up to the judicial authority to even the case law, and for that I think there are already enough instruments at the disposal of the judicial authority itself. Therefore, given that these amendments will also act on the unification of court practice as well as on the grounds of economicity in acting as the minister himself has already said, we therefore find it justified to postpone the establishment of the High Criminal Court. A provision that is technical but in real life will mean a major cost reduction and a acceleration of the process is also the introduction of the possibility that the parties participate in council meetings, therefore using this remote connection device. Regardless of the need for this change, given the change in jurisdiction of the county courts, we certainly welcome this shift from the SDP club to the introduction of the EU principle of administration and therefore into the area of trial. Please allow me, perhaps, to point out that the Ministry of Justice and Advantage in introducing this principle into the work of both the ministry and the judiciary. Namely, the Ministry successfully... and project e- subject which, therefore, public and free service that allows information on the subject... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here is how surely these amendments to the Penal Procedure are not a coincidence but a consequence of systematic work to introduce this principle into practice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was here to discuss costs, so from my experience, I would say in principle that any cost in introducing the principle of eGovernment and administration and in the judiciary and therefore the entire state administration in principle means both cost and much greater savings. I think the minister well explained that this will be the case here. I also welcome the provision which prescribes the extension of the obligation, hence the delivery of a copy of a final judgment when it concerns officials appointed or confirmed by the Parliament, the Government or the President of the Republic of Croatia and officials in units of local and regional self-government as well as public notaries. This is how we believe that the possibility of accidental or deliberate ignorance of the existence of a final judgment will be completely excluded. In a layman's dictionary, it is now completely excluded that someone is pretending to say hump and fail to regulate the status of convicts who are no longer allowed to do the work they do, and apparently such cases have been in practice. As a significant change, the change should therefore be highlighted in relation to the possibility of carrying out the evidence, verifying the establishment of telecommunications contact. So this was the case when people at the Operations Technical Center were able to monitor who was calling, who was communicating with whom via phone, cell phone or e-mail address. The new solution therefore limits this possibility only to the case where such information is collected in relation to purely serious criminal offences, and not so far to any criminal offences for which there is the possibility of prosecution under official duty. I would say that this change ensures, as it is said, to a greater extent respect for private life and protection of personal data. As we at the SDP club find that this law represents a necessary and good upgrade of the basic text of the law, the SDP club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91563	On behalf of the club of independent representative Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91564	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. Initial support to make these changes and additions. The amendments are relatively short, so let it be a brief discussion of them, with one principled remark. Of course, no law is too good to change and supplement too many times, and in particular the laws that give the framework for the functioning of the judiciary, so the Criminal Law and the Criminal Procedure Act. What is the fact that again very clearly in this law all the problems of the Croatian judiciary, i.e. the functioning of courts, too many judges, unbalanced workload, length of court proceedings, work gaps, inequality of court practice. I've talked about this speaker a lot of times, too. The inequality of judicial practice is one of the problems we have to fight, which we must try to eliminate because it is ultimately a strong message and investors, i.e. it can be a strong foothold to strengthen economic and investment potential. Of course, every investor arriving in Croatia must be sure in this very sense that the practice will be uniform and that, of course, it will have to know very clearly and precisely what is expected of him in the event of the dispute. So it's a good analysis. I will repeat again, however, the remarks concerning the assessment of the funds needed to implement this law. It is said here that it is not necessary to secure resources in the state budget, not even to say additional funds, but to say that it is not necessary to provide the means which are quite safe for the implementation of each law, because we are now talking about the CAP as a whole, that it is necessary to secure the funds. It would be good if we had all the projections, on all the items concerning these amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act. It gives up, or I am correcting, not giving up, but prolonging the introduction of the High Criminal Court. We haven't actually heard a single particularly strong argument so far as to why, there was no analysis, but the fact is that it's been a long time and that it could have been before the Parliament and with the analysis. But also, in due course, if the Ministry of Justice considers that we do not need such a kind of court, then of course we could discuss it and finally plead. This is how the High Criminal Court remains on paper, delayed for a while and actually transferred to the authority of some future governments, future ministers, or future ministries. Of course, I don't think Ministers can be a minister again, but they certainly do... Yes, yes, the minister throws something aside, but I won't comment on it now. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So the High Court of Penalty, you need to repeat here once again, is designed just as a court that will help level the case law. The case-law in my opinion can be evened up effectively in one place, and this re-exploitation by county courts which, according to this proposal, each county court becomes competent in the appeal procedure of the judgments of all municipal courts. I'm afraid there won't be a goal that's commendable. So I repeat, unifying court practice, but I'm afraid this new solution will not be achieved. So, it's well imagined but it remains before us that the question remains how effectively, and I join all those who think it can only be through one court that will be competent to level the case-law in the Republic of Croatia. That's an important problem. And what I of course support is a trial in absentia, especially of course, to highlight the examples of war crimes. The minister mentioned Kadjevic and the 2002 indictment. I believe that in his case, in the case of Kadjevic, things are very clear and that in his case, although he will not be able to be tried, we do not have to commit ourselves to the presumption of innocence as a constitutional category. In any case, support and application for too often do not go too often to amend the Criminal Procedure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91565	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, colleague Nenad Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91566	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure. These are the sixth amendments to the ZKP supplement, and are in line with the Law on Areas and Court Headquarterss. Every County Court becomes responsible for deciding on complaints against all municipal courts in criminal cases and will be assigned randomly to an algorithmic department, I hope only that the files will not be lost on the way. In order to avoid an increase in the cost of second-degree courts, the possibility of attending parties at sessions via audio video remote communication devices is introduced and I think it's okay. In recent years, a fall has been observed in first-degree and second-degree criminal cases, so there is no need to establish a new court, i.e. the High Criminal Court, to decide on the second-degree appeal of municipal and county courts. This law synchronises individual articles and nomotechnically edits and precisions... so he says if the official appointed or confirmed by the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the President of the Republic of Croatia is legally convicted, the Court of First Instance will forward a copy of the powerful judgment to the body appointed or confirmed by that official. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the case of an official of a unit of local and regional (regional) self-government, the Court of First Instance shall provide the competent authority of a local (area) regional self-government with a final ruling. As of yesterday, we first have such a decision, a decision to prohibit the exercise of activity, or a duty, which should also be delivered to the competent authority, or local unit, of the local self-government unit. Speaking of officials, the same law has not resolved such a matter of personal income when they are in an investigation prison on the run or are prohibited from performing their duties. For officials, it is settled by law and their personal income is reduced by 60%. We know about the workers if they don't come in five days in a row to get fired, which means it may not be up to you. But the government would certainly have to consider and make such a decision. Furthermore, the catalogue of criminal offences for which specific evidence actions may be designated has been added to the criminal offence of the counterfeiting of medicinal products or medical products. Given the danger to health, for the lives of people who produce and distribute counterfeit drugs it represents it is quite and justifiable. The possibility of carrying out evidence, verifying and establishing telecommunications contacts has been further constrained in such a way that this evidence shop can only be carried out for the purpose of collecting evidence, criminal offences for which specific evidence actions can be designated, and other criminal offences which have been subject to a prescribed sentence of more than five years, and not more for any criminal offence for which the criminal proceedings are initiated under official duty. I think it's also okay, because it gets into a person's privacy. Here, I don't want to be too long. Amendments should increase the legal certainty of citizens and achieve a level playing field, the burden of courts, which should ultimately increase both the urgency of work and shorten the duration of criminal proceedings. So we will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91567	On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a colleague, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91568	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. The stand-alone Democratic Serb Party's club for most of the changes made in this proposal has no objections. We believe it is good, and the practice will show how well that since 1 April 2015 all county courts have declared themselves competent for second-degree judgments, i.e. the judgments taken after the judgments of municipal courts. And it's good that random algorithm selection is chosen which court will receive which case. Of course, it will probably require certain costs when there are parties and their lawyers, but it will undoubtedly speed up the proceedings and shorten the waitings, shorten the burdens some county courts have, and some do not have and likely reduce the risks when it comes to assigning the cases to individual judges and individual courts. And we understand that as an important technical detail with consequences that can be extremely significant for the full independence and professionality of the judiciary and not to be subjected to any kind of influence. We also consider it a very positive fact that Article 133 is precise. The CAP, which now clearly and precisely determines what is the maximum duration of the investigation. Because we've had so many experiences that especially in USKOK cases, the investigation could have lasted longer than six months, or that it could have lasted another six months on the previous six months. This is not a good practice because it seems potentially significant damage to detainees, and at the same time it does not encourage investigative authorities or the DORH or anyone else to prepare themselves for work on the charge rather than to build the indictment in the process itself while holding people in custody instead of preparing the indictment before and then making witnesses and others insured during that period of 6 months. As regards Article 475. The CAP and the added paragraph 9 allowing the presence of parties at the second-degree court meeting to be ensured with the assistance of a closed technical remote connection device, so the audio-video device, we welcome and consider it very important. In this way, economic savings appear to reduce costs for the party and at the same time increase the availability of parties not only witnesses but also parties in criminal proceedings that enables it. And that's what we support. What we do not support is an amendment to the government, which, under some unusual circumstances, has decided to adopt at its session yesterday. I don't want to believe that these circumstances are political and I don't want to believe that they're parapolitical but I'm afraid that given the speed and the fact that they didn't make adequate preparations when it came to actually not being. That it's not about justice. It's about politics. And now I'm going to say why. So far, because, first of all, it is thought of the war crimes trial, as far as I have heard from the Minister in the media who have been transferred, if the minister is well transferred, it is said that because the Court of Justice's decision of several years ago and the opinion of the Supreme Court of several years ago, then because of the requests of the European Commission at the time of the negotiations and the OSCE at the time, Prime Minister Kosor certainly knows that because Mrs Kosor was a prime minister at that time because she was one of the important conditions, the institute is now returning even though the procedures in absentia are not considered acceptable standards and acceptable solutions both by European and international and by the OSCE and by the Council of Europe and by the European Commission and the European Parliament. And on their demands, and also on the practice we had of which I'm going to say something about now after this, it's decided to end the trial in absentia. I'll give you a case, Mr. Minister. Edith Raden and her brother Ernest, she's a nurse and he's a basketball coach. He was sentenced to 20 years for a war crime in absentia. Because someone heard from someone who heard that she was like a nurse at a local site where a war crime was committed. There is no other evidence or court has tried to secure them. She got 20 years away. Do you know, Mr. Minister, how many such judgments are currently in absentia by our courts? Five hundred. You know what those judgments were judged in absentia and many judgments at all, there were nearly 4,000 of them, so that people would be intimidated not to return to those who were in exile. Because no one knew if he was under investigation, whether he was convicted in absentia or not. And as a consequence, you have such a weak return as you have in spite of your efforts not to. Mr. Minister, with this institute of justice, it was in the function of a perverse policy to intimidate people, not to return, not to satisfy justice. If justice were to be served then those who did the crime would be sanctioned. Then those who were really responsible for what the crimes were committed would be sanctioned. And this is because of certain circumstances, we are now returning the Institute of Detentions without knowing what it will produce. So, two things I want more. First, since 2004, we have been trying to make an agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia. Our State's Attorney's Office and the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Serbia agree that those who have committed war crimes are made available to courts, and those who are not to be released from the charges for which they have been accused or for whom they have been convicted, and who have endured the sentences of about 5 hundred. So much for talking about how no one's ever been convicted of anything. And on the other hand, it was interrupted in 2011. And since then, that agreement has no longer worked. And since 2011, political relations between Zagreb and Belgrade have not worked, except in protocol. And if you think about making this kind of decision instead of encouraging the strengthening of this agreement and the co-operation between the prosecutions, you will, in fact, work most directly against the co-operation of prosecutors, i.e. lawyers, and this is how you will reintroduce relations between Croatia and Serbia into the web of mutual conflict and mutual use of war crimes convictions for political competition and that those who have committed crimes will remain inaccessible to our judiciary and the judiciary of those who should do so. That will be the consequence of this amendment. And in the end, I'd like to remind you of one more thing. The government is proposing an amendment for the trial of those who are absent, Mr. Minister, what does the judiciary and the government do for those who are approachable and not sanctioning them? What does it do for the crime in Varivods committed against Serbian civilians who stayed in their village and were killed months after the Storm? Are they inaccessible? What does it do with witness protection in case of a crime against the Grubars, is it not available, do you need this amendment to do so? What does it do with a crime case in Gosić, and you are not available, so you need to change this amendment to sanction them in absentia, or does our judiciary not do its job? Why doesn't Mr. Minister start working on our judiciary and start sanctioning those who have certainly committed crimes? If those who have freed the court in The Hague did not do so, even though it is said that those who did so will be punished, why do we not? Why are we going back to the story before the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia is concluded when Wednesday is the availability of those who committed crimes and the release of the responsibility of those who did not do so? Why are we re-involved in a political campaign and you won't benefit from this? If you didn't have this amendment, we would have supported the law. Since you have it, we will not support it, and not only will we not support it, but we will have a serious political frustration between us and the government because of the fact that this benefits nothing but political harm. If someone thought that in these circumstances, they would inhale some benefit and show that Croatia would process war crimes rather than process them at home such fog as it was in earlier years. By having that fog to prevent people from returning, to prevent people from realizing who committed all the war crimes, and what war crimes should be punished, and to understand what war crimes were committed. And so this fog that you're trying to pin down on someone who's trying to stop judicial cooperation from working, like they did in 2011, so with that fog, the government, and the country's judiciary, they're not going to get anything, they're going to get nothing but damage.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91569	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91570	A fellow Pupovac, the Institute of Absence, is the exception of the trial, i.e. the obligation for the defendant or defendant to be present in court, only in situations where the defendant cannot be reached. And it's not some new institute, it's an institute that's always existed in our law and no matter what criminal acts it is. If we go back to this period that I can agree with you very well, this institute has been widely used and the evidence has really been exactly what you're talking about. As a result, since 2000, a good part of the revision of such procedures has been done, even lists and changes between Serbia and Croatia to see which persons they are, that people know they exist. We also had a situation with us in Croatia when, which is exactly what you are saying that the European Commission strongly opposed it is an institute that although it existed, it does not apply. So it started not to apply. Then you had people's questions, first we... why is he being tried, then we had a question why isn't he being tried. I think at this one stage where they're going to be, so a good one ratio, they shouldn't be against that institute. A team more and a team before it is an exception that allows for the renewal of proceedings where it is not enough to say, state the reasons neither factual nor any, enough to say, I am asking for a renewal of the procedure. So these are all mechanisms so that it doesn't happen, and if there were abuse of what you're talking about and the decisions that have been made almost without any evidence, that's how it is, but I hope those are the times behind us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91571	Milorad Pupovac, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91572	Dear fellow Anticevic, unfortunately the tails of these times are still quite long today. I told you, five hundred people are under investigation, five hundred convictions in absentia, and instead of being freed, and those not guilty of being free people and being able to travel, what are we doing now? We are now renewing the institute to increase the number of people we will judge in absentia. Under what circumstances? By what rules? With the practice we've had so far in the trial, with what we have in Osijek when it comes to... the process in which you have your witnesses mounted, it certainly won't be good. And at the same time at home, we won't be doing what we're supposed to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91573	Mile Horvat, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91574	Thank you. Dear fellow Professor Pupovac, you said in one part of the debate that this amendment to the government which yesterday, so the government brought before the concept, so... after the concept of the ministry, was fog. Therefore, the DORH report since 2012 clearly states that war crimes, aggregated data by county, state attorneys, indicted persons for war crimes in absentia, Bjelovar 625, Osijek 168, Sisak 300, Slavonski Brod 165, Split 106, Sibenik 148, Vukovar 192, Zadar 262, etc., etc., total of 3436 persons charged in absentia according to the DORH report. Convicted as you said 557 and 706 suspensions. I ask the question, the question would be the Minister if they could ask, in what way were they convicted, convicted, or accused, convicted and suspended proceedings without this amendment? So, in what way could all this be done if the first assumption of the process could not be created, and this is the delivery of the indictment proposal and delivery of the solutions for the initiation of the investigation and delivery of all those... which are a fundamental material element for the conduct of a quality court procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91575	Milorad Pupovac, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91576	Dear fellow Horvat, thank you for supplementing this presentation on the figures of the defendants' proposals and judgments to the absentees. He shows a more complete picture than I did in my presentation and, unfortunately, more defeative than I showed it, and that's that long tail that's left, which we haven't quite solved in the way we've undertaken to solve it. And what worries me very much is that when it comes to the trials available to us here, whether they were initiated, whether they were particularly unstarted processes, crimes committed against civilians of Serbian nationality, there is almost no enthusiasm here, and there is almost no initiative and they will say that this is a matter of the judiciary, although this is a matter of justice, only a poor judiciary, Mr. Minister. That justice which represents a bad past and whose tails today we feel and whisper... and in relations within Croatia, and also in relations between countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91577	Dragan Montenegrin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91578	Thank you. My colleague, I couldn't agree more when you said that this amendment that came yesterday was absolutely uncommunicated in any way, technically or in substance, for us was quite surprising. Here, we heard that this Institute of Absence when the European Commission gave it, so the observations were actually not just applied, and now it's back to function. I could ask if this amendment should it be adopted, does that mean a breach of the treaty with the EU? Does this mean, as I say, something beyond what is in the spirit of EU member states, a violation of some norms of the EU's society? I don't know why the government is proposing this amendment, to whom this amendment really needs, to whom it will benefit or better say why it will be used? And eventually, if you allow what you just said, it's about non-processing certain crimes. So if we're not afraid that we're going to have some negative echoes for this amendment, as we're not afraid we're not going to have negative echoes when it comes to non-processing war crimes that have been waiting for a long time, I'd say even since back in '91. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91579	Milorad Pupovac, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91580	Thank you, Madam Vice President. As for the interpretation of our obligations under our accession contract, especially in Annex 7 and point 9, there is room for your question, because the Republic of Croatia has remained in the obligations regarding the return of refugees and the war crimes trial. But of course, we forget very often as we forget the bad practice that the Institute of Absence has produced, which it has created and forgotten is a positive practice which is the removal of this institute and the creation of an agreement with the countries in the BiH region, Serbia, Montenegro as a better institute for making available those who have committed crimes. I want to say right now that I am the last person to defend anyone who has committed a war crime so that my closest is, but given the fact that the campaign is conducted is judicial and in what capacity and everything used by the Institute of Trials in absentia, we, Mr. Minister, have many reasons to say that this is contrary to the provisions of our agreement with the EU. And let us also remind once again that this will draw attention from the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to prosecute the crimes committed in the Republic of Croatia and the crimes committed and that the perpetrators are only available there is a long time gone so it is not known what actually happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91581	Thank you very much. Minister Orsat Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91582	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First of all, the government can neither determine nor dare what is to be processed. So this grudge of yours you have was absolutely there or will be and will be the attorney general, ask him, see why and what is done. The government in that segment that can absolutely be defined as having to be processed, and I think that's what we all in this country think no matter who the victim is and who the perpetrator is, and that I have to treat everyone equally. And this government has never, in any way, deviated from that principle, nor will it stand down. And whatever it is, so you see that the government is now being accused of having a political impact on this or that procedure, it's simply not true like it's not true that we've been involved in some current procedures now, we're not in these and we can't and we can't influence whether nobody can ask us to do that or not. And that story begins and ends with government and influence. What is the task of government and we think that this is what we are doing and what we must do is spread the atmosphere in which all perpetrators must respond in which no crime must remain unpunished regardless of the character of any victim or perpetrator and we must work on it as a society. And whoever doesn't, we need to do it again in the mechanisms that we have, and the judiciary here is completely independent and just deciding on its personnel, no one decides on the side because they can't do what they can by the Constitution. But let's get back to the amendment now. And I agree that these examples that you have set are absolutely inadmissible, but with this amendment, we do not affect the existence and the possibility of a trial in absentia. It exists now and in no way is there anything that would not exist. So you know that even recently, I'm thinking of Vasiljevic and others in absentia for the camps in Serbia if we're talking about it, so it has nothing to do with this here. When you talk about political connotations here's the political way that the State's Attorney's Office has written a proposal for this amendment on November 3rd. So the State's Attorney's Office can write you a memo in which they say that in practice they sometimes encounter with it and that they need to intervene and that's that story ending. We've considered and said that you should specify exactly why you know? To protect the defendant's rights. And here we have to as a country to define what and how. But the absentee trial exists in the current arrangement and is being conducted. And I'm going to go further I think whenever there is, but the question now is whether the indictment is quality, and I agree that we need to carry out a review, that we need to rebuild, see that these examples that you've made don't happen, that absolutely can't happen. But where there's a high-quality indictment, where there's evidence I still don't see why and for the legal certainty of the defendants, without talking about the victims of any nationality or anywhere else we would not be tried in absentia both in war crimes and in any other case. Why not, just maybe it's a question and it needs to be discussed whether the path that came to the indictment is of quality, whether the evidence exists, but it's not a question of this amendment. We can open a wider policy as far as it goes, but I'm saying it's not a question of the CAP and what we're dealing with here. Let's say openly what's being resolved by the amendment? It solves the moment when the defendant is informed or not about the prosecution and whether to have a lawyer, means who is being notified. And we here say that, at the moment of the adoption of a solution to the investigation, the defendant is being notified, on official duty. And that's all that's being solved by the amendment. And I really don't see what the problem is. It's a technical matter that goes in the end line and in favor of the defendant's rights. But if that's the problem, okay, that's it. And if we have a problem with the institute as such, then he's getting rid of it elsewhere but he's not in this amendment. And this amendment doesn't introduce anything that doesn't exist. It exists and applies. Well, here's an example. And what you said, I agree with you, the first initiative I made as a minister, was to meet with the then minister of justice of the Republic of Serbia to conclude an interstate agreement. It means something that would be stronger than this prosecution deal with this particular goal of keeping no perpetrator unpunished. It's reacted extremely well. We have entered technical discussions on this, but on the other hand is a completely closed story about it. Our offer regarding this agreement is still on the table. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91583	Milorad Pupovac, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91584	Mr. Minister, there's a folk saying that whoever the snake bites is afraid of that lizard. And this absentee trial was such that it did enormous damage because of the lack of quality of justice, because of lack of interest in evidence, for witnesses and for actual facts. And if that institute that's trying to complement what you're saying is going to serve what our fears are, then it's going to be hard to compromise the suggestions you're going to. For this reason, we warn you on time, because of the absence of cooperation between prosecutors, or lawyers, between the courts that allow those who are perpetrators of crime to be free and those who do not have this guilt are brought in, sanctioned and prevented by those who are the fundamental rights of return, the right to return, the right to a home, the right to free movement. The absence of this cooperation that we have recorded here since 2011 is a problem and I fear that this cooperation will not be improved. If you give me an argument by which this cooperation will be promoted, I will gladly accept that argument. And as for co-operation, I am sorry if this cooperation has not reached the extent to which it needs to be, but the political statements made in recent days will certainly not improve that cooperation, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91585	The reply to the replica of Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91586	Thank you very much. So, absolutely, if abuse occurs, the person who has committed this abuse should be sanctioned and the entire institute should be audited. However, according to the current arrangement which is not relevant, so it is not touched by this amendment, see Article 402. paragraph 3. Therefore, the defendant can only be tried in absentia if there are particularly important reasons, only if there are particular reasons why he is tried and cannot be tried in a foreign country, it is not possible to prosecute in a foreign country or not possible to extradite or is an fugitive indictee or not accessible to state authorities. And it's something that we don't touch that exists now and it's a device that no one has objected against. So I told you what we're dealing with now with the amendments. But therefore the assumption is and logically it is that the state, to offer another state's trial to carry out it, where the defendant is, if that is not possible, then should be tried in absentia. And let's not even look at this just through that prism, we have other trials in absentia and for other objects, and that's something that should simply exist. The economic crime of someone else. And these statements that may have been the way they have been lately and come after two years there is no answer at all to our initiatives that some things are going to be resolved. And that's how it is and that's the problem, I agree, but some of the things and some of the criteria that apply to Croatia should apply to all other countries. And I can't agree that it's not like that. And the fact that we need to do more at home is that I agree with you. That some of the real ones didn't come to an end, either. And we need to address and create a climate to make it happen. But everything we've done here we have the right to demand from each other. And I can't back down from that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91587	Mile Horvat replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91588	I thank you, Mr. Minister. First, I can't help but think that it's too indicative that we received this amendment yesterday after the cabinet session and after the arrest of General Kadjevic. You had the prepared text, you had the concept of law enforcement, and we respect that. So the ministry had its own vision of the problem, so you suggested it, and now suddenly after yesterday's session of the government, we get this amendment. So that's my subjective assessment of things. The second thing, you said here that, of course, the Institute is a trial in absentia in the legal theory is a known thing, in practice a little less often because this is about particularly important reasons for the trial in absentia, as you yourself have quoted the provision of the law. I'm asking the question here, I've read the statistics, a DORH report that says, points to fraternities, 3400 indictees, remains room for 2,000 more processes by opening up, these processes are being opened by the power of this amendment. So I ask the question is whether this amendment is now ending one policy of the DORH absolutely mass and the question is whether it was a justified accusation whether or not it was an accusation in principle as my colleague Pupovac said in his statement, heard, said, said, and convicted you. Because I repeat, it's 3,500 indictments and 2,000 still unprocessed because we don't have formal legal conditions. Now we create them, we give them a defender by official duty who will receive everything possible, all the letters, all the acts and the process will go, the man will not be present here. And the other thing, the basic question is how could it then be prosecuted without that amendment, all the strong people who have been convicted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91589	Thanks, buddy. Replication response, Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91590	So I said there was an amendment. I'm not going in when it's been discussed, is that what we've mentioned is this possibility. It is indicated in practice that it can cause a problem. It doesn't cause it because as you can see, these trials are being conducted today, but if you have one legal text, why don't you specify it. I've pointed out an object recently set out in Osijek also in absentia. So that's something that's going on. What you said, and I completely agree with you, there must be no indictments that are not justified and if there is no evidence and they need to be audited and that is exactly what needs to be done. But I'm also convinced that we'll all agree, where the case comes through an investigation approved by the court, through an indictment which there is evidence at that time, a choice between that person being charged with x-years and actually not even knowing what she's up to, because there's been an indictment or going to trial in absentia to see the quality of evidence, and the renewal is always possible. I think this is a better solution because the current situation, these accusations exist, they're here. I agree that they can't matter if there's no evidence, but where there's evidence stories need to be done for everyone, not just for witnesses and victims, but for the defendants, because they're in the situation. So you're under indictment, you're not even meant to be, and even in that process, the quality of evidence has not been examined, and that can last forever. And so let's not define ourselves and priorities negatively if they are practices. And I agree with this that we should be afraid of maybe some bad practices, and if that happens, we need to influence that it's not happening, but let's really look at what this brings. It doesn't bring the problem we're talking about, the problem is somewhere else, and we need to address it differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91591	On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Vesna Sabalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91592	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Honorable ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. The HNS club of Liberal Democrats will support the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act. These amendments and additions to the law freely state that the law is modernised and improved, is in line with the Law on Areas and Courts, which removes shortcomings in the existing system of the judicial network, which has been subject to a lot of talk, input and some newspapers in criminal proceedings aimed at effective, faster, more economical procedures, of course with the provision of the rights of defendants and other persons. It shall also remove ambiguities or more precisely establish provisions and comply with the relevant laws, i.e. national and international law. The most important thing for us is that since 1 April 2015 every county court will become competent to decide on complaints against all judgments of all municipal courts in criminal cases, as well as to assign cases to county courts to random algorithms, I would say computer allocation. This is a significant reform, it was about this talk because the contributions and transparency and trust of citizens according to the procedure removes any possibility of manipulation of the award of cases according to the preference of judges and the like. So you won't know where the case will end, which judge and which court. And besides restoring citizens' trust in the judiciary, it is also important that this is how judicial practice is balanced throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. We support a postponement for the establishment of the High Criminal Court of the Republic of Croatia by 1 January 2020 and for the reason that the second-degrees drop has been observed in recent years, as spoke the minister. In addition to the fact that this newspaper, according to which county courts decide to appeal against the judgments of all municipal courts, will contribute to better efficiency, more uniform workload of courts and ultimately to greater urgency and shortening the duration of criminal proceedings. For reasons of prescribing the general jurisdiction of the county courts, it was also necessary to specify the time limit for the possible application for the exemption of judges with the Law on Areas and Courts because the party will no longer know at the time of the assembly of the appeal which county court and which judge will be competent as it was until the adoption of this law. This provision shall only specify that the application may be submitted no later than the beginning of the sitting of the court to which the case is assigned. The newspaper is also an audiovisual session follow-up, which was a lot of talk. We also support that. The amendments and additions shall be made more clear and the maximum duration of the investigation prison and Article 133 shall be determined. The CAP adds that the maximum length of the investigation prison is prescribed to add a new item, which stipulates that corruption and organised crime cases, i.e. in USKOK cases where the investigation has been extended the overall duration of the investigation prison extends to the time for which the investigation has been extended. This does not lead to an extension of the maximum length of the investigative prison so as not to violate the principle of proportionality of the sentence. The list of bodies to which a copy of a final judgment is sent shall be extended in order to enable all bodies to initiate appropriate procedures to regulate the status of convicts. The possibility of conducting specific evidence actions for the crime of counterfeiting medicinal products and other medical products is expanded, and we particularly welcome this because the online sales and distribution of such counterfeits are emerging and the perpetrators remain unpunished. And in the end, one provision that does not extend, but narrows down the powers of a restrictive apparatus, which is to further narrow down the carrying out of the evidence store, checking the establishment of the telecommunications contact that I've translated myself into listening. And according to the existing law, that action could be taken in all criminal acts, and after new changes only in serious criminal offences. The paper is an amendment and an amendment and one of the provisions that I would call a melem for the wounded soul of the victims of large-serb aggression, which is that the state's attorney gets the authority to carry out the art to determine whether there is a criminal offence in the event of a threat or any other reason, and most often because of the absence of the defendant, what it was just before it could be done in order to determine whether in particular it was a criminal offence and whether there was sufficient degree of suspicion of conducting the reconnaissance and other actions. We welcome the amendment sent by the motionary, which allows for a trial in absentia for war crimes, for all war crimes. The issue is extremely sensitive because of the possibility of being cast out and what a colleague of Pupovac spoke about earlier. However, we can solve our relationships and problems only by truth and only by justice. Justice must be available and every crime should be prosecuted. What has been imposed here in one debate to politicise this decision and this amendment, of course, since, according to my assessment, I also disagree with the Hague court's decision in the case of Seselj, and of course, it causes such political debates. However, the only real solution is a judicial, judicial verdict for all crimes regardless of who committed them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91593	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91594	I would like to replicate to my colleague that this amendment, which has caused quite a heated debate here, allows a trial in absentia. The absentee trial is never by any amendment, not by any amendments to the law removed from our Criminal Procedure Act, so it was abolished. Since it has caused a lot of controversy, I will appeal and I think it is worth quoting Article 29, which states that everyone has the right to rule in a law established by an independent and impartial court justly and within a reasonable period of time on his rights and obligations or on suspicion or charges of a criminal offence. The second article in paragraph 8 states that he is being tried. So everyone has the right to be tried in his presence if the court is available. Therefore, we have been in practice stopped with such a trial often, but we have never been able to abolish that provision, remove it from our Law on Criminal Procedure, while existing the provision of Article 29(2) which, in fact, by the arguments of the contrastium, requires our legislation to be tried in these justified cases. So we don't have a mechanism at all to abolish that institute like it's never even been abolished. And that there was abuse and trial without thorough evidence, without often and necessary evidence, it's beyond any doubt. But if some institute is being abused, that's no reason to end it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91595	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91596	Here's because I have an individual debate, then I would no longer talk about these amendments to the amendment itself. But I will specifically point out once again how good it is to delay the application of the High Criminal Court because it is practically not worked out. Then when we were introducing the High Criminal Court which would be one completely, it was one new one in our trial, into our network of courts, and right into the institutions of our trial. It was possible to do that, I'll do it again, already in one replica and pointed out only in the Law of Courts. Which is why then the government didn't do it quite clearly. That was part of it, I could say, and the lobby that kept insisting that without any wide debate, whether to introduce or not the High Court. However, today we also heard Mr. Minister's argument that in fact it should not be against the establishment of such a court, but then it is known where he belongs. And that's why I ask the minister when it comes to being serious, because we see that there was no seriousness in establishing that court. No one alive knew that this court was established, nor were the funds secured, almost nothing. And I'll say it again, it was from that model in the '90s when we founded hundreds of courts and no material assets were provided and none of them started working for years. So, his place is in the Law of Courts, right in that head that speaks of structure, detour and jurisdiction of courts. Therefore, it burdens the Criminal Procedure Act needlessly. What the minister said and what he should absolutely agree with is that we need the High Court that will be tried in civil litigation even more. Therefore, it should be the High Court which would also have a criminal trial department or this in what form it is now, in a structural form, it will be established on that basis. However, in any case, which shows an analysis of how far the application of the Criminal Procedure Act as regards the speed of proceedings and efficiency has been, there is little to say about it. Here's the minister himself just mentioned what I think should be repeated to see the effects of the application of the Criminal Procedure Act, the possibility of making deals already in that previous procedure, not to speak before the court itself, governing court before the hearing court. So at this point, we have only 27% of complaints about a criminal trial. This speaks not only of the effectiveness of the Criminal Procedure Act but also of the quality of decisions because the parties are satisfied. They all file complaints in 27 cases on 100 cases, so 27%, which is anyway commendable. I believe that when there is a change and that is when we discuss criminal trial then we will also have reports of the situation in prison, the penitentiary, then we will see how much the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Penal Code have been affected. Because exactly the state of justice, especially the criminal trial, is best seen in a penitentiary system in penitentiary penitentiary and prisons that they are indeed reserved for serious forms of serious crimes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91597	Thank you very much. Minister Orsat Milenić, final? No, he doesn't. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. Let's get our colleagues and colleagues ready to vote now. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91598	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 734. The debate on the final draft law is closed. The amendments submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 13 November 2014 were submitted within the business deadline of the Croatian Parliament and became an integral part of the final draft law. The Government also submitted an amendment after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and in accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I am giving the Rules of Procedure the motion to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote on this proposal. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 97 votes in favour, no abstentions and 3 votes against, we accept that we are discussing and deciding on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would ask the government's representative, Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunšt, to explain the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91599	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the amendment amends Article 12 of the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act which determines the entry into force of that law. By the time the final draft amending and supplementing law on criminal proceedings entered into force on 15 December, it remained less than 8 days. By respecting the constitutional obligation to publish the law and to vacacio legis or time needed to get to know the law, it is proposed to amend Article 12 in the manner set out in the amendment, i.e. to provide that the final draft law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in the National Journal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-14-0.u91600	Thank you very much, dear Deputy Minister. I'm opening a debate. There are no interested clubs to discuss. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of the 103 votes voted in favour of, 5 abstentions, nothing against the votes accepted by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the team became an integral part of the final draft law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. The adoption of the law requires a majority of the votes of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament in accordance with Article 252. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The vote has begun. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes have 101 votes for, 7 abstentions and 1 vote against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
