ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u89457	It's on. My colleagues and colleagues, we asked for a break because, unfortunately, we are witnessing very worrying phenomena that are turning into a kind of trend. Namely, two, three days ago in Split, several young people were arrested and imprisoned for sticking posters in which they expressed their political stance. They didn't insult anyone, did nothing criminally, but because of it, I repeat, they ended up in prison for expressing their political stance, i.e. disagreements with former President Josipovic. What was on those posters that they used to tape, posters in A4 format so terrible? There were photographs of Mr. Josipovic and activist Mrs. Vesna Teršelic from the Association of Documents. So, someone Mr. Josipovic assigned a medal to. There was a photograph of one Mr. Josipovic in the military uniform of the former JNA and there was a poster on which some facts were mentioned which, in the opinion of the persons who expressed their political position to those posters were not in line with what the president of the Republic should represent and was the star of the five-pointed, I do not know whether or not it was something terrible and offensive and were the lyrics of the famous Croatian poet Antun Gustav Matoša, we will not be persecuting Matoša today in the 21st century. Why is it important to mention this event? It is important to mention this event because it makes all of us wonder where it is today, late 2014, in Croatia, which is an EU member, where is the limit of what is the expression of political attitude, and what is something that is subject to persecution? Is expressing a political stance that does not appeal to the ruling and current president of the Republic a reason for persecution, for the arrest and closure of anyone in this country? Is that what we all need to worry about together? Isn't that a pattern of behavior? Isn't that one event in a series of different events? We can remember what happened when some people before last year whistled at Knin Prime Minister Milanovic last year. We can remember what happened to Franciskovic who ended up in a psychiatric facility. And all of this together leads us to worry about what's going on with the democratic principles in this country. In fact, I think that's supposed to mean a reason for the alarm. Is there again a difference of opinion in this country, in Croatia in 2014? Can anyone and may be persecuted for expressing their political stance, stressing the political attitude, not insulting, doing nothing that would differ from democratic principles? Let us remember the story of how, in the opinion of the ruling in those terrible times of darkness when President Tudjman was, when the most tasteless jokes, jokes, insults in the media were presented, and no one was arrested for it, no one ended up in prison as usual in democratic countries. Today, in a country that is a member of the EU, people end up in prison for expressing a political stance. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we must all seriously imagine whether a different political attitude is allowed in this country, and even if you want to mock anyone who is not a candidate of the ruling and that's okay, and that's actually considered funny, it's considered a reflection of the liberal approach to things, and when it happens the other way around, then people end up in prison. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u89458	Thank you very much. Thank you, too. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u89459	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Reiner has injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 238, because by his conduct he deviates from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly. Namely, he attacked the judicial authority by alluding that the legislative executives are precisely those which conduct the judicial authority, but in one direct way, and in an indirect manner directly called and attacked the judicial authority. We may like that some are persecuted and we have an opinion about it, but we are silent about it by respecting our Constitution and the division of power. With what right do you touch the power of judgment?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u89460	Let the honourable MPs ask others with what right. President Reiner made his views known, if they're not true, we'll see. We are going to another club of representatives, it is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists and the Honorable Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u89461	Your Honor, Mr. President. Since my reason for the break was not this one, but the debate on the item on the agenda, I am not going to talk about this subject, but I am asking to be able to talk about the topic I asked for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u89462	Well, then, dear colleague Lesar can, but in the end. Let's finish up the club representatives who applied for this topic. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, on behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Linic, Vuksic and Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u89463	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I remember as a photo montage journalist on the front page of Feral when the first president of Croatia was published. Franjo Tudjman, and I remember that at that time, an initiative was launched to introduce Feralu tax, but then the culture minister opposed it and Feral's tax was not introduced and Feral continued to act. Now just before, Mrs Anticevic-Marinovic said that if we are talking about this topic, we should press the executive and judicial authority. First of all, if we see any deviations in executive and judicial power, it's our job to talk here. I don't think this is about arrest because these are people who have been brought in who have been glued to posters, and I don't think they're locked up in prison, but they've been punished. In order to act in this police place, it is absolutely certain that this repression is exaggerated to react in this way in the 21st century to the expression of attitude or political campaign that it is excessive, it is my personal opinion, and certainly that Mr. Josipovic did not ask for it or ask for any of the policies. It's those who are courting politics, it's a matter of police structure and police jurisdiction that does a job that shouldn't work because it's some kind of pressure on people who deal with political activity and it shouldn't be done. Therefore, we here in the Croatian Parliament should advocate democracy, for more freedom, and what was on the poster in Split can also be characterized as free political expressions, as a criticism, as an attempt to compare people with what they are entitled to. If we start banning it, we'll start being a police state. But I'm more concerned about another repression policy that hasn't been mentioned here. And this is a political repression announced by HDZ president who says red will disappear when HDZ comes to power. Let's say that those republican statements that are in America, red because their color is red, and the Democrats are blue, I think that would be a big-scale scandal. So the left will be forced into the mouse hole, unfortunately from the left is very little left in Croatia so there will be no one left to push into the mouse hole. There's a threat that a new history will be written, every government seems to write a new history, there's a threat of illustrating what shouldn't be a threat. I am for the lustration but the lustration and the ones that should have been lustrated before the '90s, but above all, I am for the lustration of those who allowed the robbery of the '90s that made Croatia unhappy, it should be lustrated. These are some political threats we remain deaf to, which really scare me. What has been done in Split is to be condemned, I think that it is excessive and that we must not condemn those who wish to express their political opinion, that it is only a violation, if it is an offence, if it is a disturbance of public order and peace. I think it was more of a political attitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u89464	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u89465	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. What do we know from publicly published sources? "According to the Split-Dalmatia Police Administration's allegations yesterday, 4 persons have reported a misdemeanor due to the existence of suspicion of the initiation of the infringement referred to in Article 5. The law on violations against public order and peace. They are posters in Zagreb, Varazdin, some places in Istria, Vukovar, Osijek, Slavonski Brod, Trogir, Orahovica, Lipik and Pakrac. Two detained brothers with some initials were released about 14 hours after they admitted guilty, the other two were given a warrant yesterday to report to the police urgently." Now what Article 5 says. The Law on Public Order and Peace Misdemeanors "Whoever distributes printed or recorded things in an unusual, intrusive or bold manner and thereby disturbs the peace of the citizens will be punished by a fine of 25 to 150 euros". What difference of opinion? In this commentary of this article, this would be useful for you to hear "Content irrelevant to the survival of the offence". No matter what the content is, it is important that people violate public order and peace in an intrusive and bold way. That's what the law says. Now what would HDZ want? HDZ stands up for the fact that their members or sympathisers, I do not know how to unpunish the law and that no one can do anything to them in an intrusive and insolent way, in accordance with HDZ's behaviour, disturb public order and peace and bore other peaceful citizens and in several places in Croatia, obviously in organised action. This is entirely in the spirit and tradition of HDZ politics and the usual behaviour of HDZ. They would carry money into their party stolen from public companies in bags, keep it there until the circle of indications closes around them, then they would take those money to the state's attorney's office and keep them in their party rooms for months, in their party safe, and they would not want to process them for it. I understand their way of thinking. But in the civilised state as we want Croatia to be, it will not happen. This may happen if HDZ comes back to power again, then they'll steal again, wear in black bags again, disrupt public order and peace, they and their sympathisers come to their senses. But this kind of commitment for those who break the law in the House, like this, that's what I think it's outrageous. This cannot happen in any parliament or in any civilised country that one parliamentary party in parliament stands up for those who break the laws. My colleague Vuksic, you should take care of that, too, because you also say this is an exaggeration. So when the police, when the police enforce the law, the law this House passed is an exaggeration. And what were they supposed not to do with the law, that they were supposed to do with HDZ, the parliamentary party that passed the laws? This is, what happened today is absolutely outrageous, the public must know, in the Croatian Parliament, there is a party in the Croatian Parliament that is strongly committed to not law enforcement in this country if those laws are violated by their sympathisers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u89466	Thank you, Your Honor. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, first honorary representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u89467	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Col. Stazić injured Article 238. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. What he would like to say is he is not anyone, he is not a representative only in the Croatian Parliament, he is even the vice president of this House. And he, as vice president of this House, certainly knows what was the reason for the break and speak for the club. And instead of talking about the subject for which the break was sought, Mr. Stazic has again and often confused his role so far. Because no matter what the vice president of the Croatian Parliament and no matter what he imagines, he is not a top state lawyer at the same time, he is neither a judge in any of these disputes, and at least he is the person who should give interpretation to the Croatian public and HDZ and parliamentary parties, distorted, wrong and malicious interpretation of the legal provisions. So I'm asking you to give him a heads-up about this show. And warn him to stick to his role in Parliament. [[/The President's intrusion: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u89468	Thank you very much. And the esteemed colleague Davorin Mlakar, and even if he was a representative and conceited, has no sanctions under the Rules of Procedure, even if he was conceited...... Yes, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You, of course, used the opportunity to report a breach of the Rules of Procedure in order to replicate fellow Stazić, because according to the Rules of Procedure there is no possibility of replicating in these situations, of taking the club's position. A new violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u89469	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. And I believe that it is an injured article 238, that a representative with his behaviour deviates from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly because his discussion seriously violates the democratic standards that have been reached in the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Stazić, vice president of the Croatian Parliament, is the first representative I have heard of here in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament who publicly advocates the introduction of a verbal delinquent, justifies him and calls for the persecution of his political inexperiences. I think it is inadmissible, that as President of the Croatian Parliament you should react, warn him that democracy has its own rules, that we in the Croatian Parliament should first hold and, unfortunately, Mr. Stazić, led by the tradition of 45 years of dictatorship and intolerance of a different political opinion, wants to introduce a verbal delinquent in the European Union today, and to pursue political inexperiences.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u89470	A colleague, Jandrokovic, you have also fallen into a trap, and you have almost qualified and condemned in a more drastic way. ... It is very good that it is not, that colleague Jandrokovic is here it is good, absolutely. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But he can't pass a verdict which is democratic, which is undemocratic and charge a colleague with it, and the same measure may be used by a stronger and shorter one than the fellow Stazic. Don't do it, don't use it. That's what citizens know, that's what citizens know. A colleague, Boro Grubisic, on behalf of the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u89471	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. All these discussions and the very reason for the break show one political warm-up in the election campaign for the President of the Republic. I'm hearing here that glued to A4 posters is a form, so it's said, qualified as an intrusive and bold way of disrupting public order and peace. .../The intruder can't be heard. No, I'm not going to say anything about which and for whom, but when we hear that qualification, then we wonder if it's really so that you stick up posters, or stick up posters or A4 formats if you're selling a cottage or an apartment to a tree in Slavonski Brod because it's also an insidious and impertinent way of disrupting public order and peace. ... /The noise in the hall./... Abs, what would these guys say, without h,...never h. What was I gonna say? I also heard the content published on these posters of A4 formats, among other things is a picture of a lady who runs some kind of organization document. So if it's a document, then I guess it documentes who's where he's been. I'm not ashamed when my grandkids are watching a photo album of mine from a long time ago, so when they see the picture, I was in '70. And for some years at JNA, he says, "Look at the doa Chetnik." (Laughter) But that's what it was, so it's not that, he says he sees it in Chetniks. But what bothers someone who was in JNA, so he was in JNA, you were all in JNA, and I was all those who served JNA, who are so old. Well, I don't know about that at all. If someone is proud of it, a five-point star as a symbol of communism, why in the first place, what is an intrusive and intrinsic disturbance of public order and peace? Thieves, criminals, turned frauds, fakes, tycoons are not arrested, and we also have a constitutional provision on conversion and crime in conversion and privatisation. That's all there is to it. Yesterday we were discussing the Immunological Institute, today in some newspapers there are no words, not because I need some pomp, but because of the question of who's behind it. ... Of course, yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So what it takes to do ours and the police and this PNUSKOK and the DORH and BOOK is not done or done as needed when it comes to getting out of the drawer, and we have so many entities, economic operators that have failed. Starting with our Đura Djakovic, PIC Jasinja in Slavonski Brod, the veterinary strongest in the country once was, failed, RIZ, Immunologically, though not to list further, in order. What about that lustration besides that political one that was supposed to be long gone because there's as much lustration in each other as you want. In addition, how is it that no one condemns and has impertinent and intrusive disturbance of public order and peace when someone points out what is condemned in the European Union and that we have somewhere in August so against totalitarian regimes and communism and... etc. We today have a phenomenon that people express themselves perfectly neatly, starting with Kumrovec, etc., symbols of totalitarian regimes. They have them on the streets of Zagreb here as many graphite as you want, and no one has reported anyone to be intrusive and insolently disrupting public order and peace, nor has there been a search for such or investigations, however you will, obviously, I do not know what it is said. They play a kosher bike and a pleasure bike in our cities, villages and streets. No one says it's an intrusive and brazen disturbance of public order and peace and the splendor of one of the totalitarian regimes. It's not sanctioned at all, it's not registered. And most of all, it pains me that there is no sanctioning or repressive measures against those who have destroyed this country, which is why we are now in the situation as we are, who have taken away the core and substrate of the Croatian state, in what way. Starting with those contracts with foreigners, selling and energy and information, so as strategic goals of every country, including Croatia. Nothing about it, I say it here and there when there's a need for someone to get away with it. When we talk about football, someone gets away with it, when we talk about this, someone gets away with it, etc. That's why I personally regretted the most on the Split Riviera on Saturday one poster on which ZG=BG wrote. It saddens me, it hurts me, it pains me to share in the Croatian people that Zagreb is equating with Belgrade is known in what sense. That hurts. ... I don't know who's doing it, I've seen it on TV. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Not much is shown but the far-sighted ZG=BG was well-observed. I'm sorry, and I can't regret a poster like that. There's no one in the hall because of that poster. Wait a minute. Because of that poster, no one has been arrested for intrusive and insolent disturbances of public order and peace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u89472	Time. Thank you. Now we're going to hear from a colleague of Dragutin Lesar who's reported on another subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u89473	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I asked for a break because of a agenda item called the List of Candidates to elect four members of the HRT Programme Council. Very often in this assembly we also complain in public statements, we complain about the reduced dignity and the reputation of the Croatian Parliament in public among the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the reasons for such condition we have sought everywhere, but not among ourselves. The debate on candidates for the HRT Programme Council is on the agenda, and we are discussing everything but candidates. Just not about the candidates. I noticed another problem that we are creating again in the Croatian Parliament. Namely, the four members of the Programme Council expired on 26 October this year. The parent committee completed the procedure for proposing new candidates on 24 October. We open the debate on 4 November with an announcement of the vote next week, two months and a few days after the end of the term of office. Prossinca. I think and call on those responsible in the House who can influence us never again to blame the fact that a body is not elected or completed within the legal period, because it is unforgivable that the Assembly chooses the bodies for which the law is authorised to work after the term of office of two or more months. I think that the Secretariat of the Croatian Parliament and the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament must call on all bodies and institutions elected by the Parliament or appointed by representatives to announce the expiry of the mandate come 6 months before the end of the term of office, that this is no longer happening to us. It's a procedural problem. What confused me, however, offended me and worried me. As part of the debate on members of the Programme Council in the Croatian Assembly, a representative of the Croatian Parliament said publicly that when they came to power they would move anyone who did not want to. It has been completely undetected and the Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club has been fenced by the statement. I will not treat this as a threat, but as the most difficult form of pressure on journalists and editors on HRT. It is a pressure with a message that in the time they have left to watch what they are doing, it is also intended for the post of not only presidential campaigns, but also for the next parliamentary elections. And when it is said in the Assembly so publicly try to imagine the feeling, fear and uncertainty of journalists and editors of the information program who among other things follow and report from the Croatian Parliament that they are expected objectivity under the threat that they will all be moved if they are not satisfied with their way of working. I don't remember it possible it was, but I don't remember in these 11 years that someone was so directly pressured on public television and everything was gone. If we allow the Croatian Parliament, from the Croatian Parliament, to leave such messages, then people in HRT can only be protected so that they no longer report or follow anything because they will always resent someone. And therefore, Mr. Vice President, I believe that the position of the Croatian Parliament on this pressure that has been made should be stronger and more concrete than your replica and my debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u89474	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95018	Dear colleagues and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, we continue at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament on the established agenda. There is now a debate on - The list of candidates for the selection of four members of the HRT Programme Council is proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Law on HRT, the Croatian Parliament elects members of the Programme Council. In accordance with Article 25, paragraph 8 of the Law, the Committee on Information, Information and Media has submitted a list of candidates who meet the conditions laid down by this law. Does the Committee's representative want the board president? Yeah. Honorable representative Mladen Novak, opening statement. Here you go, colleague Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95019	Dear President, distinguished fellow MPs, MPs and MPs. The Croatian Parliament's decision of 26 October 2012 selected 9 of the Croatian Programme Council. At the constitutive session of the Programme Council, it was set out that the two-year term of office has four candidates. As their term of office expires on 26 October, the Information, Information and Media Committee launched a selection procedure for 4 members of the Croatian Programme Council and published a public call on telxt pages on 2 September 2014. The board received 14 applications and all arrived within the deadline. He considered them at his 36th session on 16 October 2014. After the debate, the conclusion was reached that all 14 candidates would be interviewed. The interview with candidates was held at the 37th meeting of the Committee on Information, Information and Media held on 23 and 24 October this year. Twelve candidates responded to the interview, Aleksandar Milosevic and the god Mimica apologized. After the talks with the candidates were published, the Committee unanimously with 8 votes to reach the conclusion that you received, so all 14 candidates are being forwarded to the further procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95020	Thank you, too, Mr. President-in-Office of the Committee. Before I open the debate, I would like to inform you of the way you vote and the results of the vote. Therefore, the Law on HRT, Article 25, paragraph 8, determines that the Croatian Parliament is voting individually on all proposals that meet the conditions for choice. The election decision is made by the majority of all MPs, so 76 votes must be given to a candidate who wants to pass. And now I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the club representatives, the club of Independent Representatives Linić, Vuksic and Hodzic, and in the name of the club, the respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95021	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The first change we're talking about on HRT, we're talking about changing people who are the best. If anything on HRT works well, it does the Program Council. The programme council is competent, 11 evaluates the programme, fulfils all obligations prescribed by law. And I'm really sorry that instead of talking about the program, we need to talk first of all about changing, because those are the rules and we need to respect, what's best. Of course this is an opportunity to talk about what the council is doing and evaluates the program. The Council pointed to the whole time of its mandate, a newly established council where there was no politicisation, in which there was no partying, in which there was the most professionalism. The council pointed to major problems that they face at the assembly. When we discussed HRT here at the beginning of the term of office, we concluded that the administration should leave because it did not meet the requirements set out in the law, it did not comply with what the law requires it to do. One of the biggest wrong moves has been made, and this is a completely inadequate change in the law in which powers are given to one man, and this is the director of HRT. Then, some will remember, I said that Batman couldn't handle all those powers that the law allows him and gives him, not only Batman even Chuck Norris couldn't handle it. And if Chuck Norris can't, then no one else can. Unfortunately, in the evaluations given by the Programme Council, what is done on HT are negative signs. The Programme Council shall, if you read their reports, if you follow their meetings, conclude that the HRT does not meet or complete or partially fulfil what is set before it. It is certain that HRT is not a public service today. HRT is what you see on the screen, not what their directors think and what their editors think. HRT is what you're looking at as much as you're looking at. We know from the beginning of the BBC draft a prominent prestigious public television that can be a meter to measure the performance of public television is said that public television must educate, entertain, inform. What's HRT doing? How many public funds does she have? A billion, 100 million and something million with these means can be made not good, not great, but fantastic television. Many of those who do commercial television on a completely different basis would jump out of luck into the air if they had that money. However, more than billions of kunas provided by and the poorest citizens of the Republic of Croatia are not being spent properly. First of all, when we chose the principal director here in the Parliament, his task was to restructure, set up an organisational scheme and put those people at the top of the program that would be able to create a scheme by which HRT would be what it should be, public television at the service of the citizens. However, HRT is not what it should be. If anything can and should be competed with commercial television, it is one segment and it is a section of information. So HRT can only compete with other televisions because their programs, public television programs and commercial TV programs are different programs. However, HRT continues to strive to compete with commercial television, but not in that segment in which competition is required, which is an information programme. The information program, although it has the largest HRT resources that has been shelled by the removal of correspondence, is at its beginning. She's at the beginning not only by ratings but by attractiveness, by the value of their program. Unfortunately, no concept has been found to date that could occupy the attention of Croatian viewers. And with the right HRT programs are unattractive, HRT programs are not the ones that could educate, entertain, inform. I hope that we will soon discuss the report on the operation of the HRT, the work of the Programme Council itself and that we will be able to hear representatives of the HRT that will give us the opportunity to do so at this time. In the programming sense, in the humane sense of HRT not that there was wandering, the HRT is a real mess. It's the chaos that gives us the program we see on the small screens. Unfortunately, the programme does not satisfy those who pay for the programme. Instead of the council, we should be here long before some members of the opposition's parliamentary representatives proposed, thinking about the shift and the principal director and some other people only the principal director can influence. So we will choose four people during the vote next week. I am personally sorry that Mrs Marina Mućalo did not report to the competition, who is indeed one of the high-quality members of the council, by speaking regardless of which quota selected members of the Programme Council were honorably, well, professionally carrying out their obligation to them by law. These 14 members reportedly meet not only the formal but also the professional criteria. Public officials, workers and some of them are those who understand the media. Unfortunately, many on Croatian television do not understand. However, in order not to get the wrong impression, excellent journalists, excellent editors, work on Croatian television. Croatian broadcasting is absolutely certain to have the highest quality people. What's the problem? The problem is in a man who needs to make the structure of Croatia's broadcasting and organisational and programming structure. It's not there, it's a complete failure. And for that failure is the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95022	We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. The Croatian Democratic Community club and respected representative Suncana Glavak. Here you go, fellow Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95023	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will continue where my colleague Vuksic may have stopped that the Croatian Parliament is guilty, colleague Vuksic and because the 2013 report on the work of Croatian Radio Television has not been discussed yet. Yes, it is the Croatian Parliament's fault and we simply have no other way to talk about the work of Croatian Radio or the state of the HRT, but at exactly like this today. If a list of candidates were to be determined, it would normally go unnoticed or without discussion if it was to be tried according to previous experiences in the work of the Croatian Parliament. However, the situation is much more serious, it is about four members of the programme council who have expired their mandate and the two-year experience that perhaps in one way or another we are a little more monitoring the structural work of Croatian broadcasting, so the parameter is for the fact that the amendments and additions of the Law on Croatian Television have actually shown all their shortcomings and shortcomings. The role of the programme council in amending and supplementing the law is reduced to what we can put under common denominator only to a formal role or to an advisory role which is not good at all. We also warned about this when adopting amendments to the Law on HRT. In addition to the basic role played by the Programme Council of Croatian Radio Television, which is to control the implementation of the contract between the Croatian HRT and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, where, in fact, the public interest and all areas of public interest are defined, the programme council and the members of the programme council have sought to fully implement their role in all of them available legal powers. However, there were not many echoes at least if it was tried according to their reports and according to what the programme council publishes transparently so that the public would actually have insight into his work. Among other programmes, the Council referred to the implementation of the contract between the Government and the Croatian Government of the so-called so-called ‘HRT’. new media that they think aren't so new anymore, but they're not given enough attention. That information software content, which is mostly the most affected by politics, is probably the most informational content policy and has, however, the information content does not make up a full HRT programme. So IMS should have become something that would have been representative on Croatian radio television, but it happened exactly the opposite. They constantly changed programming schemes, replaced editors, and some went to sick leave, some quit, some left on their own, some were forced to do so. So a whole series of events that we have talked about over the past years and they have obviously not been closely related to politics continue to last on Croatian broadcasting. An unclear editorial responsibility, it is something that can be equally concerned when members of the programming council say so especially given the position and responsibility of the editors-in-chief and occasionally unethical and unprofessional behaviour of editors and journalists. This is something that Croatian HRT should really be concerned about because it threatens the achievement of one of Croatia's basic mission objectives, which is to strengthen public confidence in Croatia's low-level broadcasting. The same programme council also questioned the costs of producing, for example, certain parts of the drama and documentary programme, everything else is not available. We in the previous meeting and in the previous meeting of the board members questioned the same availability of spending of funds, heights, salaries or receipts never received an answer to that question. The Council is also not satisfied with what is called an educational programme or what should be an educational programme, educational content is lacking. In the field of science, individual emissions have been abolished, not replaced by new emissions, insufficient implementation of the production of children's and youth programmes as defined by the contract. The late payment to HAVC is being re-absorbed, so Croatian broadcasting slowed down the fulfillment of the national programme to encourage audiovisual creation from 2010 to 2014. The programme council is also not satisfied with the way the Croatian RadioTelevision informs about the trends of ratings and listening to certain programmes. And what's worrying about HRT actually doesn't have two-way communication or public dialogue, they have a service commissioner, but there's no two-way communication with the public. When the programming board asks something of the principal director, of course, he says he'll answer their questions but of course he never does. This is unacceptable because the programme council should actually be in the service of the entire Croatian public and, as already said, Croatian broadcasting is the public enterprise in Croatia that receives the most donations from the budget or from the pockets of taxpayers. And that's why we have every moment to question and the right to know how this huge money is actually spent. The Programme Council warned, among other things, that there has been an extremely poor communication within HRT for a long time between HRT management and creative staff, which is probably the result of a new organisational structure that has not yet been revived despite its two-year efforts. What they have proposed is perhaps the best or something that best outlines the situation, it is the adoption of an annex of the contract in order to correct the observed illogicalities, recording content, setting up content and formal rules on the annual report, quarterly control in meeting the quotas and focusing the annual report on the quality of the service, public services of the HRT. Fellow Members and colleagues, people who will sit in the Programme Council can therefore only continue to question, we do not know whether they will get their answers, but what we should also problem, and what the Council did, is actually a major problem of inethicalness or a problem of inethicalness among individual editors or journalists, especially at the time of the pre-election race that is under way, and I think that the Ethics Commission that operates within the HRT would have to deal with that too. At least we have not been available or we have not seen anywhere that the Ethics Commission of HRT has dealt with such cases as we have repeatedly discussed, discrimination against individual candidates or discrimination against individual political parties. However, HRT should work on its objective position, i.e. objectively reporting to all political parties, ensuring an impartial position, thereby strengthening its credibility. Permanent changes in programming schemes, editorial shifts, layoffs, resignations, and ultimately something that may arise as a problem, which is equally the Programme Council has warned about, and this is a threat to the subscription related to the election promotion because it has opened up a space for possible initiation of an action against HRT for breach of rules on the protection of competition. Since it will be registered as a commercial income, everything that will be paid for the election promotion, and this has also been warned when the President's election law has been amended, i.e. when illogical rules have been adopted, in which way candidates or how election promotion can also be implemented at public service. It was necessary to clarify how this commercial income would be treated. It is now not specifically defined by the Law on HRT, but not by contract and, for example, the President of the Council of Mrs Obulen has warned several times. And at the very end, the measureability of a company's success is always the sale of its product. HRT product is a program. If it's judged by ratings, and now I'm going to look only at central information emissions, then that product is not good and this product is not sold well. The product of the central information emissions of HRT is third in addition to more commercial television and I think it is a measure of current success. Without doubting a whole series of journalists, editors who do great work both on HTV and Croatian Radio, we once again warn of the lack of ethics in monitoring the programme, particularly informative and it would be good not to compromise the credibility of the public service. I hope we can also talk about the report on HRT's work this year because it's really incomprehensible that such a document stands here and waits a year and just descends on our agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95024	Thank you, too, dear colleague. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95025	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Articles 232, 237 and 238. It is, in fact, that as far as I can see, and it seems to me that the agenda item is the debate on the final list of candidates for the selection of four members of the HRT Programme Council. Neither past colleagues, one and the other who spoke after this speaker spoke at all, or said very little, talked about either the Report on the Croatian Programme Council which was not a topic or talked about the work itself on HRT. Namely, we need to establish criteria. Then let them be the same criteria for everything. When there was a debate on the missions of the Croatian Armed Forces in NATO and when I wanted to talk about the work of the Croatian delegation in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, which is what I was not allowed to talk about, and it seemed to me even closer to this topic, the same subject than this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95026	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Representative Blažeković, I cannot judge what your content is when it comes to selecting members of the Programme Council. I can't or want to influence you on how you're going to evaluate it, but it's really about choosing the HRT Programme Council. ... Yes, yes, the Programme Council and whether or not I liked or liked what my colleagues said, whether it was octromized pessimism or octromized optimism, they said what they liked or didn't like about the HRT programme, and the programme was responsible for the Programme Council, at least from the citizens' point of view, or the Croatian viewer or those who participate in the financing of HRT, so I would not deny them the possibility of talking about the HRT Programme Council. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And as for your feeling that you're being cut off, I think it would be good for you to write it, so you're looking for a debate, so we'll see how the debate ends. Thank you very much. No injuries, no injuries in my court. Thank you very much. ... Okay. [[You can't hear it.]] Yeah, yeah. It's all right. We made a deal. Now we're going to the replicas. We have replicas. Dear colleague Boro Grubisic at the presentation of his colleague, Suncana Glavak. First respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95027	Dear colleague Glavak, I'd like to explain. At the very beginning, you said one sentence to the one with which I ended up blaming the Croatian Parliament. Many were surprised at my findings. Well, the Croatian Parliament is to blame not only for the item on the agenda of the 2013 report on HRT, the work of HRT, but for the fact that the Croatian Parliament is appointed by the Director-General. The Croatian Parliament passed a bill unanimously declared by the opposition by the worst law ever. And he is the worst. And the Croatian Parliament is responsible, all of us in the Croatian Parliament, for not being convincing enough to convince most of us to change. Those who have accepted what is bad. What is, HRT shouldn't be the most visible. The BBC isn't the most visible, but it has to be the most respected. She has to be relevant. Her program, I am not worried that several percent weaker Croatian radio television, the ratings of Croatian radio television, are weaker. HRT has in its programme those parts that cannot be the most visible, which, according to its content, are not the most visible of serious music, of some of the shows that are professional shows, it must have. But the information program should be primarily respected and monitored. I don't care if it's the most visible, but it's important to quote, that it can't be talked about bias, that there's a meter on HRT for other televisions, that all journalists yearn to work on HRT, that other TVs be a springboard. However, Croatian broadcasting is not, and we here can change the situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95028	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95029	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Vuksic, when I was talking about metrics, then metrics is a program. But I put aside all the other segments of the production program. I only apostrophed the information program, and if you heard, I said it was about credibility. It's on the trail of what you're actually saying. If you are credible then people will follow you, then they will believe in the product you offered them. And then you will agree to believe that with me will not be the most unsightly, but will be seen. Because viewers expect public service to also receive credible and true information in the information program, not that they have to question whether this or that journalist gave them biased or impartial information. As for the other segments, therefore educational, scientific, cultural programme, and you know for yourself that there is a question of fulfilling the contract with the Government of Croatia because some of the shows have simply abolished, have not offered new or have not found their place in the new programming schemes and that we have witnessed that the two-year status since the amendments and addition of the new law you say is guilty, I immediately withdraw my guilt because I have not voted for such a law because we have warned that it will not be good. So we want the situation to be improved, and we don't want it to happen again to anyone that politics wants to edit any kind of program. Absolutely not, but we are responsible in that segment and here I agree with you as well as the Programme Council, which has a ficus role to play to see if these provisions of the contract between the Government and the HRT are met. Lately, it seems to me that there has been a breach or that all the provisions of the law have actually been respected, because some TV centres that are not actually listed in the contract with the government are being opened.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95030	Thank you very much. A new replica, respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95031	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, fellow Glavak, you said that the Programme Council was not satisfied with many things and that they asked for answers from the director of Croatian Radio Television who did not answer them. I will remind you, and we are here in the Croatian Parliament and through the parliamentary committees asking for certain answers from Mr Radman in particular to the abolition of correspondence in Bosnia and Herzegovina and after the census when we learned the number of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the missions that work for that area that are in one unsightly term, we have not received any answers. I remember in the 9th month, the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia held a thematic session that should have been dedicated to the very topic of abolishing correspondence, but also to monitoring the general elections in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In the end, the HRT journalist turned the committee into a late reaction by the Committee president or the Committee to a Cyrillic textbook in the Republic of Serbia with a month late which was not at all a topic on the parliamentary committee. So much for how and how HRT reports. If HRT does not know or does not take care of it and should, it must know that politics towards Croats and the survival of the Croatian people in BiH is a strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95032	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95033	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You are absolutely right, counterpart Babic, but I will remind you that the arguments were when the principal tried to explain why correspondence was abolished that it was the process of restructuring the HRT, that this would result in huge savings. But something exactly the opposite happened. I will now mention here the case of Mr. Lek, our President of the Parliament. It was really embarrassing for me to watch the president report live in a German HRT program where the President of the Parliament himself is keeping a microphone. This example of colleagues and fellow professors showing journalism students as something absolutely inadmissible, it just doesn't work, it's just a shame. And also in the middle of the road he appeared, so maybe he was somewhere in shopping, though, I don't know what was the background of it, Prime Minister Milanovic, where he appeared nicely in the middle of the road, so there was a man in the central Dnevnik who would say something from the road. So it's not professionality and there's no argument that in this way there's been some savings. I think there's been a crash in the quality of the program. It all came down to... People try to do their part of the job, but that's not how it works. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Serious houses don't do that. It doesn't work, BBC, it doesn't do serious houses. What did we turn the HRT program into? So, don't ever let that happen again, Mr. Radman, it's a disgrace to the public service.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95034	I must say I'm moved by your feelings, thank you. I'll appreciate that, thank you very much. I took the handkerchief for the purpose of erasing the tears of both yours and mine. New replica and respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95035	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's a colleague you mentioned and you're always talking about how it's necessary to fill out the Programme Council and how the program is badly damaged on HRT. Well, of course it wouldn't be if there were lists for shot people who were professional and competent, there are lists that would go to hundreds of people by the correspondents, editors, waiting for them to get a solution for firing, that they didn't need any more. Of course, in the party order everything can be done regardless of the quality, regardless of the expertise. Those who are not professional can report from New York, can come from Washington, can hand the President of the Parliament over as a staff and put a microphone in his hands, can do whatever he wants. I can cut off the candidates in the presidential campaign part of their speech and performance, I can do whatever they want. And it's really a question of whether the Program Council is doing its job at all or not. Is it even more necessary? And we also remember the consensus when we asked for it when we passed the previous laws and we chose the programming councils, we made a nice deal, we sat down and everything was fine. It's gone today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95036	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95037	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can see there's nothing wrong with the tears. Comrade Djakic, you're right. I'll just remind you that we're usually laws on HRT, so here are the colleagues who were in the previous committee and parliament's meeting, always making consensus. And that was good because it was in the public interest because it was a public service. But I'll also remind you when the law was different, you'll remember the obstruction of the quota of members of the HRT Council, or the HRT Programme Council, and now it doesn't really matter at all. The HRT Programme Council shall perform its functions under the law. However, such laws do not really have what to question, give opinions and deal with content, yes, some will say we have turned them into a ficus and we have others on a political scene perhaps examples in the Republic of Croatia. And in the end, you remembered again what's going on at the public service, but here we are again talking about the information program, although we could also talk about the sports program, why we don't have quality transfers, what they really are, why there are no good educational shows, cultural shows, shows about Croats outside the country. So it is true that in an inappropriate way, as we have warned ourselves, it has begun to follow not yet at that moment formal candidates in this race for the President of the Republic and in the roughest way were actually constructed images or texts. And here I return to the necessary credibility of professionals who have both HRT and HR.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95038	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is up to the HDSSB club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95039	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Listening to the predecessors in this debate, I asked myself what was actually the role of the HRT Programme Council? And today we are discussing the selection of four members of the Public Television Programme Council. Is this, therefore, the role of the Programme Council, the evaluation of the programme as I was told at the outset? Is this an advisory role, i.e. counselling on the programme and forwarding recommendations, opinions, etc.? Is that actually what you're giving an opinion about the program? Is it questioning how someone said here about the program, the interrogation? If we're watching, and I'm looking very often and carefully at this program of ours, then when I don't like something on small screens, I switch to federal or what some French FTV or federal television or OBN said, and I don't know what. There on Tuesdays you have matches League of Champions, Tuesdays, Croatian TV only on Wednesdays has football meetings, Tuesdays there is no even though the Champions League is playing on Tuesdays and Wednesdays. So, Tuesdays, I book to say about Bosnian Herzegovic TV, where there's a transmission of such encounters. Furthermore, at a time when we had been preparing or going to Vukovar with grief and memory on the day of memory of the fall of Vukovar, Croatia's television monitored it with, as we know with a large sequence and covered with a large series of cameras and transmissions, then it tried in information shows constantly dragging columns and more columns. Although we were all, as the President of the Parliament knows, there was actually one column. But this attempt, on one hand, to destabilize the situation in information shows how many columns, who ran one, who was the other, is some general this general or that chief special, I mean that's amazing. Secondly, at the same time, there is a commendable documentary show, not only at the same time, but also earlier, so Croatia's documentary show in the First World War, which happened to happen just the day before the fall of Vukovar, so the marking of the fall of Vukovar is depicted by the great and famous Kolubar Battle and the genius of the Serbian army in the First World War, which is the fact. But how did it happen to be so interesting? Furthermore, I watched the other day here in Zagreb, I can catch it, in Brod I can't, TV 4 and the guest was Jacob Sedlar to everyone I know and know, who thinks of him, can say whatever he wants, who said on the show that in 1999, in that interview on Karlovac TV, a series, the film series Fourd. And since then, since 1999, when it was shown it has never been shown on Croatian television again, for 15 years, even though Croatian television has invested in this. That's what was said, in 1999, recorded. But that's why we've got that show these days. I don't know if it's called a cat under a helmet, what's his name, which they show all the time. So, from telling our partisan history. And that's Partisan history of Four Reds, too. So, the Program Council, what's it doing? He reviews, gives an opinion, advises someone on the program. What's he actually doing? And the selection of members of the Programme Council, as a very sophisticated one thread in the information program, and I spoke about it earlier, so it seems very sophisticated to me and would not want to disabling anyone by name, and the selection of members of the Programme Council who will continue to drag the thread in which I spoke no matter who will be elected. So very carefully, sophisticated, very carefully everything is done together. I'm not going to say sneaky 'cause maybe it'd be too hard to say. The other day I spoke to a gentleman and I said, we talked about Croatian TV, I was like my colleague Vuksic to say, I did not complain, but in the main and earlier discussions agreed that his main responsibility, he is the editor-in-chief. But he told me, this gentleman I talked to, said no, no, there's no underneath it, so it's literally not under it literally, but there are those who are in September and who are working on Croatian television what they want, money from Croatian payers, fees as it is called, taxes on public service or on television, I don't know what the fee is. So we haven't had time to talk about it much longer, but it seems to me that you could talk about some here day and night. It's not or it's become the HRT Program Council. But from what I've seen, there's also a report on Croatian TV for 2013 and we'll have opportunities, and now I wouldn't spend a lot of time on it. Today here we see that speakers are in the Croatian Parliament, it's not my place to think about it and lamentate it, but here's only on the opposition side we have speakers. It's interesting that we don't have anyone registered on this side, not for the program, not for the Programme Council to discuss it. So, the Programme Council is responsible for saying, even that seems to me to be the words of our president, so it is responsible for the programme, but it is also responsible for the work of editors on Croatian television and editorial policies. And editorial policy has committed sin and sin, and in the most dangerous word, it is, in part, those who are, as one of my friends said under the editor-in-chief and failure. And the gap is a lot, we will talk about them when it comes to the Croatian TV report for 2013. And when we look at the list, when I go back to the scale of things, so what we're discussing, actually a man can have a hard time deciding what and how and how and who to round up, but we're going to talk about it at the club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95040	I'm thinking if it's allowed, but I have to say. The respected representative is not only you, so there is really no report here on the agenda of the work of Croatian Radio Television as you said yourself, nor are the members of the Croatian Radio Television Programme Council present, nor are editors present, nor are the director of Croatian Radio Television. And in defense of them shouldn't stand the political echelon of any party because it's public television. So I am obliged to tell the Croatian public that a unilateral debate is being held as well as possible, but it is a unilateral debate, there are no representatives of HRT here, and fortunately for Croatian viewers it is good that the HT programme is not regulated by the Croatian Parliament or by an individual from the Croatian Parliament, so that the debate is ok, but the editing is not. You've got three lines reported, so we're going to go to the replica now. The Honorable representative of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95041	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When we talk about selecting members of the Programme Council, then of course we also talk about what these members of the Programme Council are doing. That was my intention when I talked about the work of the Programme Council because we all need to know together when we will choose those four people and fill out the Programme Council which are their tasks and the Programme Council, I repeat again, oversees the Law on HRT and implement programming principles. This will also be done by members who will be filled in by the Programme Council. However, my colleague Grubisic, during your debate, here I received two, three e-mails, came from the War Reporters' Assembly and some people from Bjelovar-Bilogian County, so I will now ask the question here before the public, is there any discriminatory way of selecting people who will be able to stay somewhere and not be able to work? If that's the case, it's disturbing. So, not getting into the subject further, I think it's important, I'm going back to why I'm talking about the Programme Council, important because we're going to choose people who are going to work in this Programme Council and question on our behalf what is their duty to get the answers that we, which we have called, are needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95042	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95043	Thank you very much. My colleague Glavak, it seems to me that you or one of our colleagues in replicas have even given a drastic assessment, that it may also be necessary to think about abolishing the Programme Council,... the function of the Programme Council is minorized and reduced to a minimum, looking at what is happening in both the HT programme and what is generally happening on HT. Here, you're saying that we control the Programme Council, the Croatian Parliament, that by means of it we can influence the programme, I don't really see such a strong connection between the management of the Croatian Parliament of the Programme Councils, and the Programme Council with the HT program or the far-sighted, however you like. I don't know anything about e-mails, so I can't even talk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95044	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Representative Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95045	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleague Grubisic, you asked yourself rhetorically what the Programme Council was doing, so you said it was giving an opinion, that it was building a program. I don't think the Program Council is doing anything because it's not given to do anything. Politics edits the HT program, whether it's parliamentary, whether it's another, but politics. HRT unfortunately turned into... central... and it's the worst way when this is 46. ... the Croatian people and the entire public of Croatia and all Croatian people, but they will not succeed, and the first thing we have to do when power changes in a year to mix everything with HT... which has come a very drastic political vulgar insult of the Croatian people through the HRT programme. But they won't be able to drive us crazy, the Croatian people and all the citizens because they're 1,000 years old. They gave Italians, be Italian, be not Croat, be Hungarian, be Hungarian, be money, be Hungarian, be no Croat, be no German, be no Croat, be no Serb, be no Croat, be no Yugoslav, be no Croat, be none and be none, be none, be none, be no Croat. So again the Croats after 1000... we are Croats, we want Croatia. In 300 years, the Scots went crazy, only 300 years went crazy, here's 550... they said, 55% are not Scots, we're British. Yet we are better than many peoples and harder and this television will not drive us crazy for as long as it remains for this year. And then we need to do a job, make television about Croatia's pride, make it part of the opinion, cut the soul, cut the mood, cut everything that's in Croatia, not what's now, pure political propaganda of mentality 1946.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95046	Dear Representative Dujomir Marasovic, I don't know if it's useful to give you a warning, but I warn the public that you said you would move others. Who the hell are you guys gonna mess up? Who are you going to mess with if you represent democratic values? Please respond to the replica, honourable representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95047	My colleague Marasovic, I will not be as hard on you as the President of the Parliament, but in a two-party which is carried out by the foundation of the Croatian state, a modern and new independent, just like that, you throw each other at each other. Yesterday, it was said that only 40% remained at the Social Care Centres of those former HDZ personnel, and when you do, you will, as you yourself said and confirmed, move some others. So, 100% you're in the middle of it. That's how it works. It is a sadness and shame and sorrow of the Croatian state that sometimes in this cleaning, in these... smudge and those who roll, regardless of party ideology or omens. And the fact that HT is very sophisticated in one way... it works and washes the brain in some of Croatian citizens' shows, so it's quite reliable, people don't notice it, but maybe people who look a little deeper, here you have noticed how, how it all works out. The programming council should take care of that, but when the targets get mixed up and there's no one to take care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95048	Thank you very much. We're continuing the club debate. Dear Representative Dragan Montenegrin on behalf of the SDSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95049	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is what the president said, and according to the Rules of Procedure, when a debate is opened on the selection of members of the HRT Programme Council, then a debate is opened on everything else and at least on the selection of members or perhaps on the role of the Programme Council. We do not think it would be bad to even consider in such situations whether to shorten the debate whether or not the debate should even be because of the work of the Programme Council and the members we choose and propose, or whether or not we are choosing, to report ourselves to the competition, we are discussing their work report. At this point, we don't even know who these four candidates are from these 14 proposed candidates, but we hope that they will represent the interests of the Republic of Croatia, that they will work according to the law and the positive legal regulations, according to the Law on HRT, which is to remind me to amend somewhere before the last change at the end of 2010. It was then due to Croatia's entry into the EU, but also to say better then to the Programme Council that the powers of the Programme Council have been transferred to a new body called the Supervisory Board, which has, in its description, business and appointments of the HRT leadership but also to resolve and monitor its overall work. The program you are the management of all who have spoken overseeing the HRT Programme Council continue. Whether this change brought good or bad, I don't know, I can just say from my experience that the HRT Program Council when it had these powers that the Supervisory Board now had to deal with maybe too many things, and the program as a program he was discussing, he was considering, giving recommendations and I think that at that moment the Programme Council which was not satisfied could do something concrete. At this point, the HRT Programme Council may say that the leadership of HRT does not adhere to programme orientation which is one of the basic documents to editors, editors, journalists, etc. However, this is now the last decision by the HRT Supervisory Board. What's the role of public television? I think that's a question to ask. The role of public television is not to compete with other televisions. The Croatian state did not set up HRT to be competent with other private concessionaries. You know what HRT's job is, you know what HRT's role is. In recent changes, as I said in those 2010 amendments, at the end of 2011. The Croatian Parliament, on a proposal from the Ministry of Culture, has taken away part of the marketing space from which HRT earns profits or profits. It is clear that HRT has a basic income from subscription or tax and these are not small funds. And these funds, but also the law, clearly define and distance HRT from other private concessionaires who, by the way, are said to be, I assume that most or a good part of them are working in a loss but for someone else's interest. But HRT needs to work for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the program that HRT needs to work on is to educate citizens, to provide them with enough information, not to be pollomished or measured with other TV programs. And the measurement should have other concessionaries based on the quality of state television. The state television must be the most professional, the most qualitative, the people working in it editors, the journalists have to act absolutely professionally and even this example when the President of the Parliament was holding a microphone, if that's true, I don't know I didn't see it. But I remember the debate last year about the HRT report when our colleague from the SDSS Club Mr. Professor Pupovac reminded us of the level of speech of journalists, speaker on HRT, so on public television. Yeah, I remember there's that language department, but I wonder where he is and I don't know what those people are doing. I know they're doing their job for sure, but how many of them are being used. When we talk about newsrooms that may be the most important for political developments in the Republic of Croatia, it is the most interesting. However, if nothing has changed, I know that the sports programme's editorial gets most of the resources to work. And when we have some events that are extremely important then it's often said we don't have enough cameras, because we don't have enough people to track it all down. It was necessary to draw attention to the new members of the programme council when they bring programme orientation to be and what we represent is that more work is done on other publications which unfortunately have fewer resources or are less represented in programme orientations. Or their importance and importance is far below what Croatian society requires. Here are also mentioned in previous discussions of some editorial, I do not want to mention them in particular, but I know and remember that there is not enough content as it used to be in a children's program we remember some film achievements and shows from, say, books that children have at school like a train in the snow, etc.. We can also remember the great series, the home series that are gone. Why? Well, because there's something that says that HRT under the law has to separate some of the funds for external production. Which is absolutely legitimate. But that part of the funds is mostly used and not only by funds but even the resources of HRT cameras and other means to co-produce some films together or in co-production, make some series that you'll say are good, that they're great, but I wonder where copyright goes. Let's just say I'll say one series, Croatian kings. But there's a lot of them, there's a couple of them every year. I think that maybe that part should be reduced and the law better arranged so that HRT itself with the people it has, which are the most professional, I would say or one of the most professional ones that we have in the Republic of Croatia that has educated our education system. And last night, there was just a controversy about colleges and universities as young people leave, and here's a chance to say that there's space and there's state resources where citizens construct that system so that you can stay here and shoot, write scripts, make shows, movies that will be shown on HRT, which will be the author's work of HRT. And thank God now we have more channels since we entered the European Union or something before that we have four channels, we have only two more. So there's plenty of space to show. I'll only be in this section when I mention the citizens and I know they're interested in this part of the subscription, because when you don't pay the subscription, then you're very quick to sit down. A lot of citizens are having a hard time living, and I think the government should also consider how together with HRT or HRT leadership, although I know that this is legally justified to resolve this issue because sometimes compensation from a law enforcement office is much greater than it is due to a subscription. I also mentioned Orfej in previous discussions, after which I received information from the head director that HRT had gone out and sold stakes in his company, unfortunately. It should have had one good purpose to precisely act, or copyright that HRT has to reproduce and place on the market, and from that HRT has income, however, unfortunately there is probably none of it at this time. And I will say what still applies to the National Minorities Club, but not only to the National Minorities Club, but I would say to the obligations of both the Croatian Government and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in fact. Unfortunately, all these years on HRT there has been no special editorial for the national minority programme. In all these years, there have been excuses that there are no means, that it is impossible to do so, that the law does not allow it. However, I will remind you that the Republic of Croatia has signed it seems to me as my colleague Babic knows how to say 6 interstate contracts. Interstate contracts became part of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia when they signed and ratified, and those under their legal power are stronger than domestic laws. It is therefore an obligation not only of the Government, such as the Government and took over, but of the HRT to respect these interstate agreements and to begin to make assumptions for the formation of a redaction for national minority programmes. As I said, we have 4 channels, we have plenty of space to solve this issue and what is most important all these years so far is the roof body of national minorities, the Alliance of National Minorities has been warning and giving negative evaluations of the work or programme of Croatian Radio Television for years. Among other things, according to these agreements, the Croatian people, i.e. the Croatian national minority in these countries, have already achieved and has programmes in Croatian in these countries. Unfortunately, when the Rules of Procedure are not different, when the Rules of Procedure are not limited to selecting four members, then we get a broad debate that unfortunately goes the wrong way sometimes. I'm sorry that our other colleagues didn't apply for a hearing, but what we're going to do, the Rules of Procedure gives us such rights. So here I had to say these few words, maybe it would have been better if we had just stayed as the theme says the selection of members of the HRT Programme Council. I'm just glad, and that's what I was afraid of, so that we don't open up a discussion about the candidates who applied for the contest, and that's the only thing I'm glad about this agenda point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95050	Thank you, too. Let's go to the replicas. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95051	Dear colleague of the Montenegrins, at the very beginning you said that we previous speakers went wide. You've caught the fastest actually, at least you've talked about the Programme Council, you've talked about other segments that don't bother me because you've talked about things that need to be talked about about HRT. I'd like to take a look around. I mean, there's never been any more interference than at HDZ time, that's when it came down. At the time of Mr. Sanader, the most important person on HRT was Mr. Cat who had no function. So there were always blacklists, and today there are blacklists, and then there were blacklists, only depending on which group is ruling on HRT, but even unofficial policies. I think official policies are rare when rather than individual powerful people who abuse their positions. You were talking about outside production. The HRT is now being brought by people who care only about external production. It is very questionable when every director who comes to HRT first starts with a technique, says the technique needs to be changed, and the technique is always in desperate condition on HRT. Why the technique? My God, the program starts, so it's just that one light bulb in the studio if it's a great program will be a good program. Why because of the technique, ask yourself why because of the technique when buying, which is then obtained. Marketing. You mentioned marketing. BBC doesn't have marketing, many houses or don't have a marketing time or don't have any marketing at all. We also have to give the commercials a chance to live. HRT has enough resources from the tax itself to have a great program. So he didn't shrink. If it was a better program, it could be more priced. HRT has dumped prices, destroys prices by commercial television. For what? You should bring some of the state's organs here to clean up a little bit. And four programs. Unfortunately, HRT didn't use four programs. The fourth information programme should be the most visible programme of all televisions and commercial televisions. Unfortunately, he's hardly known.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95052	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95053	My colleague Vuksic, I also said in my debate, unfortunately when the Rules of Procedure is not arranged differently then it happens that these issues are being discussed for an hour or two, and my opinion is that this should be resolved differently, and in the context of the debate on the report of the Programme Council and HRT's work, then we need to open all these topics. The second thing, I said the law should better regulate certain areas of HRT. I think that then, and all that you've been saying, you wouldn't be asking questions but you'd know what any new director or new HRT leadership can or must do. The most important program is, I agree with you, but for some he is actually at the end of the agenda. And what you were saying about cleaning, you know when you pay something, I... all the citizens when they pay something, and when they see that the state authorities or the state or we play with it, they seem even more angry and even more unhappy in the situation that we're in because they think there's one we have to, they make us have to pay the subscription, and they do what they want, bring whoever they want and hire whoever they want. It's not always like that. It's not always like that. I would like, as I said, to make the law of some areas extremely precise and then there will be no more debates like this. When it's gonna be, we don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95054	Dear Representative Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95055	Your Honor, Mr. President. A fellow Montenegrin, you said you knew what HRT's job was, you know what the role of HRT is. Well, I'm afraid you don't know. I believe, or know, but I don't know, and someone else does. I don't think HRT is right. Why isn't it good? It's no good professional, lecturing zero. All the leaders should send them to the university to learn Croatian. If someone wants to interpret some historical reminisce, it's called the Jakovina Company, for example. and eternally the same to interpret the company Jakovina from its point of view of Croatian history and Croatian reality. Well, I guess there's someone and the other one. Word of the place I used, what's the demagogy? The place is a beautiful Croatian word, it needs a broom, it needs a new broom. It's not a killing, it's not a communist-time cleanup. It's to move where the dust gathers, something needs to be moved. That's what we use every day. I'm staying, Mr. President, in that term, to move what's accumulated in HRT. And what it is, it is that it has been transformed into a hard ideological television of communist implementation. HDZ wasn't the best Cat, I don't know who he worked for, everything he did was against HDZ, certainly not for HDZ, Vuksic. But HDZ was on a good trip with television and led it practically to professionalism. But this set made one retrograde process, an inadmissible retrograde process, and made ideological political television. They are not aware of what they have done, it cannot survive historically and should move on television those things that are wrong and create a hard, professional television that will satisfy the interests of those citizens who pay it, which will be part of Croatian society. HRT is not part of Croatian society today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95056	Replicate response, respected representative Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95057	The CROAT's tasks are prescribed by the Law on HRT and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, so those who want to know what it says can read what it says there and they will see what HRT's job is. As for bringing people into the show, probably editors and journalists themselves when they do, they work with the knowledge that they bring people with absolute integrity. As I know... He's a college professor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think if I were to think about him on some subjects, or who I was going to call, he'd probably fall down on me one of the people who had something to say on that subject. When you said about that, that HDZ made, the cat did. You are right, enough time was enough for the HDZ to democratisation the situation on HRT against all political parties in Croatia. But I'll tell you one thing from experience. Let people go, if you think there's too many cleaners out there, let people try to fight their professionalism for the places they need to be if they're working on public television. We're not gonna make any more contributions or say no destabilising if we do it from here. And at a time when they reach a certain level, that really there professionalism is not respected and not respected, they will know very, very clearly how to articulate in public. I remember when the press put a band-aid across my mouth, I was there. After that, they need support here. Not before that, so not before that. Watch what's going on on HRT. I'm not sure it's that far, but if it is, they'll know how to show it to us in public.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95058	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the House, Nenad Stazic. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95059	Comrade Montenegrin, you say you hope these new members of the Council will work under the Law on HRT and by positive regulations. I hope so, but I don't advise them. Because if they do so, then Dujomir Marasovic and his HDZ will move them, not just them. They're gonna get rid of all the reporters they don't like, not just them. It will move as Dujomir Marasovic announces all editors on HRT. Not just them. He'll move Jacobine's company because he doesn't like it either, he doesn't like it, he doesn't like it. He doesn't like it. And you see Dujomir Marasovic is not anyone. This is the HDZ representative in the Croatian Parliament and his threats should be taken seriously. It wasn't said somewhere on the street, it wasn't said with coffee. The threat was made here in the Croatian Parliament. And I invite all journalists not only from HRT, but from other media to analyze this threat. The HDZ has been unusually threatening lately. He's threatening chemical castration as if we're in the Middle Ages, and now he's threatening to eliminate himself by removing all the insecure elements. For Dujomir Marasovic, it is a kind expression to move. It's about as much as human migration, so we're not going to say banishment, we're going to humanely relocate them. It is Dujomir Marasovic and it is HDZ. You were talking about HRT's role as a public service. We were supposed to talk here about whether HRT is a public service or has more and more commercial content, but not at this point in the agenda, but when they are representatives of the Programme Council that they can answer our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95060	I'm sorry, there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure before. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95061	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This Regulation shall enter You should have warned Mr. Stazic. He replicated Dujomir Marasovic, not Mr. Montenegro. The other thing, if I'm not mistaken, Jozo Kapovic has only been removed because of one report and here from the Parliament, and I would not talk about other difficult words from my colleague Stazic. But I simply quote Article 235(1): "A representative who wishes to respond to the statement of the President gives his word as soon as he has finished whose representative wishes to answer." Therefore, counterpart Stazic replicated his counterpart, Montenegro, and was unable to replicate what Dujomir Marasovic said. If he doesn't like it, he can ask for a break on behalf of the club, so he can talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95062	Dear fellow Shuker, you yourself have fallen into the trap you object to. Jozo Kapovic was not mentioned in any replica, not in any debate, and has nothing to do with the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Jozo Kapovic. And a colleague's response to Stazic or the replica of Stazic was sent to a colleague of Montenegro, because they both talked about the subject of the Programme Council and its work. And what was involved in that was the concept of a broom not a fellow Stazic invented it, nor did he mention it. The first broom was mentioned by counterpart Dujomir Marasovic and another replica of the first replica's relativisation attempt failed. But I didn't add anything to that. This is what the Croatian public hears, assesses and assesses and is only right. But there's no injury... Yes, the victim. [[You can't hear it.]] Yes, Jozo Kapovic is a victim but should not be the victim of the Rules of Procedure or the President of the Parliament, but you must consider that when you talk, that action and reaction in the Assembly is valid as a parliamentary rule. And that's why there's a replica and a reply to the replica, and we're not gonna cut our tongues if someone comes out and I never do it outside of it, and neither are you. Well, thank you very much. Dear Representative Dragan Montenegrin, responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95063	Well, Mr. Stazic was mine and so was yours but in another way it was a suggestion not to put pressure on HRT itself, that, from some experience, I was out of what way it should be when the state cannot change within the HRT itself. So, if there's really a lot of difficulty in working. But also, I will absolutely understand you when you were talking about di, which, when it comes to discussing this subject, I took it as an invitation to get everyone well prepared when there's a report on the work of the HRT Program Council when they're right here in front of us people who do these things, who conduct the law, and then to discuss all the topics or remarks that we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95064	Thank you very much. A new replica, the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95065	I was encouraged by your findings that the Croatian Law on HRT changed on the eve of EU accession, among other things, to show that we have a certain improvement in treatment for certain groups in society, including members of national minorities. I'll just say that it's one general finding that many things in our legislation have been adapted to that moment in such a way, and de facto the situation remains the same. Facts are that, HRT reports say that at an annual level of 164 thousand hours of minority programme for only 100 hours, only 100 hours are separated for minority issues, with a percentage of 1.08% of the representation of minority topics on the HRT programme. The whole problem remains financed at an annual level of 2.5 million kuna, which is of course insufficient money. There is still nothing of the government's commitment to the government and these and previous governments that minorities will receive minority redistributions. To remind, however, in the countries of our environment, national minorities have their own special editorials and have their own programs, they have their own information programs in their native minority language. And that's one likely level that we're going to find difficult in some foreseeable time. And that's exactly why we're thinking, and we're thinking in a national minority club that in the Programme Council of these four candidates one should be a member of the national minorities. Just because he specifically focuses on solving these kinds of problems. As far as the execution is concerned, it's just a relationship. We talked about it, on the 200 kn pensioner's debt for the outstanding three obligations per month according to HRT the commission costs him 900 and some kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95066	Replicate response, respected representative Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95067	So in the debate, I was talking about obligations not only of HRT, but of states concerning interstate contracts. Yeah, programs that are realized through, say, TV 2 shows, it's a Prism and Maninian mosaic that, among other things, the Prism is still a temporary character but some 17 years. But what's interesting, which perhaps my colleagues don't know, and here I am going to answer your replica like this, in the HRT reports on programmes for or on national minorities most often, when, for example, certain national minorities participate in some let's say events that were followed through the media, and this is not about meeting national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. Let's say quite often Serbs and Roma are also characterized through information programmes to say an incident occurred and then put it in or count how we realized the programme for national minorities, the issue of bilingualism in Vukovar, the exorcision or the inability to enter Roma schools. So this puts all HRTs in reports that it has realised as a national minority programme. Here are some things that have to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95068	Thank you very much. One more line, well, or do you want to say something right now? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95069	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, since the topic of political repression is open here against political insolents and given the events of a few days ago when there are 4 people, 4 people are arrested for taking their political stand on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95070	First, let's finish the replicas, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95071	No, I think you need to take a break right away.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95072	No, we're not finishing the replicas first. That's how it was, and it's how it's gonna stay. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95073	Thank you very much. A fellow Montenegrin and you spread like everyone else. Of course we can't discuss this subject that's written here without mentioning again the program and everything that goes around the program. You mentioned that the selection of the Programme Council and so on. Smuggling, although the broom can serve a lot, not just for the tumbling, has it and the handle, etc. But so far it has happened, and they know it well from the left and those from the right that they have voted in agreement and voted through the agreement not to the public but to the half-secret and members of the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board and even the judges of the Constitutional Court. That was agreed and discussed here, so we all know that. Why hide from Croatian citizens? So, that's the kind of thing that's been done on a date, right? So, I don't want to talk about that broom anymore and that, that's already a little bit degutant. What asked me to give you a replica, which is either a fee or a subscription as it is said. I tried several times here to set a concrete example where, for example, two old people, retired people, yes, who have 1,500 kuna each pension pay 80 kuna subscription, which is totally legal according to the HRT Act. And God forbid one dies, the other with 1,500 kunas. Second, regardless of grandparents, they still have to pay 80 kuna, which is much more and much harder to pay than 1500 or half income. So here I am on that occasion, I think it should be and I support being flexible in this gathering of a TV fee or a TV subscription. That's my support, and here's your proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95074	Replicate response, respected representative Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95075	And what do you do when the debate goes the other way, and you have a chance to discuss it? And you have to get involved in it. As for the election of members, you have now mentioned even the Constitutional Court and the state is founded, the state is the founder of the Croatian public institution, not only... but also the Constitutional Court, etc. The state needs to take care of them and make a choice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We know what the rules are, the candidates answered the contest, the public call, and we choose them here in the Parliament, these are the rules. Also for this problem you mentioned, as counterpart Horvat mentioned the problem of subscription, but this is a good topic for discussion in the work of the Programme Council and the Law on HRT in general. So let's when it's on the agenda, through our discussions, encourage this issue or any changes to the Law on HRT or how to charge the obligations of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to unpaid invoices for HRT's tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95076	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of persons reported for discussion, the list of persons reported for replication, and the replies to the replica. That concludes the debate. We'll vote when the voting conditions are met. List of candidates for the election of four members of the HRT Programme Council. The list is proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The debate on the proposal for a list is closed. Before we approach the vote, I will inform you about how to vote and determine the results of the vote. Article 25(8) of the Law on HRT provides that the Croatian Parliament shall vote individually on all proposals that meet the conditions for selection. The election decision was made by a majority of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament i.e. Most of the 76 at least MPs who vote in favour. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament determines the rule of conduct of a secret vote in case the number of candidates proposed is higher than the number to be elected. This is in accordance with Article 260 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European In the case of a secret vote, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of Article 260 of Part 267 shall apply. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. A secret vote is held on ballots, ballots are the same size, colors and shapes and are certified by the Assembly's seal. The candidate's name list lists them in alphabetical order. The ballots are being prepared by the Secretary of Parliament. The president shall also be assisted by a number of representatives of the Croatian Parliament in secret voting with the secretary of the plenary session. MPs who help the president conduct a secret vote hand over to voters. The handover of ballots shall be recorded on the list of MPs by rounding up the regular number in front of the name of the MP who has been handed over to him by the representative. The number of ballot boxes and places to be set shall be determined by the Secretary of Parliament. The vote in each ballot box is attended by one of the representatives elected to assist the president. In the event of a re-vote, the session shall be suspended to prepare new ballots. The vote is held again by the same procedure as the first vote. Only one ballot can be voted on in person, and only for the candidates listed in the ballot. A voter who votes by rounding up a regular number in front of the candidate's name, which has a regular number in front of the name of a larger number of candidates than the number to be elected, is considered to be invalid. After all present deputies handed over ballots and after the chairman announced that the vote had been completed, the vote was moved to determine the results of the vote in the session hall. The results of the vote shall be determined by the chairman in the presence of MPs who have helped him vote on the basic cast ballots. The chairman shall publish the result of the election and the appointment at the same session at which the vote was held. The chairman shall announce how many MPs have received ballots, how many MPs have voted in total, how many invalid ballots there have been, and how many MPs have voted in favour of the election or nomination of an individual candidate. The president then declares the candidates elected and appointed. I propose that the MPs who will assist me in the vote be respected colleague Marija Lugaric, respected colleague Martina Banic, respected colleague Sonja König and respected colleague Zlatko Tušak. Do you agree with that? I find you agree. Thank you very much. I'm setting a 30-minute recess so we can conduct the voting procedure. Thank you very much. It's 10:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95079	Now that we're on all these breaks, let's go on doing the job the citizens are paying us for. - (a) Proposal for a decision authorising a member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures (b) The proposal for a decision appointing a Member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 8. Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. You've received the motion for an act. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? There's no need. I'm opening a debate. And I'm closing the argument, because no one answered for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95080	Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. And a proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. The debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 93 votes in favour, 24 abstentions and 1 vote against a decision on the resolution of a member of the State Commission for the control of procurement procedures in the text, as proposed by the Proposer. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. Please vote on the motion for a decision. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 87 votes in favour, 26 abstentions and 1 vote against a decision to appoint a member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95081	So we move on to the next item of the agenda. This is - a) The proposal for a decision on the discharge of members of the National Council for Education and Education (b) The proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the National Council for Education and Education is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day Law on education and education in primary and secondary schools. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? There's no need. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? There's no board, so I'm opening up a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the respected vice president of the House of Zeljko Reiner reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95082	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At first, let me say, of course, the HDZ club will not object either to the resolution or to the appointment of the proposed candidate. Why is it necessary to say a few words about the subject? It is necessary to say because the proposed candidate is certainly a scientist dealing with the relevant subject and it is therefore certain that it meets the conditions to be elected to the National Council for Education and Education. I've asked the committee a question that I didn't get an answer to, and that's how and by what criteria he's just chosen from the proposed ones it seems to me to be one or seven candidates who have made their offers that are all qualified for it. I didn't actually get a clear answer by which criteria this particular candidate was chosen. But I repeat, he is a fully qualified scientist who deals with politics, education and education, who deals with labour market regulation and compliance with the education system and, of course, will be able to meet those conditions that a member of the National Council for Education and Education must meet. The problem, however, is precisely that the National Council for Education and Education is working. What is his real role, what is the real impact of this National Council on everything that has been going on in the system of education and education for the past three years? When you try to analyze it then you can see that unfortunately the National Council has failed in any way in any way to influence the processes that take place in education and education in Croatia. They stayed completely inconspicuous. In addition to some members working together to develop a Strategy for Education, Science and Technology, which was voted upon by such a catastrophic budget as was voted three days ago, in fact completely offended and clear days of messages to the Croatian public, especially to the academic public, but also to the general public, that in fact this government and this ruling majority did not care at all about education or science in Croatia, so other than that some members of the National Council for Education and Education participated in the creation of this strategy, unfortunately, the National Council did not take part in anything important, nor decided at all. And it has its own competences set out in a law where it is said that the National Council for Education and Education should propose measures, activities, development strategy and promotions of pre-school, primary and secondary education and education, that care should be taken to develop national curricula, that it should propose and encourage the participation of other stakeholders, special bodies of the state administration and bodies of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government in the system of pre-school, primary and secondary education and education and coordinate their work. In order to consider and give its opinion on other issues relevant for the development of pre-school, primary and secondary education and education systems in the Republic of Croatia, etc., etc. Why do I think it's important to talk about it because unfortunately there are several national councils that have a very clear law of certain competences, roles, and unfortunately they're marginalized. I do not think it is the fault of the members of these national councils but it is the fault of the ministries that are responsible for it, and of the entire government and all those who should actually be used by knowledge, skills, experience, members of these councils to develop a particular sector in the best possible way. Another such council is the National Health Council, which is reduced to the function of officials at the Ministry of Health and that of the clerks, this job could be done by a mid-professional official, in fact, because it simply did not allow the National Council to do all that the law determines. I hope and would be very pleased to have the choice of candidates who have been proposed, but also by enabling other members of the National Council for Education and Education to change this very bad trend in their way of functioning and to really try to use the potential these scientists, which these experts who are members of these councils have to create better documents to create a better environment in areas of national council authority. Here, with this desire that this National Council for Education and Education should finally begin to play that role that should be played in the development of Croatian education and education, I want all the best new members of the council that I am convinced you will choose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95083	Thank you. We have four replicas. First Reverend Igor Coleman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95084	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Reiner, since we're discussing impressions, then I'd say my impression in one part of this replica. Namely, I was at the same committee session that my colleague Reiner spoke about at the beginning of his presentation, and I heard that answer as to why this candidate was elected to the others, and unlike my fellow Reiner, this response seemed more than satisfactory. So it's a scientist, and it's agreed that the other candidates were also high-quality candidates, but in this case, it's about a scientist who is intensely and to an uncomparably greater extent than the other candidates dealing with exactly the education policies, or those policies that are in place here. So to me as a representative who sat in the same place, that answer seemed more than satisfying. And that's why I needed to replicate so we wouldn't just leave this one-sided impression here in the air.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95085	Thank you. The replica corresponds to the esteemed Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95086	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Coleman, you know that I wasn't even on the board actually happy, I expected one concrete answer. So, a concrete answer that would say what are the real advantages of that candidate. Again, not even entering the political affinities of this candidate or other candidates, not entering the world-wide orientations of neither this candidate nor the other candidate. But I expected to get a concrete answer for what he's better at, because that's what this is about, from the other candidates. That's the answer you remember I didn't get, I got one of the easy sentences that you've repeated here. But the real answer I didn't get. I say again I think that such a candidate is absolutely qualified and I don't question it at all, but I would like to, as in many other things where there is an excuse to support that justification with arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95087	The replica also brings up the respected Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95088	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Coleman responded in part, but here I would also refer to everything that has been said on the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, but apparently my colleagues, Jokic, are threatening to be distracted in case HDZ comes to power, it's on the trail of everything we've heard today in this assembly. So it is also clearly said on the board that colleague Jokic is a man who in Croatia is one of the few professional, scientific staff involved in education policies and has made as such an immeasurable contribution to the development of the National Strategy for the Development of Education, Science and Technology, particularly in the field of pre-tertial education, which is extremely important for improving the quality of education systems in the Republic of Croatia. As for the relationship to the strategy, let's demystify 77 amendments to his fellow Reiner, which he played in this Assembly, while asking for 43 million kunas to be removed from the item of the president of the Republic of Croatia to which 41 million were secured. So he couldn't even sum up his amendments. And how much support his club has given these amendments is proof that it hasn't received a majority in its own amendment club that he presented in the playbook in this Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95089	The replica matches the esteemed Zeljko Reiner. No or yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95090	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Jovanovic, first of all, you do not have to "define" your colleague Jokic because, as you have heard well, I have said that I absolutely believe he is qualified. So if we're talking about the game, what you're doing right now is a play. However, it seems to you that the play when I tried to present a complete ignoring of the Strategy of Education, Education, Science and Technology that was brought here with a huge pomp and in which you and the other members of your party and coalition swore to conduct it. I said then that it was a farce and that I would first get up here and apologize if you remember, who doesn't remember can look at my phonogram, apologize if science and education in this budget that even a little more money and thus indicate that it really wants to start, at least start implementing that strategy. You didn't do it, and of course you disabling both the strategy and the people who did it and made it actually funny all together. So, with what right can you say that? And the story of how much money there is in the president's office, you know very well that the money that's listed under one sentence is not all the money that this office finances, that it exists under a number of other items that are spent on the functioning of that office. Therefore, do not deceive the Croatian public again as others who have tried it through the media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95091	Third replica and distinguished Damir Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95092	Thank you, Vice President. My fellow Reiner, you've been trying to impose thesis for three years that this government doesn't care about education. And you persistently as your colleague Jovanovic told you in this play of your amendments you tried to show that you were the only protector of Croatian education and you showed us this in those 8 years of your mandate when you were the only one protecting the black bags and salaries of your employees that you were unable to pay off and leading the state. But it would be correct enough when you have already fallen into the strategy to say that the strategy is a document that will be implemented in the following years and not just in the following year and that it is in this budget that is now going to provide 16 million kuna for the implementation of that same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95093	The replica corresponds to the esteemed vice president of the home of Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95094	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, an esteemed colleague, so, of course, when there are no arguments, then you go aggressively, then you go with the charges, etc. I have made it very clear in my amendments why certain funds should be given on certain items. I haven't heard a single counterargument from your party which is why we shouldn't do it, not one single argument. It is true that after the deadlines were put into the strategy, then realizing that you did not want to implement those deadlines in the last version and then adopted as a document without any deadline. Therefore, it can be spent this year, 2020, 2100 years, I guess, because the deadlines are gone because you kicked them out. Probably aware that you will not implement it, but when you move into opposition, you will accuse us who will then be ruling that we are not implementing the strategy that you have fantastically and historically brought. That's obviously the goal of your replica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95095	The last replica of the respected Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95096	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow academicist Reiner, my replica, I hope you won't see my line as aggressive because I'll base it on what you said about how you and your club acted. In fact, when you adopt a budget and now your mouth is full of the Education Strategy, about how the strategy has no intention of being implemented, about how the strategy is now something wonderful and wonderful, and we are naughty on this side of the Assembly, and this government does not want to implement that strategy. But dear fellow, I want to remind you of a few things. You have never pleaded for that strategy, neither you nor your club, nor on the board, nor in this Assembly when we voted on it. After the promoter heard all your arguments, not only yours but there were still a few colleagues from your club who were also involved in the debate and all your remarks were included in the final text of the strategy and then you were not in favour and then it was not a good enough strategy even though all your remarks were respected. And I'm going to remind you who asked for deadlines to be given so that the strategy is too wide, so the strategy is too tight, I think that's exactly what some of you on your side of the assembly did. And now you're trying to convince the Croatian public that you want... to implement the strategy. As my colleague said before and said, 16 million kunas are secured for the implementation of the strategy and it is not a process that lasts for a year, it is a process that lasts for tens of years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95097	The replica matches the Honorable Vice President of the House, Željko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95098	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague Hajdukovic, first we leave from the end. It's not a process that's been going on for decades because the strategy is exactly a certain deadline, so let's not say things that don't stand. On the other hand, let me remind you what we said, as I said, I did not say one word that something in the strategy is wrong or wrong, I said and stands behind that unfortunately such a strategy is a list of beautiful desires which due to lack of money will not come true. And it happens, it really happens, it happens with this budget. That's what I was paying attention to, that's what got more of my colleagues distracted. Not pointing to any significant failures of that strategy, and of course we weren't for it, but we weren't against it either. We were simply very skeptical that she, even in segments, would be implemented and it proved true. So I don't see what this problem is and what it's really about is some kind of disagreement between you and me except for the fact that the strategy that it's adopted isn't actually being implemented. And then we expressed our suspicion that the idea that she didn't really want to have a real time at all. Unfortunately, that's what it shows now. If it wanted to be implemented, some more serious money would be allocated for the implementation of the strategy, which did not happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95099	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95100	Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the National Council for Education and Education. And a proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the National Council for Education and Education. The debate on the proposals for decisions is closed. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the National Council for Education and Education. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 107 for and 9 abstentions, have been decided on the resolution of members of the National Council for Education and Education in the text as proposed by the Proposer. I am voting on the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the National Council for Education and Education. Please vote on the motion for a decision. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 106 votes in favour, 10 abstentions and nothing against a decision on the appointment of a member of the National Council for Education and Education, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95101	Now we will discuss together the next two points of the agenda. These are - Final draft laws amending and supplementing the Law on PPP, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 748 - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Investment and Competitiveness Agency, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 752 Proposer of both laws is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate on both legislative proposals was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Economy. You received the reports at the session. I ask, does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposals? Yeah. Dear Deputy Economy Minister Allen Leveric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95102	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable parliamentary deputies and MPs. I would first consider amending and supplementing the Law on Public-private Partnership. This law implements the planned measure to reduce deficits, by joining agencies, means the basis... are the amendments and additions of this law that are proposed here is to unite the agencies and to reduce the operating costs of those agencies and this is one in a series of amendments and additions to the laws that will follow in the coming months because the Ministry of Economy is in line with the government's decision of 26 September last year to merge the agency and reduce their costs. This law also extends the legal basis for the implementation of projects, harmonizes the definitions of overall life costs with ISO 15686 HRN norms, simplifies the procedures for preparing and obtaining projects by introducing procedures so-called Small value public-private partnership projects. The judicial protection against the Agency's acts shall be in accordance with the law in the general administrative procedure and the statutes of limitations in respect of the infringement provisions with the Criminal Code. The Agency for Public Private Partnership is also attached to the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness, as I said at the outset, to reduce business costs, but will increase overall efficiency in the preparation and implementation of public and private projects in general. You could see that the 2015 draft budget also reduces costs for the Agency in total of 5 million compared to 2014. As for the amendment and addition of the Investment and Competitiveness Agency Act, according to the amendments that are being made here, it is very important to note that the number of members of the Governing Council from 7 to 9 members will increase, we know that there are no costs, there are no costs for members of the Governing Council, there is no impact on the budget. It is important to note that the implementation of the merger, as I said, has reduced expenditure and what is very important here that the Investment and Competitiveness Agency will take over the work and employees of the Public-private Partnership Agency, its equipment and financial resources to carry out the takeover operations, which is ultimately a more rational organisation of more efficient results. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95103	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We have one replica, dear Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy, it's not clear to me now, you have something written in these materials, which we're discussing, and you're giving quite the other information in your reasoning of the law. Thus, the budget of the Public-private Partnership Agency in 2014 is so high, the Investment and Competitiveness Agency is so high, and it says that the total costs will be reduced by an indicative of half a million kuna in the next financial year. You spoke, it says in your document here. This document is the only one who has agents. And you're saying there's something else reduced in the budget. The second thing, according to the Fiscal Responsibility Act, you have, in your assessment of the resources needed, made an assessment and an assessment of the fiscal impact, you have written here the implementation of this law will not require the provision of the necessary funds or additional funds. The fiscal effect can be in plus and minus. You are obliged to write this because of Croatian MPs. I'm just repeating to you read a phonogram of what you just said and read the materials that you delivered to this High House a month ago, and in the meantime we voted the state budget. And so I think that you as a proposer were obliged, given that the material that we've got here has changed in its opening explanation to say that it no longer stands, that and that, rather than that now is a new position that, that and that. But you wrote one thing, and you said the other. So it only speaks of credibility and it only speaks of how much it holds onto this House of Highs and Parliamentarians. So we're discussing one material, and in the Croatian budget adopted a few days ago there's a whole other story.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95105	I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Mr. Linic, Vuksic and Hodzic, the respected representative, Slavko Linic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95106	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We will immediately say that the club will support the amendments to these laws and the proposal that two agencies operating today join into one agency, simply and rationalise the expenditure itself, but on the other hand that in this rationalisation we have a number of experts who could work together on a project to raise the competitiveness of the private sector and investment in the private sector, but also on public-private partnership projects and we see nothing controversial here. But what's important is that this is the third year in which the agencies act more or less in a year, or something less since the good part of the year 2012 was formed, to try to say the effectiveness of the legal proposals themselves, is that I am starting to make people who have worked professionally enough, but it is important whether the legal proposals are so written that we could be satisfied with the effects of these laws. And what is lacking in the reasoning of these laws are effects. Why are these two agencies formed? First of all, to try to solve the problem of investment in the public sector, and when I talk about it, I talk about education, I talk about health care, I talk about social policy and social protection, justice, probably the bodies of the state administration. We simply don't have enough capacity, we don't have enough financial resources, we're very slow, so that was the reason we tried to raise an investment cycle in part of investment and building management, public sector buildings. Why? Because this has had a major impact in the countries of Europe, they have been built faster, they have been on governance, better maintenance of such facilities, and on the other hand, and what is the basic problem, that is, the reduced borrowing of countries and transferred to the private sector. Therefore, the public-private partnership in Europe has had a series of effects. From resolving the issues of finance to the efficiency of the private sector in relation to the public sector. What we can say in Croatia, that however we have access to such legal solutions except that we have about 10 public-private partnerships procedures that, at this point, probably in that part of the projects, design projects, we do not essentially have any projects. Those projects have been launched earlier, not according to these legal proposals. And what good would it be to try to assess what the problem is, really, is that we don't have more efficiency in implementing these laws? Is the problem, though, of the bill itself, too complicated to assume, is it now that we are introducing an institute of small public-private partnerships projects to speed up procedures, is the problem I would say is there not enough partners or is the problem in that part that we do not have enough power in the relevant ministries to turn to these projects? I think the biggest problem, however, is the Agency's relationship and, of course, public-private partnership, and that is why we do not have more efficiency in that part. I would say another problem, and that another problem of managing RH's assets where we don't realize that we have a huge wealth in the property and that we actually have to look for a partner to simply try to work it out, invest whatever we want and prepare whether for the needs of the judiciary, whether for the needs of health care, because it's simply the worst when we always start to build investments. Because if we build objects through a public-private partnership then it's enormous expenditure, then it's a huge amount of borrowing and obviously for Croatian concepts a return of about 15 or 20 years not enough time period, so it's going to be a public private partnership on the spending side over the years with far greater expenditure than we can provide in the state budget where we see that we are constantly cutting in the state budget. And then we can really conclude, we've passed the laws but we haven't turned them into life, and that's simply why we have insufficient investment, we really have insufficient investment, and that's why with a million and a half thousand employees, we've come to millions of 340 with a sign that by the end of the year maybe we'll be down to just one million and 300 employees. Therefore, it is an attempt that the lack of financial resources because we are over 80% of the gross social product have a public debt. So we need a joint partner to step aside funding through such an organization from borrowing the state itself, in order to increase speed and efficiency. We now see that in this sense this mandate will not give effect to the government. But the same is true when we talk about supporting private entrepreneurs and strengthening their competitiveness. I'd say we can find some other reason why we don't have bigger investments, why we don't have more use for simple people in the agency who can be professional enough. Well, that's your answer that we haven't been able to consolidate the economic sector, that we still have too much total debt in that sector, over-indebtedness, that we still have a huge indifference and legal uncertainty of economic operators because unfortunately we can see that neither the Financial Business Act itself that was supposed to raise the efficiency of the bill has functioned. And that moment, regardless of the possibility that we can be with these businesses in stronger investments through these laws and help them simply and we have not succeeded until the end because we have not solved the other problems of the Croatian economy. And when we say that apart from being a good merger, I, above all, see less on savings and more on the fact that we will have experts in one group then I think that one of the solutions must be to re-examine the Government's property management strategy and that the new agency simply comes more seriously towards state property management. Because these values of the Croatian state would be offered more to private investors for their needs and would simply be used more for public services, the public sector that we need to invest in a public private partnership is very important in the management of that property. For the reason that we will then increase the efficiency and competitiveness of the private sector for their investments, but on the other hand, and the participation of the state in a public private partnership. For reasons that if the state's participation is too little, if we go to new facilities then we have to understand no minister will support these projects it is in the next 15 or 20 years or less than 100% more necessary funds than it is in the positions that we are recording today. And that's why, with a higher participation of the state and we have this property, we can significantly, significantly reduce expenditures in the next 15 and 20 and submit, and bring them to the size where it can be appreciated. But of course, 30 and 40% of higher expenditure means that it is necessary to implement reforms in the education, health, social protection sectors, because reforms will reduce the expenditure side and then new investments, new investments can get room to increase. We also need to understand and see what we have been doing in the last 2, 3 years that we have completely stopped maintenance leading to problems in the functioning of individual institutions. In many hospitals we can say a frightening state, in which I would say the most basic things about what the bathrooms look like, bathrooms, kitchens, laundry and everything else is something that we've completely abandoned. Why? Well, because we're having a hard time maintaining the system, the health care system, and these are medications, doctors and their work, and at the same time we've abandoned the facilities. Therefore, the public private partnership does not guarantee that we will change the situation but will be a far more responsible and serious approach in the future of maintenance. Indeed, when we have a partner to manage, be assured that we will have to pay for the maintenance of these facilities, equipment with new equipment, and I would say holding a certain standard that the privateer will certainly not leave because he will not be interested in the state of the budget, he will have to make up for it. Therefore, what laws are acceptable, we see in line with European norms and directives, but what we need to understand is that we have not implemented the necessary reforms, we are not simply supporting these agencies. The competent ministers are not with these agencies and they are afraid because the simple problem will be how to function and finance these joint companies over the next 15 years. What I still want to say is that our biggest problem is obvious when we look at problems in the state budget that public private partnership in public services sectors will still need to be negotiated for over 30 and 40 years and I repeat, with more significant participation from the Croatian state. Only then will we have more power and I would say determination on the side of the ministers, which at this point was insufficient. And let's try to understand that one and the other law is very important that we finally turn the number of employees, from a million to 300 next year, and slowly start returning to figures that will mean our own salary and our own safety to citizens. The club will support these two proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95107	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected colleague Marina Lovric Merzel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95108	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Linic, I absolutely agree with these words. Now I would like to say about the public private partnership project about the agencies themselves, that it is positive out there, to see the results, and as we see it as a rule, we see that at this very moment at the very stage of realisation, the construction of a public private partnership is generally not a single entity except for the preparation of the documentation. But we can also see, on the other hand, whether it's a discrepancy or not, whether it's a good law, whether it's a failure to support the ministries or ministers, whether it's an agency's work problem. I mean the previous CEI agency and one example. When exactly two years ago you bring two projects into today's agency and pay for the main projects of several million kunas, and that agency needs to hold a public tender to choose a partner and this international one, it lasts exactly over two years. The completed project, a completed building permit, spent millions of kuna, takes the agency two years to conduct two rounds of public tender and would not choose any partners. So the question and the work of the agency, whether they have enough support, whether they are sufficiently educated, whether these laws and legal provisions are generally adapted to what is offered today in our country or what can be obtained as fresh capital outside. And I am also pleased that the state has taken over the 21 million kuna commitment in the new budget when we talk about the Varazdin County and the largest public private partnership project that was implemented several years ago, and also for the Koprivnica-Crysing County. I believe and believe that there will be further support in the projects of the public private partnership that are absolutely necessary in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95109	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95110	Maybe a colleague answers because it's a competition, it's a decision-making matter, and I think it's going to be very difficult for everyone in the administration to make decisions nowadays. Very difficult. And in a public private partnership where there are many strangers, where on the one hand you have ministers who fear for their budgets, they're afraid what tomorrow when the amount is 40, 50% higher, will someone be responsible for the decision. I'm going to say that this is one of the biggest reasons that our competitions last enormously long, that we're insecure and that the fear of making a decision is what paralyzes the implementation of these laws. Fear of decision, uncertainty. And let's be honest, and those who do projects are so superficial they're projects that they're unreal and unreal. So unfortunately, I do not expect that the dynamics that are necessary will change significantly, and what laws will give us if they do not give us efficiency in raising investments and in particular do not solve health problems, the welfare that should be addressed, then we need to understand that something has to change, that we are making a easier decision and that decisions can be changed if the projects are being implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95111	Thank you. Another replica, respected Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95112	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Linic, you were actually talking about system failures, which is why this model that is already living in the public, but somewhere and in practice, is not too often, why it has not been intensified, why it has not been bigger and stronger. Of course, all you've said is the lack of system as such, but that model is I would say welcome and in some ways from a part of the political public to a knife. After some of the projects were launched and implemented, we only then passed actually the Law on Public Private Partnership and previous projects were made beyond all that. So I would dare say here that especially the local self-government that she had here, in my opinion today, has a very big chance to organise important and large projects in the sphere of education, health in particular, has not partly entered into all this because we unfortunately have in our self-governments and those people who run these self-governments, who at first did not recognize it, the other one is very complex and it is complex and it is very strictly defined how these projects can be realized. There is very little room for any corruption in essence if the project is made as well as the comotion exactly those who should have reported the projects, because that there were many more I assume that one part would have been both realised or accepted and entered into that model, they simply did not want to because it was far more comfortable to build, to borrow, then to add works and then to maintain it later. And from all that we know very well that individuals are In our policy, they have greatly benefited. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95113	This replica corresponds to the esteemed Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95114	Then I must now be naughty a little bit and try to say that still those who implemented the most public-private partnership projects from the level of local self-government were the county and some municipalities of Varazdin and Varazdin County. But let's face it, what's the basic problem? It's not a public-private partnership that costs more funding. But you automatically install regular maintenance, higher standard, etc. And these are bigger expenditures for local self-government units. That's bigger. And one of the problems with this government was that these increased expenditures that the units couldn't cover were solved by some extraordinary drugs, and I would say the items in the budget. And what to say now after you have a message from the government, so you don't need units of local self-government. They spread out, they have too many employees, they waste irrationally, so we cut their basic incomes, basic incomes that have just been used to finance education, health care and so on. How can we expect a single unit of local self-government to enter a public-private partnership? Because I repeat again, public-private is not more expensive but it is certainly a larger amount of expenditure items in state or local. Why? So because these are now quality facilities, high-quality facilities that function normally, better equipment and everything else. Therefore, our biggest problem is that we need to understand that if we want units of local self-government, we need to work out their basic funding in a good way. And a thorough funding to say what dedicated incomes are. So that's the reason, and neither did we bring the Realty Taxation Act, which is a basic income, and neither did we in the Income Tax Act solve it. And there'll be trouble. It's just not gonna be a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95115	And the third last replica, respected Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95116	Thank you very much. Comrade Linic, you said you would support this bill and that you do not see any problems in joining something, because it will rationalise business. But two years ago when these two agencies were set up, the Investment and Competitiveness Agency and the Public-private Partnership Agency were also no problem. How can two conflicting situations lead to the same conclusion? No problem then, not now. Then they broke their promises, they broke their excuses, they sprayed their reasons, he sprayed optimism when the agencies were founded. The agencies will work it out. There's no new costs said, and now it's being rationalized. And what can be rationalized if there were no additional costs? What can be rationalized? You're saying we need to increase the number of employees. Well, of course, that is the basic problem in the Republic of Croatia economic. But what do agencies have to do with the number of employees? So far, no correlation can link any agency to the number of employees. If we had a correlation of the number of agencies with the number of employees, we would have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. So that's not the problem. I'm afraid the agencies are a problem, not to get rid of them. And this is confirmation that it was wrong. Either it was wrong two years ago or it's wrong now. But if something changes, it's wrong to justify it now. And what gives us confirmation that it was wrong, and it didn't guarantee that it would be better. So how can we so easily support something that is not explained to anything or what is bad or what is better? I miss a lot here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95117	The replica matches Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95118	In my opening statement, and I tried to say that it was the agency that assumed that you could have a public private partnership, meaning the relationship between public funds and private individuals. You must have an agency. Also, private entrepreneurs who are afraid to enter Croatia need help on behalf of the state. So the legal assumptions have been made, and in this material there are little insufficient criticisms about how we manage the property of the Republic of Croatia. There are insufficient criticisms to say very clearly what CERRP is, which is DUDI. Why no more assets are placed in the function of private persons, given to them if needed as support, and also why we no longer use these assets rationally for the needs of health, education, social welfare to simply go in with greater participation. It's bad. And on the other hand, let's be honest with the government's economic policy in economic recovery has not yielded results. I'll just answer about the Financial Business Act. The Financial Business Act was supposed to resolve indivisibility, because the judiciary did not resolve it, it was very slow and it needed administrative regulations of the Financial Business Act, 60 days. So what are we talking about? Croatian railways are the biggest non-payments, health care is not paid. So neither the state itself nor the state bodies and institutions and companies pay. It's a sign, then, that you're stepping up indifference and that the liquidity goes back close to 40 billion and goes by 40 billion. These are the problems we haven't solved. Well, about a situation like that, it's hard to get investment. And so we say, these are the laws that have been provided by the institutions, which can be supported. But that support without any other measures will not give effect. And on the other hand, let's be honest, it's gonna be harder to come to a decision, because These agencies are also being decided through the competent ministries. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95119	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club – the parties of work will speak for the respected Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95120	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In 2008, when Croatia introduced a public-private partnership model, I was against the public-private partnership model and I remain against the public-private partnership model. Then I said and now I repeat the public-private partnership means public money or money public, profit private and nothing else. It is true that investments through a public-private partnership model as investments are not more expensive or more expensive than to go through their own funds or liabilities. But the later the cost is higher than the fact that it was your own investment. Why? A private partner with whom to enter a partnership, municipality, city, county or state plans a profit. How much? What are his parameters? It has to be higher than interest because otherwise, through investment of capital in the financial industry, it will earn the same money through interest. In a public-private partnership, he wants to make more profit than interest. And only those who were sure that they would make more profit than the interest they entered those projects. And all the boredom there is. Today, interest in Croatia is between 5% and 6%. They're all planning a 7.8, 9. If they can do more. And that's why the model is more expensive than direct investment. However, what is our problem? Neither municipalities nor cities nor states have their own money and investments can be triggered by any new borrowing, by increasing public debt that can no longer be increased, it must not. In municipalities, cities and counties, we reduced the investment potential of these changes last week. The country in problems and therefore the public-private partnership model was introduced and today is still interpreted and presented as a very successful model. If so or in order to be sure about this, did the government make a proposal for this law to analyse the projects carried out so far in public-private partnership, their fiscal effects and the quality that we have obtained? Has anyone been doing an analysis of everything that has been going on since 2008 as a model of public partnership? Say, is there such an analysis for the Spaladium Arena in Split? Is there an analysis of the successful Arena Zagreb project? These are the two largest public-private partnerships projects implemented so far in Croatia. What's the result of those two models? And now I don't care who the partners were, there was a state, a local or central partner on the one hand and a private partner on the other. Who lost? Did a private partner lose on one case and another? In the light of the law in the state description, it states that from 2008 to 2012, 3 projects were approved, from 2012 to 2014 in the announcement of 10 and in the public procurement procedure 3. That's what the government wrote in the state's description. I just can't believe the government doesn't have the right information. It's in an economy that obviously doesn't work with anyone else in this government. And two days ago, we received an answer from the Ministry of Finance to the representative question of fellow Bubal from which the following is visible: therefore, these in the economy obviously do not know about all projects JPP operates in Croatia. From 2008 to 2014 the Ministry of Finance writes that 14 contracts have been concluded for 14 PPP projects worth 2.5 billion kuna, of which 63% for education, 25% for sport, 11% for transport infrastructure and 1% for public lighting. So objects in these functions, not activities. Furthermore, from 2011 to 2014, two public-private partnerships contracts have been concluded in the term of office of this Government, i.e. from 2011 to 2013 because no public-private partnership contracts have been concluded in 2014, none. The two projects that took place in this mandate were agreed by the Zagreb Airport, a billion and 400 million kuna and the House for older and powerless than 22 million kuna. In preparation, the finance ministry writes, another 10 projects worth 5.3 billion kuna capital investment. This means that from the establishment of the agency and the introduction of the public-private partnership model, approximately 3.5 projects went annually, and somewhere on average billions to billions and 100 kuna, the annual implementation of the model. The value of all 24 projects, 14 realised and agreed and 10 in preparation is 7 billion and 800 million kuna. So the total value of PPP projects is 7 billion and 800 million kuna. If private partners planned to gain a conservative 7%, if interest is 5 to 6, with 7%, that means that on an annual level they expect a profit of approximately half a billion kuna. The projects come together for 20, 30 years as well as half a billion times, and you'll see what that profit is going to end up in private hands. It has been approved of those ten in preparation four, four are approved and it is the hospital Popovaca, the Square of Justice in Zagreb, Istria and Poreč, the City of Poreč as a joint project of school and in Varazdin school. These four projects are worth 1 billion and 800 million kuna. And now I'm asking in these projects that I've mentioned so far how many new jobs have been opened, which of these projects so far have been implemented in the function of new jobs in schools, homes, public lighting, hospitals? These were not projects for new jobs, it was a dry need to rebuild buildings and buildings that collapsed, which no longer existed conditions for normal functioning and had to be intervened urgently. There was no money, there was a public-private partnership project, there was no new employment. They had an effect at the time of construction, the duration of construction work, technical, technological. Not after that. If the problem with borrowing, or the inability to borrow money, what about state-owned assets? We have adopted a management and availability strategy for state assets, we have passed the Law on governance and availability of state assets, we have passed the Law on Strategic Investment Projects. And everything the government has proposed to increase investment, and this model of public-private partnership, too, has been accepted by the Parliament. No legislative proposal has been rejected by the government before the Croatian Parliament of the Government. Some laws have changed three, four times. And there's no putting state property into operation. Is there any cooperation, connection, vision between DUUDI, so the Office of State Property Management and these masses of investment agencies? Investment incentives, investment development, investment monitoring, public-private partnership. So, for example, is there some serious state-level project to go into a public-private partnership programme where the state invests its properties, existing assets, its properties? Is it possible that of all these state-owned properties that we have and land, and buildings and buildings none are suitable for a national project through a public-private partnership? The square of justice in Zagreb is probably on the Sava project, I don't know. What is the vision, which is the idea, how does the Government put this state property, and the real estate into the role of a public-private partnership in order to avoid new responsibilities and achieve the goal and meet the needs that we have? Not a word. You need to change the law, once, twice, three times, and then it'll go. We had this session on the agenda amending the Law on Strategic Investment Projects because obviously something is wrong, it needs to be changed again. You have no indication there that, given the absence and inability of the central state and public enterprises, please, it is now true, public companies in Croatia do not invest, all public enterprises in the economy ministry's portfolio have failed you, but quite all HEP where you have forced citizens to increase the price 25% with an exception for investment, so everything is... It is now necessary to amend the Law on Strategic Investment Projects and on State Property and no one to speak. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So for example, you're ruining the Immunological Institute, you're announcing its privatisation, so why don't you just, say, apply the model of a public-private partnership to it? You are now engaged in loaning money to Croatia who will lend credit to the Immunological Authority to pay salaries and that they can still do business for several months. It's a strategy of economic development through these laws. And that's the only thing we have a chance to hear. And when I looked at all the projects, and the old ones approved, and the ones the agency wrote as the intention of implementing the projects and that are in the PPP registry, there's not one. Developmental importance or job creation. Finally, the Croatian Parliament adopted a state budget for 2015 with projections 2016 and 2017. Believe it or not in the state budget for 2015 is the item of the Public Private Partnership Agency 3 million, projection for 2016. 3 million, 2017. Three million. And now there's a law whereby this agency connects with another agency. So when the budget was written you didn't know it, you didn't know that you were going to put the agencies together so that this law would come the day before the budget and there's a new item in the budget under a new name? In just a few days apart from the adoption of the state budget, you come with the law on the merger of two agencies and you have left separate items in the budget. If it were two different resistors, you might still understand, but they're both in your vault. What's this about? One's on one floor, the other's on the other, so you couldn't make a deal? You see, Mr. Leveric, that's it. You are looking for support in the Parliament with radical changes of the law, convincing them that they are necessary to encourage investment, and not a single fact, data, analysis and results, but your only argument is the whole time this law changes, it'll be better, then we'll do something easier. That's not an argument, that's an excuse or a reason why so far something hasn't been good. You have failed to provide any too much information on the successes, results and effects of the PPP model on the development of the economy in Croatia, and therefore we will not support the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95121	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. The first came from the respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95122	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Lesar, I have listened carefully to your presentations and almost every item you say I stand and support. But here's why I answered the line is your words. As I quote, we have reduced the investment potential of local self-government recently passed laws. That's one thing, and the other, the state is in trouble as we all see it. But is that right, especially this other one? So here we heard debates before you, and you also talked about the public-private partnership outcomes from 2008 to 2014 starting with Spaladim Arena, Arena Zagreb and a number of other facilities that have been created, but you can see even though the state is in trouble, without any particular problems, they say it is being saved at the merger of agencies, but for example. Our tax administration is changing, therefore by a false tender with a false name complete telephony and spending 10 million and 300 thousand kuna on what is absolutely unnecessary and such a telephone installation that now has no MUP, so the Ministry of the Interior. Unfortunately, after two, three years, someone gets lucky, someone likes to work with certain companies or clusters or whatever you want and gets brand-new phone equipment, and it's under a false name so that some others who could also be competitors in the competition wouldn't recognize it. Here's an example of where the money is really being thrown, and you say they say the state is in trouble, too. We all admit it together. Unfortunately, those who really should worry about it most, it's the tax administration, throwing money away. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95123	The replica matches the esteemed Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95124	Dear counterpart Grubisic, out of all these large or medium or small public-private partnerships projects since 2008, there are two national ones. It is the Airport or the Terminal Airport in Zagreb with a billion and a half and a Square of Justice in Zagreb, a billion and 400. What I am... doubted is whether Zagreb Airport is an EPP model or a privatisation model because the airport is sold and then the investment of a foreign partner was interpreted or implemented as a capitalisation. Equally deploying throughout Croatia and investing what contributes to new jobs can give each interested person this list and together we go to look for how many new jobs this model has brought.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95125	A new replica, respected Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95126	Thank you very much. You showed your colleague Lesar public money, a private profit, that this is a model of the functioning of a public-private partnership. In Croatian case, in Croatian circumstances it is so. I would just add, not only public money but also public risk, public uncertainty, public... and private profit, private security and private guarantee given to him by the public and state. I am not against the public-private partnership in advance, but according to the Croatian model, it is a public-private robbery, not a partnership. We are not yet a mature society for a public-private partnership, we have an inadmissible low level of political hygiene so that we can get into it, we do not worry about Croatia's future and we do not have sufficient level of self-awareness to enter such uncertain projects. When you say if anyone did an analysis, if someone did an actual economic analysis of the effects of a public-private partnership in previous experiences, they would lose some sense. It's a terrible thing to do, which would be indicators, which is why nobody does an analysis except one side. What is the gain of those who took part in it. You mentioned some projects, and we only mention the projects of Zagreb Airport and the Zagreb-Macelj highway. Who was right, and why was he changing public-private partnership contracts at Zagreb Airport? After all the existing contracts. At whose expense and for whose benefit someone has changed it, let's do an analysis, let's make a public debate about it, let's let the ministry bring a draft of what is going on at the Zagreb Airport, at the expense of the state, to the harm of Croatia and to the damage of all Croatians. Students should have in their textbooks an example of the Zagreb Airport case which... the title would have an economic example of mental deformity at the airport, and Zagreb-Macelj could write on the tour economic... sum when entering Zagreb-Macelj highway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95127	The replica matches the esteemed Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95128	Comrade Maric, I am willing to risk losing our minds if we get an analysis of the effects of the public-private partnership, due to future generations. So we would probably get an answer to the question of whether one of those private partners who was in the projects from a few years ago in the meantime went bankrupt, ended up in a pre-fashion deal, failed, whether it even contributed to it or not. In these projects and models that you mentioned as Zagreb-Macelj highway it is... Istria, same. The state entered the best faith and intent and then promised the private partner first to weaken it with VAT and then promised if you won't have as much traffic as we planned, you'll make a difference from the state budget. And the private partner also puts the risk into the model,... the risk of such when the state guarantees planned traffic, planned income. Therefore, this analysis has been extremely useful for all those who will propose legislative solutions in the future and manage this agency now with a new joint, double-up so that we will no longer be in fear of being wrong about the approval of some models or projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95129	The next replica, respected Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95130	Your Honor, Mr. President. I'm more afraid of whether you're going to call me 10, 15 times by inviting people to the lynch against me, but here's why I'm asking if I can address Mr. Lesar's replica, so if I can, then I'd be replicating Mr. Lesar. He said this law is a private-public partnership profit and nothing else, more profit than interest. I will address you personally or as a representative not as the president of the Labour Club because yours have long been fenced from you. My parents won't know from me, but yours have been fenced. So I don't admit that you speak for it, I don't admit it. I admit it, but I don't believe it's convincing. So public-private profit partnership and nothing else, so what? Anyone who invests has to get a profit greater than interest normally because then all investors would give in the bank and not invest. If it were your philosophical theological consideration in Croatia, nothing would be launched and invested. There is a need to separate crime from honesty, and if we're going to do it on a fair basis then we need to invest through a private-public partnership. Of course that capital return is considered in 10 years it must be 10% and nothing more. And we need to invest in everything we can and thus bring capital and domestic 130 billion here to be activated if possible. Nothing should be done in Croatia, no shovel should be moved, no machine should be run, and give money for what, for all. We have now here's the hospital I'll tell you I was in one offer to the hospital Splitska, water, private-public partnership man gives, people give, agencies pay for the cubic display, and you know how much the price of water is. He cut from 100 cc's to 50 cc's, the price of water determines the city it's a clean job but people don't dare, the principals didn't dare to go because they'll accuse them of being thieves because they ended up in Remetinc, so no hospital did that, and they should have.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95131	My colleague Marasovic, I didn't invite anyone to a link against you, I only warned people that they were safe when you were in place. And now the answer to the line, the esteemed Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95132	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95133	The last replica of the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95134	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Lesar. So you mentioned radical changes... to the law or announcements that would be better. I believe that we will agree that either you or I will agree, nor this is about changes, let alone radical ones, and that this change in the law or the law that only speaks of two agencies being joined together that the laws are beautiful to each other will not lead to a shift in what is particularly important what we all talk about. And I think if it had already gone into that, then we had to have this law on the benches before the 2015 budget was passed. Because today and now here are the arguments that are in front of us, and that certainly must be in the budget projection, not just in the 2015 budget and projections for the next two years, what will actually be the budget of that agency, which activities will be because among other things is the organisation of the conference. I think that the organisation of conferences will in no way contribute because the conferences are organised by both ministries and associations, etc. This does not guarantee the shift in the direction you are talking about, and especially the information you mentioned regarding only two public-private partnerships projects in this year which ends none, and the number of employees remains the same. So there is no rationalisation even in the sense that if two agencies were to join together, then fashion would be rationalised in terms of reducing the number of employees, which would also be a small step forward. So neither radical change nor will be better, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95135	The replica matches the esteemed Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95136	Yes, colleagues Kosor this is the fact that we adopt the budget and a week after that changes legislation that significantly affects items in the budget and not only by names but by amounts. And now I'm trying to figure out why the ministry in the budget left both items of the two agencies, and then it goes together. They probably want to put these two items together later in one as a single budget, is that this was talked about earlier then it might be possible to give arguments that after the merger the total budget could be smaller when it were combined and the logic would be smaller. But that only tells you about the relationship between those who propose both laws and the state budget towards us and their understanding of social responsibility in managing public money.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95137	Thank you. We continue to discuss clubs. On behalf of the HNS club, two MPs, respected Nada Turina-Đuric, will speak, followed by Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95138	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party will support the proposal to amend these laws and the Law on Public-private Partnership and on the Investment and Competitiveness Agency. We'd like to say something that makes us think that we should particularly welcome this law in this part of the merger of agencies. It is good to realize after a while that something that is done in two places can be done more efficiently and better in one place. I don't think there's anything special to say. What his colleague warned at the outset, and this is about the planned funds for next year, I assume that the competent ministry will react in the direction of resolving this as soon as possible so as not to get into potential problems. But what's more important here is this part where a public-private partnership, where another mode is offered in the context of a public-private partnership model. A model that gives the opportunity to go to what's called the so-called model. Less projects, small-value projects. This is a simplified model of public-private partnership and the value of these projects is less than 5m euros. Why do we think it's important especially at this point when we look back a few days we're talking about funding units of local self-government about a lot of major changes in this and problems that will arise safely in the part that concerns possible and potential investments of local self-government units. This is right through this model, which has been added, projects of less value in a public-private partnership for energy efficiency projects, i.e. projects of changing public lighting, replacing public lighting, energy-efficient public lighting, I think it is a good opportunity for units of local self-government and in the standard of their citizens, but also efficiency, or saving certain funds, and yet starting very large projects to do something in their area. No one's told me about it yet today, but this one, the introduction of these small-value projects, the possibility of investment in public lighting projects in the field of local self-government units, is estimated to give one new, not too big but still significant and investment momentum at the level of local self-government. There is also a lot said about the public-private partnership model, its current effectiveness, that is, the effectiveness of the agency of the competent ministry to follow it. I think we can all remember the time when this model was presented as a Croatian new deal, I was personally at that meeting when all the mayors and mayors of the major cities were invited at the time the Varazdin County started with this project quite and Koprivnica, started with a project of investment in education through a model of public-private partnership, and then it was an agreement for all of us to go along with the Government to compose a law that would make the story right. However, in the meantime, these projects, some of these projects, are actually made without law. Meanwhile, laws have been passed that say they are one of the best and that the institutional framework is among the best in Europe. It means we have all the legal preconditions to start with these projects. And then there he is, some of his colleagues were saying why we didn't take advantage of it. In fact, a public-private partnership as such is no imperative, it's not something that needs to be done. It means the project proposal, of course it has to meet certain criteria and very, very demanding criteria because I've been lucky or as I would say, maybe even an accident to participate in one of those, and I know what the procedure is to get to the stage to question even competitions to choose a private partner. It's very complex, it's precise and it's over, I won't say it's impossible but it's almost impossible by the law that we have now, it's almost impossible to make a failure, a major failure that could have an effect on a public partner. But, of course, that stage needs to be reached. And the fact is that the proposal of such projects and the design of such projects and the presentation of documents takes a minimum year. So one good part of those who were in charge, who are logically in charge of things, is that they propose such projects, which are the leaders of local and regional self-government, as well as of some major institutions. Seeing the complexity of this whole story and knowing that it might still be possible to pray in a traditional model whether it is from the state, from the competent ministries that are in charge of whether from some other sources of credit is being placed in this way. Just before in the replica, I told Mr. Linic, I had another one, and I found it noticeable when my colleagues responded, until the knife was welcomed by this model that this model does not offer room for manipulation, or very difficult to offer under the current law, I do not say what was possible and sometimes. Under the current law, however, there is almost no room for manipulation. After the traditional model of funding, unfortunately we all know that there are opportunities and additional works and of course counting on it, I don't remember if you know that some object is larger by traditional model, and that it's perfect to that extent that after a month those same builders who built it didn't have to come and fix the roofs, change the gutters, leak the water. Very rarely, these objects that are traditionally designed do not have x additional works. Of course when it's a small investment it's less money, and when big investments are a lot of money and unfortunately it's a certain space and not a small space for manipulation and corruption. A public private partnership doesn't allow that. Is it more expensive, relatively what is more expensive when you know you're building an object in such a way that for 25 or 30 years, depending on which time it is agreed, that you'll get that object back to a public partner, a public user in almost intact form, means almost a new object. So that's relatively what it costs, given what we normally do in the traditional model and do, and that's to build grand objects, to equip them perfectly, and then in 5, 6 or 10 years, these objects, because of non-investment and non-preservation, become September, which then needs to be reinvested in big money. So much for the generally public private partnership that we of course advocate and see as a chance, and not as an imperative that some projects start to work like that, not only do we start doing them, but through these projects we give an additional swing and certain sectors that are now almost on their knees, from construction to all others connected. So we'd do a lot if some of these projects were taken through this model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95139	He'll continue his colleague Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95140	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, the esteemed deputy. So the two of us actually seem to have the key advantages of this merger, the agencies, the increase of efficiency, the reduction of costs, and I have to say to me that it's logical and maybe it should have been before, but at least now it's done, and that we have representatives of the construction and justice sectors that are very often sectors in which investments have problems, there was need for help, and in that sense, this composition of the board of directors of this new single agency is positive. As for the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness, it is to remind the founding in 2012 with the aim of increasing the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and attracting and realising investment projects. Its mission is to enable investors to successfully and quickly implement their business projects in the Republic of Croatia through the promotion of sector specialisation, the creation of competitiveness clusters and the identification of business simplification measures. What should be pointed out is that, in addition to the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness, which is responsible for supporting large economic operators, private investors who employ or over 250 employees and earn an annual income of more than 50m euros, i.e. have more than 43m euros in long-term company assets. There are several other institutions in Croatia that monitor the realisation of investment projects, HAMAG bikro, which is responsible for monitoring projects of medium, small and micro entrepreneurs and CEIs that monitor energy and infrastructure projects. What is also important to emphasise and this is one of the problems investors face is that there is no obligation for investors to address any of these institutions for the realization of the project and therefore there are cases that investors do not apply, for example, for incentives they have the right to or for professional assistance they have the right to receive in one of these agencies. In this case, I'm talking about the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness. What's most important in this whole story about the agency is this. It currently monitors 109 active investment projects totalling 7 billion and 200m euros, which should create 16 856 new jobs. The agency's portfolio also includes 41 projects that require a strategic partner to continue the implementation of the project, and the total value of these projects is 1.7 billion euros, assessing that their realisation should create 686 new jobs. AIK, or Agency for Investments and Competitiveness, helps investors in some way to divide it into 4 phases. One is initial support for investors, so that's when first contact is made and the first analysis is done. The second is detailed support for investors identifying the procedures, requirements and procedures to be followed and in which the Agency then assists and participates. The third level is operational support for investors during the implementation of the project. It should be noted that those projects that go through the agency are much more successful in meeting the requirements and need to obtain permits and respect deadlines than those projects that do not go through the agency. And the last stage is post-investment support, so the agency remains in contact with the investor and is still looking for new opportunities to expand the business and develop investors that have at one point been through the agency's procedures. Of course it's all going on together, it can't be done from today to tomorrow. These are all projects that last for many years and are currently ongoing. Tourism is the first sector in terms of investment, followed by services, production, real estate, infrastructure, pharmaceuticals, and then the last thing I do is repeat a total of 7 billion euros in currently active projects that the agency monitors. 44% of investors are from the Republic of Croatia, with them planning to achieve a little more than 50% of the total value of the projects shown, the other investors are mostly from traditionally Croatia-turned markets such as Germany, Austria, Italy, Israel, the United States, and are working intensively at the moment to attract investors from the Arab peninsula, China, Korea and Russia because they are recognised as business interesting. What I would particularly like to stress at the end is that those projects, which were supported by the Investment and Competitiveness Agency, for example the permits needed for the implementation of the projects on average, were given one-third. It is often said three times shorter, for one third of the time provided by law as time available for obtaining a permit. According to the CNB's preliminary data, foreign investment in the Republic of Croatia was 2 billion and 170m euros in the first half of this year, which is more than four times as much as last year. And these are the results between the other and the work of this agency. And there happened a handsome lapus at one point in an article in this law written by the Agency for Investments and concreteity, instead of competitiveness. Yes, so I believe that this too, and we believe that these changes and further work will make this agency truly and concretely and competitively work to make the Croatian economy and investment both competitive and concrete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95141	Thank you. Before I announce a break, one notice. We have three other clubs on this agenda, and then we would discuss the united points 23rd and 24th in the afternoon. This is the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Household Activity Act and the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the provision of services in tourism. And then again points 27 and 28. Thank you very much. I'm announcing a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95142	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95143	Excuse me. Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, many colleagues and colleagues. So, we can easily say that this Law on Public-private Partnership is certainly one of the most controversial laws that has been passed in the Republic of Croatia because with it, the government is one big division both with the professional public and with those who have applied it. However, I think that when we talk about this law then we should simply warn about certain things that may be a trap, etc., but when we come to this, given that two points of the agenda are united, it is very interesting that the two agencies and this law that were passed in 2012, are pompously announced, but what is the real effect of all this together? When we consider that the airport is one project that has been rolling for a very long time and has a lot around it... as far as this public and private partnership is concerned, however, at these points of the agenda and many of which we are unfortunately discussing are missing what is key, and that is what was the cost of implementing this and what is the effect of this? Because we can't just go over it easily if we've made a decision that we have two agencies and now we've remembered we don't need two, it's going to be one. Why did this happen, but I say, unfortunately we in Croatia do not adhere to those rules that were adopted here ourselves because under the Law on Fiscal Responsibility and in the interpretation of the law, which I also said in my replica to the Deputy Minister, it would simply have to stand, which is the fiscal effect that is being achieved, which will be achieved by these laws. However, when we talk about the Law on Public Private Partnership and, in general, when we talk about public-private partnership then we should see where this law was born, where that model was born economically, so to speak, and then let us not forget that it was created at a time of great crisis in England as one of Margaret Thatcher's projects to revive the English economy, but only because of one thing, so to speak, of the financial industry, however, given the power of England, etc., they managed to vote in Eurostat to account for the Eurosystem's cost of public-private partnership methodology for the budget of units of local self-government and state budget at the time of payment. So, if a public-private partnership lasts 40 years, that cost, it also has in international accounting standards, and also in our Accounting Act, so-called. The notion of time-limiting costs, while at the same time any investment from the state budget was practically a cost at the time when it occurred, as far as deficits were concerned, and that was one of the reasons why the English, since they were interesting to many investors, could have allowed them to make large investments, primarily in the public sector, in such a way to employ their construction industry, and the construction industry is pulling a lot of things behind them and now for such an amount of investment, they would have certainly jumped to a deficit of 13, 14, 15, and perhaps 16%, however, they came up with this and therefore, it is presented as one new product as such being different from the Eurostat methodology and is what it is. And the logical thing is that in Croatia as well, the idea has come up that certain projects from the public sector could be built according to this model. But when you go into a law like this and projects like this, then it's smart, cunning, so if I'm going to say economically, well-homed, ask those who apply and those who have funded such a model, for the simple reason that a man in the contract tries to avoid all the traps that follow it. So, the key thing is to a public-private partnership when you contract it, which is maintenance costs. Because since it's mostly construction buildings, then the logical thing to do in the first 10, 15 years except for some technical petty failures, maintenance costs are minimal and you, if you don't look out for it, if these costs, so to speak, don't have any progressive growth, surely that contract will be unfavourable for you. And a series of other details, right about that maintenance, about the status and real estate after the deadline of a public-private partnership is something that is even more important for whoever enters that project than the project itself because if you make a bad deal, and be sure those who give you the money, they'll try every possible and impossible way... as much as you do and if you're inexperienced in that whole story, if you don't know about all these gaffs that happened to some before you, then it's certain that you'll have what you have. What can happen to a public-private partnership project, we have an example in northern Croatia. So a lot of schools and halls are built by that concept. And you remember a colleague and fellow government amendment two years ago on the government budget rebalance when that year, I think 40 million, this year it was 25 and for 2015 I think it was cut to 23 million aid from the state budget to those units of local self-government because they were unable to finance those projects imposed on them by someone up there, conducted tenders, built, and they took the obligation to pay for it all together. And when we reflect that picture on what happened last week to the units of local self-government, then in Croatia we have to ask one big, big question of responsibility for the adoption of certain laws. Let us take the case that a public-private partnership with a full swing, as it was said, was alive in Croatia, that many units of local self-government have listed contracts and started projects and someone has now cut 20% of their election incomes. You can think of what happens to them in the next 30 years because these are projects that at least make contracts for 30 years and some more. So when we talk about this legal certainty not only for private investors but also for the legal certainty felt by the leaders of local self-government units when they go into these long-term processes. So on the one hand, when you look at this law, it seems extremely tempting to you, you just call a tender, make a contract, someone will build you a building, you need to fill it up and you need to pay someone for the next 40 years. And it's beautiful and wonderful. Now take that you have money and you need to do it for one unit of local self-government or a state that we can say has no chance and is bankrupt. Is there a nicer and more carefree investment in money? There isn't. And the logical thing about having such a carefree investment of money to whoever he gave money to is certainly a good investor and one who manages money well. However, the question arises, I mentioned the case of these northern, northern counties and its municipalities and cities that happened to them and what happened to the units of local self-government now recent amendments to the law on the financing of local self-government units when the units of local self-government ran out of a lot of money. What's a little strange to me when someone says there are 5 million euros in Croatia, it's a little less than 38 million kuna at the current rate, when you add 25% of VAT to that, you'll come to some 47 million kuna. It is for many units of local self-government in Croatia not an investment but something huge. And when we talk about small and medium-sized investments, then we need to know first and foremost where they happen and where they happen, and then that's how they should be categorized. You cannot invest 5 million euros that happens in the city of Zagreb that it has the same and the same effect as an investment that happens in Knin, Gospić and another city. So that's just that, that 5 million is a very stretching, very relative term. And if we say that we want to make it easier to get to documents and everything together, then the question arises, and what's all this talk about reforms, about encouraging investment, about strategic investment, what million laws we've passed just because we eliminate what we're saying now is that we want to specifically single out these, and a little public private partnership of up to 5 million kunas. We're now saying that we're doing this specifically because we want to speed things up. So why did we bring all those other laws? You understand I mean it's, one with the other in contradiction. Because if you have the Strategic Investments Act, if you have those laws that one of the Foreign Ministry has you, that someone by the hand leads you around some kind of investment, etc., then why all this is still expensive. You can imagine how much dualism it is and how much conflict it is about how to help investors in various laws. I think it's a topic that's definitely topic number one, so we can even say the theme of all topics in the Republic of Croatia but it has to be processed in one law and not define this. And what particularly intrigued me is the total cost of living, says the total cost of public building, construction and maintenance, replacement of materials, financing and other costs defined by the HRN ISO standard, etc., with risks involved and, where appropriate, the costs of using cleaning, energy, security and others. Look, if we're talking about something that has its definition, we can't leave a definition of the total cost of living on such a wide scale. Although those total cost of living when they... In everyday administration, life expenses are used for something else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this life may need to change, but it's a very, very stretching term and I think it can be abused depending on who needs to be in what situation. The more I said that maybe one of the most discreet things, the most problematic things about the conclusion of the PPP Treaty is this particular maintenance contract. But the question arises: Why don't I maintain this building myself that someone built and let me say there's a school or a nursing home inside. Why would I give it to the one who did it to him for maintenance. If you say for the first 10 years, I'm practically not going to have any maintenance costs. And if you make this deal, he certainly won't charge you for the first few years that way. However, when the total cost of living is calculated, then these costs of energy and material are all recognised in this calculation and the question of whether you are recognised if you do not have contracted maintenance with it. So here we need to clearly define that no matter who maintains the building that category enters the total amount to calculate these life costs. I'm saying since it doesn't have to be that whoever built the building and whose building is that he's in maintenance, he can be someone else. After all, I can, by some estimate, trust some third party to do this job for me. Isn't that right or isn't it? So these are things that simply need to be broken down and cleared up and the great capital value of the project means the total estimated cost of building a public building. Now it's not clear to me what it means because if the building is built then they have some sort of building logs, they have a temporary, they have an end to the situation, and it's known how much it costs. Why should we go estimating her? Because someone knocked up the value of the building? I mean, there's no need to assess if it's a new facility. So all the documents have, how much that building costs. Another thing to do, even when it comes to a used object when it's being reorganized, it's also got what its assessment is, then it's clear exactly how much construction works are to fix it. You know exactly because you're doing some books. So I would run away from the assessment here, this assessment can be very dangerous and I am telling you from experience, from conversations with people from the World Bank, with people from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development who offered technical assistance to the Republic of Croatia and have warned about many things about the public private partnership. And finally to finish, as I said, the law is by far controversial as it is too much in Croatia, there are some objects that function perfectly, there are things that don't work well, but we in Croatia must be aware that nothing will happen on their own. Something will happen if we prepare and create a prerequisite for that to happen. Nothing will happen to itself, nor by amending this law anything revolutionary will happen, as has not happened in the past 2.5 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95144	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95145	Dear fellow Shuker, I have listened very carefully to your debate and with a large, large part of the debate, I agree, I am actually pleased to see how careful you have spoken of this problem and I am pleased that you have mentioned the British experience during the debate. I've been looking for the experience of countries that have run a public private partnership analysis, and I've only found it, perhaps my fault, that New Zealand alone has been doing an official, public analysis of the public private partnership, and in 2009, it's done that there's too much evidence of the benefit of a public private partnership. That's the conclusion of the New Zealand analysis. When the British did an analysis of the public private partnership, they came to one conclusion, that they could only determine the unequivocally enormous profit of private partners. That was the conclusion. You mentioned the example of the Croatian SZ, I spoke here two years ago, if you remember I was very attacked when I put under the questionnaire. It's an ideological question, it's not just a question, it's a commitment to how we work, who we work with. Public private partnership is like marriage, it's important to choose partners and it's very important that the agreement you've just said, maintenance, profits, in which way it is achieved and secondly, control of all of this and the role of the state in this, especially when the state is a contracting authority or local self-government. What happens now at a time of crisis? Contracts were concluded before the crisis, and now debts have to be paid back. And what you said, the local self-government that's in big trouble because the state is centralized. Instead of decentralizing and giving a bigger vent to local self-government, unfortunately we do the opposite and quite certain that these models do not pass by with us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95146	Thank you very much. Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95147	Yes, fellow Vuksic, exactly the countries of Commonwealth are in principle the only ones that have applied it more significantly, but I have said it exactly and that is the fact why England did it. Except that in two, three or four years she doesn't have a deficit of 15 or 20%. And it's true, given the power of its industry and everything it's managed to start an economy with, it's managed to replace all those strategic branches that have shut down and they've done it because they're big and powerful. So it's also a key story when you take over an object that you've agreed with someone who invests, because we understand no one else's money if they won't make money. Everyone wants to pick up as much as possible and has as much profit as possible with as little risk as possible. That's a fact. And if we're dealing with some benign stuff, and we're not defining this contract-making story, warning exactly people in local self-government units what they need to look after, then what's going to happen will happen. Well, it doesn't take a man to be too much, to have knowledge of something, so eventually let's start with the house, the apartment and the school and everything, so the new building has practically nothing. You at school have to run walls and make some small adjustments and that's maintenance costs. However, for 40 years it is also a question of the quality of construction. There are construction facilities that have no problems using a 70-80-year period with some changes, but if I make a 40-year contract with you, then that's how I'm going to build it, and I'm going to adjust the cost of construction. Therefore, it is very important to see the project documentation, what quality of construction material, which... and all together, that the builders can talk about, should be inside to keep this building together. And not to mention the quality of the carpentry, etc., because I can install a carpentry that will be far cheaper, but after 20 years of saying I have to change it. But I can also install one that can last 40 years. So there's a lot of, a lot of details that you unfortunately cannot find in the law, and that's the key to the success or failure of this project for whoever's doing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95148	On behalf of SDP representative Sasa Djujic's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95149	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Public private partnership is a joint cooperative public sector activity with a private sector of production of public products or the provision of public services. The aim of the PPP is to make it more economical, efficient and efficient, or more successful in the production of public products or services compared to the traditional way of providing public services. A public-private partnership can be signed up as a public-private partnership in the area of planning the production of supply, financing, business or public-sector collection. The public sector appears on this occasion as a producer and offerer of such cooperation, as a partner who contractually defines the types and scale of transactions or services that it intends to transfer to the private sector and which it offers to the private sector. The private sector appears as a partner seeking such cooperation if it can achieve a business interest, i.e. a profit and is obliged to carry out contracted and defined tasks in quality. Public affairs can be carried out by public administrations in their own direction, i.e. own resources and personnel, however, in certain cases the public administration is not able to perform public affairs directly in its own direction, mostly for two reasons. The first is due to the lack of expertise of public administration employees in specific professional affairs and the second is the most present, due to the high costs of performing public affairs in its own direction. What characterizes PPP projects is long-term contractual cooperation, mostly between 20 and 25 years between the public and private sectors, real distribution of business risk and comprehensive responsibility on the part of the private sector. The lack of money in the public sector over the past 20 years has highlighted the need for public-private partnership models as solutions for public money replacement in projects of public interest. It should be pointed out that the public-private partnership is a good model for meeting public needs on the one hand in the lack of the possibility that public administration itself will satisfy and satisfy the business interests of private partners on the other hand, all in order to improve the quality and accessibility of public services to citizens. In view of these needs, many countries in Europe, and so Croatia too, had to legislate the frameworks for implementing public-private partnerships projects. The PPP law regulates the process of proposing and approving projects, contract content and other important issues in the area of PPP. From the entry into force of the previous Law on PPP from 2008 to the entry into force of the current law in 2012, only 3 PPP projects have been approved, and from 2012 to today we have 10 new PPP projects totalling 5 billion kuna of which 3 are in the public procurement process, confirming the justification for the need to amend this law. We can freely say that although progress has been seen since 2012 in terms of improving the period for the previous period, we still cannot be satisfied with the number of public-private partnerships projects. Of course, it should be made clear that nothing goes overnight and quickly and moves are seen, but the future needs to work more intensively on this issue and we hope that these changes of law will also contribute to increasing efficiency and efficiency in public-private partnership projects. Of course, there has been a change in the circumstances of the public-private partnership market, which also confirms the need to adopt these amendments. For this reason, the SDP club supports the amendments to this law, and once again we point out that we hope to increase efficiency and efficiency on these projects' issues. We also support the pooling of agencies in order to reduce costs, but what is much more important, the unification of agencies in order to improve efficiency and efficiency. It is certain that the single agency will be more efficient and better at achieving its objectives, increasing the number of projects and increasing the quality of the service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95150	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95151	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on PPP, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 748. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law, please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 80 votes in favour, no abstentions and 32 votes against the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public-private Partnership in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95203	Now we'll reunite the two laws as agreed. - Final draft law amending the Household Activity Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 753 - Final draft law amending the Law on the provision of services in tourism, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 747 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Tourism. You've received their reports. And the introduction will explain to us the proposals of the law of Deputy Minister of Tourism, Mr. Douglas Koraca. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95204	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. These laws propose to regulate the matter governed by the regulations amending the Law of Food Activities and amending the Law on the provision of services in tourism that the Government adopted in July of this year. Since, under the government's law, regulations regulate certain issues in the Croatian Parliament's section, that Regulation may remain in force until the end of this year, and the same issue should be regulated by law. Important laws regulate the ways and conditions under which legal and natural persons can carry out catering activities and provide services in tourism as well as the authorisation of tourist inspectors in carrying out inspection surveillance in the area. In the application of those laws, there was a lack of clarity in the handling of competent inspectors in sanctioning, and the need to define more clearly the conduct of the inspection control itself, which was distributed between the tourist inspection in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Tourism and the customs administration in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance. These laws therefore propose to establish a clear authorisation for tourist inspectors to prohibit the pursuit of activities, i.e. the provision of catering services and the provision of services in tourism, if the activity is carried out, or catering services are provided against a direct solution, and if the catering activity and services are provided without a solution, then the customs administration will act in accordance with its jurisdiction. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95205	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The colleagues Grubisic and Caine are gone, so the Independent Representatives Club loses the right to debate on this point. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95206	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister and Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. Thus, the proposal for a law amending the Law on Food Activity and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the provision of services in tourism states that they only want to permanently remove the unclearities observed in the conduct of competent inspectors in the areas of hospitality, i.e. tourism. This law proposes to regulate the matter which is now governed by the Regulation amending one and the other law adopted by the Government in July of this year, and since under the Law on the Powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the regulation may remain in force for the longest period of time until 31 December. Today we have these two laws as agenda points. In practice, there have been discrepancies in the handling of competent inspectors in sanctioning the provision of catering activities, i.e. the provision of services in tourism. It was necessary to define more clearly the conduct of inspection supervision between the Tourist Inspectorate of the Ministry of Tourism and the Customs Administration of the Ministry of Finance. According to the current articles of the law, the provision of catering activities and the provision of catering services without a solution by the competent authority or without enrolment in the register or without approval as well as in cases where the provision of services in tourism is without a solution, or without enrolment in the register, may also be sanctioned by a tourist inspector. This law proposes that the tourist inspector shall have the power only if the activity, i.e. services, is provided contrary to the decision of the competent authority and that the customs administration is acting without a solution. I think the practice will just show very quickly that you need to do the opposite. Very soon, it will be requested that the tourist inspector can and must sanction those who perform the catering activity, or provide catering services or provide services in tourism. We of the HDZ Club have also warned in the adoption of a whole package of amendments and additions to the law which, after 15 years of movement, was deleted by the state inspectorate in an emergency procedure and now we have to warn again. By specialising and narrowing down jurisdiction, the inspector on the ground for the identified offence will be ineligible, meaning that he will leave the facility, the field of half the work done or the unfinished work. And while the letter is sent to that competent inspector, the irregularities will most often not be able to determine. And what is most absurd about what is going on in these changes, and the urgent procedure states that this is primarily necessary to protect consumers in order to ensure the effectiveness of inspection supervision. These amendments confirm that the tourist inspector is not responsible for the operation of unregistered catering activities, i.e. the provision of services in tourism for so-called tourism. working on black. In order to make it clearer for our citizens, and also for you respected colleagues and colleagues, for example, a tourist inspector comes to a tourist resort, a village, a street or even better by boat to the island. Almost every family is engaged in renting rooms or apartments. Almost every house will find guests. Given this crisis, it's an additional source of income to all those up the coast. A tourist inspector walks into one that has a license plate on the door. You know that all those who have a solution to work must have a tile, a blue tile on which the room or apartment with designated stars is written by the Ministry of Tourism. Our inspector may enter that facility and now he knows that there is a solution for providing catering services in the household. In supervision reviewing the solution for work, guest registration, guest book, entrance to rooms and apartments, checking everything you need to have with regard to the number of stars for which the solution is owned. Number of nightstands, night lamps, number of towels and hangers in closets. And then he finds out that there aren't four hangers in the closet in the bedroom that are prescribed by the number of stars he has a solution for. And he's writing a record to collect the fine or pass the record to the judge for violations. And then the bitter tenant invites the tourist inspector to enter his neighbor who has neither a work solution nor a famous record, a signal to our inspector that he can enter that facility, he doesn't issue bills, he doesn't pay taxes, and he's full of foreigners. The tourist inspector sees it all and he can't do anything. He should come to his office, write a memo to the Customs Administration on the assumption that the facility is working on black. Then, of course, when they receive a letter by post, when their superior schedules the case to one of the customs authorities inspectors should be seen when there is a free vehicle, i.e. when it comes to transport by boat and send to that village to oversee their inspector. By that time, guests from that house had long gone too far to leave our beautiful house and paid for the accommodations of our tenant. And when it comes to tourism services, the situation is even more ridiculous. For example, the tourist inspector goes to oversee the work of tourist guides and finds more on the ground. Those who have a solution to the approval can be controlled and punished, and those who have no solution can not. I wonder what will happen when, after a few days at best, if not a few weeks later, the customs inspector comes to that same place in a cathedral and to some square and look for this tourist guide. And on this occasion we want to point out that this structure is more complex, three times more expensive and the Croatian Democratic Community cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95207	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95208	Dear colleagues, what you have today and now told us here and listed these examples belong to the section believe it or not. It's really hard to even imagine the way they set up the inspection in this way. But the Ministry of Tourism will also enter the section believe it or not on open issues challenges and research into the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic Sea we had a thematic session and you see whether or not the Ministry of Tourism appeared to be so slightly positive. But believe it or not, you know for a fact that a strategic study of environmental protection is neither done, however, it is not known what impact it will have on the environment, on tourism primarily wells in the sea. Because you don't know that. But the competition's over, the SPECTRUM's got everything. No problem told us the rapporteur that the contest was, they got permission but only when this strategy they intend to make in three months and we know very well that it is impossible. So if we are a tourist country and we want to deal with tourism, then obviously this is the Ministry of Tourism that should have reacted differently, but given everything that's going on in Croatia, believe it or not, this is not going to go well either.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95209	Replication response, Branka Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95210	Thank you very much. So esteemed colleagues, twilight, all say tourism is one of the most important economic branches. However, when we adopt the budget for next year and the projection for 2016 and 2017 we see what status the Ministry of Tourism has in our Government, in our state budget. 234 modest millions in 2014 by 12%, respectively, were mostly reduced right in the Ministry of Tourism, only 205 million with a tendency to decrease. Do we really expect tourism to develop on its own and only thanks to the sun and the sea or are we ready to set something aside for this tourism. The tourism fund that had and amounted to 20 million this year is 50% lower. One of the best projects I'd say not only the tourism ministry, but these governments were projects within this fund. Unfortunately, there was no ear to continue at least in the amount they were so bored with.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95211	My colleagues and colleagues, how we have the representatives of most of the clubs here tomorrow, we have a problem that there aren't a lot of proposing representatives, so tomorrow we're going to do point 39. Report on the work of the Probation Service for 2013, Report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2013 so make sure that the representatives of the clubs are there to discuss these topics. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, colleague Nenad Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95212	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with an associate. Well, here's after this debate, my colleague Branka, it's hard to add. She made all the nice excuses out of practice, I can only relate a little bit to her and say that these are the third changes this year in services, tourism and catering. If both of these laws were to be considered, then you could freely say that there was no idea who was drinking, who was paying, who had jurisdiction when he was acting on what occasions. However, the Customs Administration has acted in cases of unregistered activities of providing catering services without a solution, without enrolment in the register or register, and this could also be done by the Tourist Inspectorate of the valid Article 40 of their activity. A tourist inspection shall be authorised to prohibit the provision of catering activities if it is carried out counter-issued by the competent authority and in the part in which the activity is carried out or provided services contrary to the solution issued. Customs puck means the administration is now acting when the catering activity is provided without any solution. I think these short amendments to the law are only made a little bit clearer. And since December 31st, they highlight these legal regulations that the government has passed under the legal powers still somewhere in July, it is necessary to bring these amendments to the next tourist season so that no one knows who drinks and who pays. I'd like to drink, just let someone else pay. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95213	On behalf of HNS representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95214	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy. First of all, I would like to say two, three words about the law itself, especially the Household Activity Act. Namely, I would ask you at the ministry to finally make this law a little bit, it is great in its content and it has great content and it really cares and is trying to make sure that the caterers provide quality service to the users, but we have, some time it gets home when it starts to read and conclude where the law is and where it is added, it does not add, what needs to be found by the catererer within that law to find everything, as if that law against the catererer. We know it would be good for the law to get that note, if it were for the caterers as well. Because he is not only in this activity, but he must also help and facilitate the caterers along with all the rules that come with all this together, he must help the caterers to make it as simple as possible, as possible to carry out their activities and to their satisfaction. We're not at the satisfaction of the user. As regards these amendments themselves in this joint discussion, the amendment of the Law on Attending Activity and the amendment of the Act on the provision of services in tourism is identical in the assessment of the situation in a couple of parameters. Let me, for the sake of the potentially interested public, also read that it says: "In practice, there have been ambiguities in the handling of competent inspectors in sanctioning the provision of catering activities carried out contrary to the solution issued for the provision of catering services, i.e. sanctioning the provision of catering services, contrary to the decision on the authorisation to provide catering services. These were assessed to define more clearly the conduct of inspection supervision, which was divided in the field of hospitality between the tourism inspection of the Ministry of Tourism and the customs administration of the Ministry of Finance." Officials of the customs administration shall, in particular, comply with the provisions of the Law on the prohibition and prevention of the conduct of unregistered activities. In the conduct of inspection supervision in the field of hospitality in cases where there is an economic activity or provision of catering services without a supervisory authority’s solution, or without enrolment in the registered register, or a register or without authorisation provided for in Article 40 of that applicable Household Activity Act. It would appear that the same could be sanctioned by tourist inspectors. Therefore, in order to clarify the interpretation of the distinction between the customs administration and the tourist inspection, it is proposed that this law lays down clear powers for tourists to prohibit the provision of catering activities, i.e. the provision of catering services only if the activity or services is provided contrary to the decision of the competent authority and in the act in which the activity is carried out or the service is provided contrary to the solution issued and which is in accordance with Article 3. The tourism inspection law. In the event that the catering activity is carried out or the catering services are provided without any solution, the customs administration will act in accordance with its jurisdiction. The adoption of the proposed law would provide for a clear way of carrying out an inspection view in the field of hospitality and thus taking measures to prohibit the conduct of unregistered activities in the field of hospitality by the customs administration. That's what I'm saying in terms of the law and one proposal to amend the law and one law. They relate, first in the catering activity, to Articles 19, 20, 22, 23, 25, 30, 33 and 38. The law on catering activities and these members determine exactly what activities can be carried out and which tourist inspection should be monitored. And it's about for example. on Article 19 "The caterer may carry out the catering activity if a solution to the competent office or ministry results in the catering facility meeting the prescribed conditions laid down by law and regulations adopted under the law." In Article 20, which also concerns "The competent office shall, at the request of the host, determine whether the minimum conditions for a type of catering facilities are met which are not characterised and determine the fulfilment of the conditions for a specific standard, allocation... and the quality for catering facilities from groups of restaurants and bars." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "The Ministry shall, at the request of the host, determine the fulfilment of the conditions for the type of category of catering facility from the group of hotels." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "The Ministry... implements every year a re-catering category of catering facilities, all three years." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. "The decision referred to in Article 20(3), Article 22(1) of this Act is otherwise the hosts with the following conditions and says: that it is registered to carry out catering activities, that it has the right to use business premises or facilities, that the catering facility in which the catering activity is to meet the conditions laid down for a specific type or category of catering facilities, that it fulfils other conditions prescribed by these laws and regulations adopted by this law, that the building which is or which is a catering facility fulfils the conditions in accordance with specific regulations without which the ministry may not issue a solution, etc." Article 33 of the talks "For the provision of catering services in the household,... it is necessary to result in a solution." It also touches this, also touches the services in the rural household, and it is up to the agricultural economy to find a solution to the competent office of authorisation for the provision of catering services. Namely, it covers practically all catering activities, all types of catering activities in all the facilities under the House of Restaurant Activities Act. It is similar from the proposal of the Law on the provision of services in tourism with the final proposal of the law which treats both tourist agencies, and tourist guides, and rural, health, cultural, wellness, congress tourism tourism for young people, adventure hunting golfing tourism, sports recreational fishing at sea, diving tourism, sports fishing on freshwater,... activities in the farming of marine and freshwater fish, crabs, shells, shells, etc., and other tourist services are the rental of accessories and equipment for sport and recreation such as sandoline, waterboards, bicycles, sunbeds, etc., these are all activities that should be controlled and their correctness should be controlled by tourist inspectors. The division and separation of inspections is a total of a questionable subject and it can really be looked at from various points of view. From my personal experience, and it has been a long time ago, it is better to have more inspectors, and sometimes it is better that one inspector himself and that the knowledge and competences are united in one inspector, but the essence of any inspection should be a double one, certainly a regularity in the work and protection of the consumers of services, i.e. supporters, and the other what I said at the beginning, the essence of the inspection must not be punishment, the essence of the inspection must be assistance and assistance to the employees, i.e. people who provide services both in catering and tourism. The HNS club of liberal Democrats will accept the proposals of one law and another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95215	Thank you. Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95216	Thank you. Well, colleague Blažeković, I usually rarely agree with your views, and I must admit that this time I agree with you, especially in the assessment that the laws and this Law on catering activities really should not be restrictive and observe the subject of the law as a offender and think only that we will in law install as many different provisions of restrictive ones that will actually make it difficult. Finally, this way of observation, the work of all forms of entrepreneurship has actually led us in some way to the situation that it is difficult today to entrepreneurship in Croatia, so it is difficult today and this entrepreneurship in catering. And at the end of today, we are still further discussing restrictive provisions and various inspection controls that will take place in this activity. We are all finally traveling to countries outside the Republic of Croatia and EU member states, to the United States, and we see in fact how simple they are, and these catering and various entrepreneurship activities are related to hospitality while we have one big heavy mass, this is the question of whether you have a sticker, whether you have a sticker, have..., have you..., have you solved everything, I think, and in the end, of course, that activity today is one loady and burdened with a number of regulations and pressures that we once consciously, once unconsciously brought, into this catering activity and in many other activities. So I actually agree and support this view of yours that we should actually think about how to go pro, and also entrepreneurship and hospitality, and not constantly how to come up with different restrictive provisions that we are in fact in some way slowing down or making these activities more difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95217	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95218	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ma co-worker Blažeković, I only volunteered for the replica because I saw that you were very uncomfortable to talk about, at least I got that impression because you read all of this, and listening to a previous colleague who explained it, who is also the mayor of the tourist town, really doesn't get the impression, but that is, we have a customs inspection and a tourist inspection. So, it's bad if you applied, and if you've got it all signed up, the neighbor next door has nothing on you, you're gonna pay the fine, and this one comes to you by the time the inspector says it's easy, and then we're gonna be out of these guests, it's gonna be some kind of cousin. In addition, termology is a disaster, I think, customs inspection and tourism. It is clear that it is tourist tourism, customs in the people is something else, and when at one facility somewhere at sea, when it comes to customs it faints because it has no idea what it is. So I know you'll support it, but this really offends intelligence, insults everything. Well, we're not going to support the grey economy now, so to say that we won't be restrictive to someone, we can't have someone paying taxes without a neighbor paying for it, because in some ways, it's going to be easy to get rid of their guests or shut down some kind of facility in a hurry until that customs inspector shows up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95219	Replication response, Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95220	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you for the replica, Mrs. twilight, but it's completely wrong. I was not at all embarrassed to talk about it but I only have a personal problem with this law for a reason because it is terribly long, complicated and calls for various, not that, but the Household Act, about the catering activity, I speak of it specifically. This about tourist activity is much simpler. And in that context, I don't know exactly what to catch myself for, but as far as the inspections are concerned, and as for this example that your colleague cited, which clearly exists, there are inspections, so we're making these two amendments to the law so that it won't be because... Comrade twilight, illegal business, so it's not the state's fault, it's the one who's doing the illegal business. Well, it's not the state's fault that someone's stealing, it's someone who's going to find someone who's going to get caught, so there's a state. Well, that's the function of the state, and that's why everything you said is standing, but there are inspections, and that's why the Croatian Party... and I will personally strongly support these laws that give very concrete clear ingenuity and competences to the inspectors to do their job, and that is that all that is wrong, against the law to report it and to end up processing and punishing it and to make it as little as possible. That's what laws like this are for, and I have to admit it wasn't awkward to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95221	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Đurđica Plancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95222	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. The most recent amendments and additions to these laws were carried out in February of this year, primarily in order to bring them into line with the Law on Design and the Part-Corruption of Ministrys and other central authorities of the state administration. This law abolished the State Inspectorate, so it was necessary to regulate inspection supervision in the area of hospitality and tourism. The implementation of the inspection supervision of the amendments to the Law on Food Activity as well as the Law on the provision of services in tourism is divided between the tourism inspection and the Ministry of Tourism and the Customs Administration of the Ministry of Finance in such a way that the tourist inspection is supervised and handled in cases where the catering activity or tourist activity is carried out contrary to the decisions issued by the competent authorities, while the inspectors of the Customs Administration will act in case where such activities are carried out without authorisation. It's completely unregistered. These changes were supported by the SDP. In practice, however, there was a partial overlap in their behaviour. As a result of the applicable provisions of the relevant laws, even where work is established without authorisation, tourist inspectors should prohibit further activities from being carried out. In order to remove this ambiguity and allow more effective supervision during the past tourist season, the government adopted appropriate regulations in July. Those regulations are in force only until the end of this year, so it is necessary to ensure that these ambiguities are permanently eliminated in the emergency procedure. With these amendments to the law, we include the content of these regulations in the relevant laws and thus ensure a more precise distinction between the competences of these inspections, and this is necessary for the sake of better consumer protection in the future, and therefore the SDP club will, of course, support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95223	Thank you. She's a colleague of Branka Juričev-Martinchev, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95224	Dear colleagues, I know this is very difficult to defend, but you said more effective surveillance. You're from Starigrad, two hours of boat ride from Split, tell me what's more effective in this law when a tourist inspector like I said finds a tourist guide who works and can punish him and the other without a solution takes him two hours to get to Split, write a memo, send it to Customs, schedule the employee and send him back two hours to Starigrad, what do you think you'll find him again? Where's the efficiency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95225	Miss Plancic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95226	My colleague, I didn't say I didn't say that there was no problem and that it wasn't working that efficiency... and I don't see what would be the problem with two inspections being on the ground at the same time or independent of one of the long ones and each of them solving their part of the job. I mean, I don't see what a lack of efficiency would be.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95227	A colleague of Silvano Hrelja, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95228	Dear colleagues, you have visited me in your debate on the frequent amendments to these laws on catering activities and on the provision of services in tourism, but there is no way to make a single change that the Association of Retired People has been seeking for years, which is that without fear of inspectors in their closed circle for their members to cook coffee, drink beer, etc. So without any intention of making any profit and competing with anyone on the market at privileged prices. In fact, we need to understand what averages people live with, and this does not stop the need for socializing and that someone feels like a normal person. So I'd like you to give me some kind of support to sort that out, of course, under strictly controlled conditions, not that everyone can abuse it, but that there's one right of pensioners because associations have been demanding it for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95229	Miss Plancic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95230	Well, my dear colleague, I know this is your endeavor to allow pensioners' associations to provide these catering services, but I believe that they are not just pensioners' associations and who would like to carry out catering activities in this way, so I guess that's why there's no exception for retirement associations.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95231	On behalf of the promoter, Deputy Minister of Tourism Douglas Korac will address finally. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95232	Thank you very much, ma'am. I thank all the MPs and MPs for the debate, and I would just like to look back on these remarks regarding the well-meaning of these legislative regulations and these other remarks made by my colleague Hrelja. And I'd just like to say that, of course, our goal is to make these amendments to the law and, in general, the whole law to make business easier for business not to make it difficult for them. And the full texts of the law are currently on working groups and where all attitudes agree and by the end of this year we can expect a presentation at public debates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95233	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95234	Final proposal for a law amending the Law on hospitality, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 753. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law, please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes are 86 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 25 votes against the passed law amending the Household Activity Act as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95267	We will move to: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on compulsory insurance in transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 764; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the report at the session. Introductoryly, he will explain the law of Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95268	Thank you, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Allow me to present in short lines this Amending and supplementing the law on compulsory insurance in transport. The most important change in these changes and additions and I will take the most of your time for it is to delete the provision according to which driver who is damaged person in a car accident and if he has not secured his vehicle did not have the right to compensation by the insurance company responsible for the car accident. In fact, such a provision was introduced in 1.7.2013 when receiving the European Union through a series of laws, through a package of laws that we then had a lot of amendments and additions to this bill and the aim of such a decision was to reduce the number of unsecured vehicles on the roads and to motivate people to pay compulsory insurance. However, given that the provision did not fully achieve its purpose with these amendments and the additions, that part of the law which was therefore adopted in 1.7.2013 is abolished. The basic reason, as he said, was that in practice they proved to be damaged and not insured persons by the basis of the Mandatory Relations Act sought directly from the pests, hence the orderly insured person, which is contrary to both the purpose and meaning of compulsory insurance and the contrary to the intention for which this provision was introduced. Therefore, by eradicating this provision, the insurance of pests will again be covered by damages which will again cover the damage caused by unsecured vehicles. Since 45 damage claims have been made in the meantime, the estimated value of which is slightly less than 6 million kuna and the basis of the provision that is now being repealed would have a retroactive effect and will therefore be applied according to this proposal to all proceedings which are not legally completed and with the date of entry into force of this law. In order not to place a disproportionate burden now on insurance companies in this amendment and supplement that we are proposing to you in front of the Government, deadlines and interest would begin to run from the day of entry into force of these amendments to the laws and not from the day of submission of the damage claim which was one of the proposals in the debate, but I say we gave up and we say that it would be good to be from the day of the amendment and the addition of the law, so that deadlines and interests are moving. The second major amendment to this is that, through Article 4 of this proposal, the law introduces newspapers according to which the insurance company has the right to regress, so the total amount of damage, interest and costs paid by the person responsible for the damage if it is secured with that company. If the damage caused by the criminal part of the road traffic suspension and if the same case is subject to a judicial judgment, that is to say, compliance with other laws. There's another small number of small changes, but I think the opening letter says that this will be enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95269	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, colleague Nenad Dance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95270	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. So here this afternoon mostly solves some technical laws that didn't say the hard nature, the hard nature, easily agree with them and support them. And especially when we talk about this mandatory vehicle insurance bill, then you learn the most about it when something like that happens to him and when he has a problem and then he doesn't know how to solve it. There is no problem with this law at all because public debate has not received any comments on it. In addition, there is compliance with Directive 2009/103 of the European Union which now resolves this in a more normal way because, normally, it is in the interest of all of us who have secured vehicles that in the event of an accident, our insurance company covers the costs of another vehicle, another insurance undertaking if its vehicle is not also provided. But it hurts us a lot more when we're involved in such an accident where we have an insurance vehicle, we're not guilty and the driver is the driver of a vehicle that's not insured, and then the bigger problems are far more difficult to solve, and then we have to sue it with a lawsuit, look for claims. And by the time we get to our money, it's time and time. So in this law, there is a right to compensation for an unsecured vehicle when damage has been done on it and the insured person also loses the right to compensation for damages if it is caused by an accident drive and that is proven. The legislator's intensity was to reduce the number of vehicles, unsecured vehicles on the roads, however, the same repressive penalty measure of between 5 and 50 thousand kuna fines for such irresponsible drivers must be far more effective. Here's so short. The Croatian Labour Club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95271	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Ante Kulušić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95272	Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Insurance in Transport. The last time we discussed the same law here in the Croatian Parliament on 11 June 2013 when we have to admit it was not very much an interest to discuss this law because no one, not a club, nor an individual, applied for, and therefore unfortunately we voted for something that belonged to the category believed or not. We've passed a law saying that the owner of the registered motor vehicle, if he does, blames the car accident, does not pay for his insurance company, but he does. That's amazing. I worked in security for 33 years. As that went by, it obviously missed because we all pass these laws in a hurry, without debate, without anything, and today, after such luck only 50 and some of the cases we heard on the board yesterday, the law is changing. This law was supposed to change after the first such accident that happened so I see Mr. Hrelja watching, did you understand what I said? You have a registered motor vehicle and you hit someone who's unregistered, not paying your insurance, but you yourself or me or anyone else. That's something amazing that was. The HDZ Club supports this amendment, however, it is questionable whether the law can be retroactively applied since 11 June 2013 when we adopted it. The HDZ Club proposes that we commit ourselves to introducing stricter control of unregistered motor vehicles. in order to remove the plates after an emergency procedure to avoid unregistered motor vehicles being on roads or to avoid being active in traffic. However, here we are again here today and we are discussing mandatory insurance in transport, so I feel it is necessary to say a few things on behalf of the HDZ Club. In fact, the last time the law was amended was mainly about harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia in the area of compulsory transport insurance with Directive 103 of 2009. At that time, the most important law paper compared to the existing law was to increase the amount secured in auto responsibility insurance contracts, the deadline for resolving compensation claims for material and immaterial damage to 60 days would be extended, instead of 30 days. The Directive allows for up to 90 days. Furthermore, provisions were introduced to ensure that insured persons were injured by the criminal offence of road traffic driving, for which a judgment was passed, were lost from insurance rights. Today, we have a law that the government passed at its meeting on November 26th and sent it to the Croatian Parliament and included in the damage coverage system the unsecured vehicles, what I was just talking about. Given the large number of deaths in car accidents, it is important that we all work together to reduce the number of deaths, to make road safety the most important item for us all to have fatalities in accidents as little as possible. Accordingly, perhaps this about unsecured cars is not the best solution for some drivers, and it may not be motivated by some drivers to save their own car, so here's the only item I would point out here to think about it. It is also proposed in this law to provide insurance to the owner i.e. the vehicle user shall cover the damage to unsecured vehicles. The news is that the insurance company will have the right to collect a regress from persons secured for damages caused by an obscenity drive for which a judicial verdict has been passed, with interest. In other words, according to a new insurance company which pays its insurance company compensation for the consequences of a traffic accident which has been caused by intent, whether as a criminal offence of a road traffic insurance undertaking, which is subject to a final judgment, the person responsible for the damages of that insurance company may claim the full amount paid plus interest. What is most important in this law, I will repeat what I have already said, is the fact that now the owners of vehicles that have had and paid mandatory insurance policy against auto responsibility will no longer be left unprotected if they are involved in a car accident, or will no longer have to pay for that damage. We also welcome the provision that insurance companies are now subject to the obligation to pay compensation to insurance undertakings for damages or indisputable part of the amount of damage within 60 days of receiving the compensation claim. But in the end, I will repeat that the HDZ Club will support this change of law. The tragedy is that this law hasn't changed before, but we've had to wait a year and a half. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95273	Silvano Hrelja, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95274	Dear fellow, you gave me a bit of a kick when I got your attention, but that's not for no reason. Of course, we will also support these amendments and additions to the law, but it has associated me with some of my frustrations from two previous mandates when I proposed amendments to the Law on Roads, and in the context of mandatory insurance in traffic precisely because of another case, because of the attacks of savages. Huge damages are paid by our citizens because of the possible failure of one step to ensure that drivers are provided by compulsory insurance against these damages. Namely, the damages are not a problem for highways that are fenced there, if they happen then highways are secured and pay off such damage neatly. However, on state and local roads you have claims from hunting companies that do not have their own property or have formal insurance from petty savages. And you run into a fart or a wild pig where you've got a lot of damage to your car. You can't charge for it from the Zuc. There is one exception in Krapina-Zagorje County ZUC has secured such cases and their drivers in the county are in a more favourable position than others in Croatia. I have already proposed twice in amendments to the Law on Roads relating to compulsory insurance to transfer it, to ensure that drivers are provided by compulsory insurance against the damages of savages. I think that would be a more complete solution and that insurance would have someone of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95275	Ante Kulusic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95276	Well, colleague Hrelja, I couldn't agree more with you. And I know in my county in Sibenik-Knin hunting societies are secured from the responsibility of savages. I know the traffic police are coming out to the scene and insurance companies are paying for the damages. However, it must be systematically adopted that all hunting societies, that simply a hunting society cannot exist unless there is a liability insurance. It can, because we all know that hunting societies are doing more or less well today and they have money and it's not hard to pay for liability insurance from savages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95277	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Peja Grbin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95278	Dear Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, Your Honor, Well, my colleagues who preceded me in the debates have said everything, almost everything and little remains to be added. But I have to, but I still have two things to explain, so I'm gonna go in a row. The fact is, therefore, that the Transport Mandatory Insurance Act has been voted unanimously and may not have given attention enough. And it is also a fact that in the ministry, however, they have disobeyed some of the warnings that we have sent that this situation will happen to them more than it is about shutting down a cover that is not provided for by Parliament and Council Directive No. 2009 from, excuse me, No. 103 of 2009. And that is why, in that non-compliance with the directive, there is also a reason why retroactive law enforcement must be applied here. So, what happened? The law predicted a situation that might best be described by example. You drive a motor vehicle and bend a car accident. And in that car accident, hit two vehicles. One is secure and registered, the other is not. For this vehicle that's secured and registered your insurance will pay for the damage, for this vehicle that isn't you will have to pay it out of your pocket. But that's not the only problem. The problem is that the directive which is commanded by Croatian law says the opposite. And you not only have to pay for it out of your pocket, but the problem for the state is coming? You have the right to ask the Republic of Croatia for this because the Republic of Croatia did not comply with EU law. And it is due to make up for that damage to citizens who do so. And we need to remove this from our legal system. Now, why retroactivity? Well, because since 1 July 2013, when the law came into force, it has since the first day in line with the directive. He has reduced the insurance coverage and insurance may complain that they are now being imposed on by some of the commitments they had never had before. But I'm going to answer them if any insurance companies because the reduced coverage has reduced the premium of the insurance we're paying? It's not. It's just that the premium hasn't changed because of this. Others are the reasons, but nobody listed this as the reason for the reduction in their premium. I'm not going to talk about other provisions of this law, the Deputy Minister explained it very nicely. I'm going to add only one thing to the retroactiveity provision provided for in the law. At its meeting, the Legislative Committee proposed one amendment precisely because we believe that this provision does not provide for all situations as provided for in the law. She's talking about ongoing procedures. However, a whole series of our citizens did not apply precisely because either they or the lawyers they addressed knew that this law did not provide for this insurance coverage, and there was no reason to address insurance. If we are to define ourselves in retroactive application only in those proceedings that are under way, we will neglect all those citizens who have basically acted in accordance with the law and did not seek compensation for damages, and we propose to the Ministry, or the Government, to accept this amendment. In any case, the law should be supported because it repairs the existing situation in the part where it was wrong. So, with that insurance cover. And yet, on the other hand, he brings in some high-quality newspapers concerning the deadlines for a reasoned answer or compensation for damages, the question of regression from the perpetrators of the crime of driving, etc. Here's the SDP Representatives' Club. They'll back this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95279	On behalf of the promoter, final Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95280	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here are two sentences to thank all the colleagues who took part in the debate on behalf of the clubs and inside the replicas. We weren't the happiest with that solution either, at least I was when I saw that we were actually fixing one mistake that had been made. But they say it's better to fix it than to leave and pretend you don't see anything. Because there was obviously a problem in that field. In fact, I was offered by a colleague of the Grbin who was saying in the end that it was very important and that we can also go and appeal to our citizens and to all stakeholders as popular as it is to say throughout this system that it is important that the insurance system is as high as possible and that indeed as many vehicles as possible actually all vehicles in the Republic must and should be secured. Of course, there are also a lot of complex European dynamics and international relations, and those vehicles located on Croatian roads and in the tourist season and the like. That's where everyone from their point of view makes a certain effort. There are a lot fewer of these vehicles, it is estimated that there are significantly fewer, there are fewer than 50,000 in Croatia, and those who are now are much less in traffic. The M.O.P.'s making a lot of effort here. And here's to the road safety law, and I think we all need to encourage everyone together to do what's duty. It has been shown that in recent months, and this is one of the benefits and entrys into the EU that the insurance premiums have been dropping in recent months, and I believe that it is also one of the reasons why it is actually a slightly more secure vehicle i.e. to ensure that all vehicles are provided and to say from that point of view and our citizens understand the benefits of these shifts. One of the benefits of joining the EU if we may have passed some laws in a hasty fashion, so we have been subdued by these mistakes, one of the benefits is that reduction of the insurance premiums and the competition that is happening in the field. I believe that in the future she will be born with as many insurance vehicles as possible, without having such an awkward situation as someone said only when a man faces it then she sees how important these laws are. Once again, thank you all for your support, and I believe that this bill will receive the support of all MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95281	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95282	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on compulsory insurance in transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 764. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like a representative of the government of respected Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radinovic to show himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95283	The amendment of the Committee on Legislatives is accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95284	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final proposal of the Law. I'm closing the debate. And I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the 109 votes in favour of, 4 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory Transport Insurance in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95285	We move on to - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Marine Fisheries Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. 767; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. You received the reports at the session. Introducing the proposal, Agriculture Minister Tihomir Jakovina will explain. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95286	I would like to thank the esteemed vice president of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. The Act on Marine Fisheries NN 81/2013. and no. 14/2014. At national level, the management, protection of renewable biological resources of the sea, the manner and conditions of fishing and farming, the monitoring of catch and breeding through data collection, support in fishing and market regulation, surveillance and inspection, as well as other issues relevant to marine fisheries are regulated. Given the new circumstances that have taken place in the period since the adoption of the Maritime Fisheries Act, this proposal makes it possible to implement the EU's common fisheries policy in an appropriate manner through the establishment of a fisheries control and control system, which fully implements a system of negative non-compliance points for serious violations in Croatian legislation, thus giving the Republic of Croatia a warning through the EU pilot and a warrant to establish that system as soon as possible. New offences as well as appropriate sanctions relating to the regulation and award of negative points for serious marine fisheries offences have been prescribed. In order to improve the control and control system in the area of fisheries and to give real competence to authorised persons from other authorities of the State so that they can monitor and control the implementation of rules in the fisheries sector, it is prescribed that authorised persons of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, customs officers and authorised persons of the Coast Guard to be trained in the field of marine fisheries by the Ministry of Agriculture and the basis of the rules to be adopted under this law. The proposed amendments are also necessary in order to define the transition mechanisms of small-scale fishermen in the small-scale coastal fisheries category, since the criteria prescribed by the earlier legal framework were in practice inapplicable and met the general public resistance when they were to be applied. Taking this into account the proposed changes, they provide a basis for the adoption of clear criteria and for the identification of small coastal fisheries following the agreement reached in the EU accession process. The above-mentioned agreement duly recognised the specificity of small-scale fisheries for personal purposes and enabled the transition mechanism of the earlier non-economic category to a particularly limited category of economic fisheries so that it allowed the retention of 3500 vessels in the register of the fleet of the Republic of Croatia from the previous category of small-scale fisheries with its transition to the category of small-scale coastal fisheries established by the 2010 Maritime Fisheries Act. As small fishing ceases to exist fully on 1 January 2015, all legal and technical preconditions for the application of the aforementioned small-scale transition mechanism for small-scale fishing should be established by this deadline. This implies the adoption of a Regulation on the number of holders of valid small-scale fishing authorisations to be granted small-scale coastal fishing privileges and laying down criteria for the issue of the necessary number of benefits for small-scale coastal fisheries to holders of valid small-scale fishing authorisations. Amendments to the law abolish the age-limit and asset censorship as a criterion for the granting of benefits and provide a basis for the adoption of benchmarks for the creation of a ranking list based on which small coastal fishing benefits would be granted and which would be subject to review each year. The rank list will be created by a system of points that will ensure transparency and justice and will be scored in terms of residence, islanded in remote islands, other island, coastal area, length of residence on islands, development of coastal municipalities and cities. The next category is age, so over 65 years old, 50 to 65 years old, under 50 years old, individuality, defence status, property status and social status, pensioners, employees, unemployed and the like. Given the large number of participants in the earlier category of small-scale fisheries for personal purposes and having regard to the social implications that the compensation mechanism for small-scale fishing for personal purposes is envisaged to issue an annual authorisation for recreational fishing and fishing permits with no compensation for all small fishermen who will not interfere with the category of small-scale coastal fisheries or will not be found among the first 3,500 on the ranking list for a given year. This represents an extremely demanding technical task for the competent administration that needs to be started as soon as possible in order for this system to be ready in 2015. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I would like to propose to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament a respected House of Law by an urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95287	Branko Bacic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95288	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr Minister, and in amending the law, i.e. in the proposed amendment of the law, and in your opening statement, you are saying that Article 21 will be amended, indicating provisions on the possibility of small coastal fishing, which will be possible for persons who have been authorised to fish until today. Among other things, you have listed the reasons, i.e. the criteria that will need to be met according to the ranking list that you will prepare after you have adopted a regulation defining the criteria for the transfer of persons holding a licence to the category of small coastal fisheries. Given that according to my data, they're accurate, somewhere around 10,000 users of the license at this point in time for small fishing. It might be good if you were in your opening part and said how approximately you expect it to be possible to issue for the next year these permits for small coastal fishing, or what you believe is most of all the most interested persons who are currently authorised for small fishing. It doesn't matter if it's 3,500 as much as it's guessing, or according to what it says, it seems to me somewhere in an explanation, or it's going to be a slightly larger number. It is very important that in the end we might also be able to determine according to this law in the debate itself, which will follow tonight after your opening presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95289	The reply to the replica of Minister Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95290	Thank you, Your Honor. 3 500 is the number that we are limited, which is negotiated and which we will issue in 2015. In total, somewhere around 9 600 that are now engaged and we said what are the compensatory measures for those who will not be or will be below the 3500 level list or will not learn as a compensatory measure. The administration will make maximum efforts and we will be able to issue permits within the specified deadlines. By the time they issue the license, they'll be working on the basis of...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95291	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ante Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95292	Dear Vice President, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here is one in front of us on the fast law, but it's not about such a thing, it's about a law that's extremely important for all of Dalmatia, for the whole sea area or the area of our islands where this law is very, very important for our people and will surely bring great interest and will bring great reactions and talks about this law. We discussed this law, this final proposal for the last time at the 12th session of 22.01.2014, and again it was in one united debate with 16 other laws and it was 17. It is clear to me that this is a law that we must comply with with the EU or European directives and that, in this sense and in the negotiations, it has been discussed and negotiated on this law, but I also consider it very important today to talk about the important things that this law makes, because many families have lived for years from further fishing and from this small fishing that has been a very important additional income or the main income to many families on our islands and in Dalmatia. She just talked about the State Inspectorate and its transition and new inspections that take care of this area. Here, we know that the deadline of the law is 31.12., or 1st of January, that this law must be applied, but I have the feeling that there is not enough attention to this law. And when we know, and here's the number here, 3,500 thousand people are registered in small fishing and how important it is to them, and how important this law is to them today when every job, every kuna and every profit is too important to our citizens to whom this source of income is, then we, too, are obliged to pay particular and correct attention to this law. It is said here that the law will not have any financial expenditure, and at the same time we say that all those who will take care of the supervision of this law must be trained free of charge, and then all these people who are required to be requalified, that is, to-morrow there will be supervision of this law. And when we talk about the law itself, then it would be interesting here to look at Article 15, and I think that the fishing privilege, its paragraph 1, the privilege of fishing, the privilege of a fishing authorisation, must be stored in the ministry. This Article shall apply from the date of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. You know that there are opportunities because after you said that it cannot be transmitted, that it is not family, that to one person is a period of discussion or I don't think that it should be bound by deadlines that should not be bound by any deadlines of this 6 months or 3 months or 9 months by a man registered, could be a disease in the family, could be some kind of problem that a man has so that he couldn't go to sea for a certain period of time or from time situations to these diseases should take care of himself, and maybe that shouldn't limit that time to 6 months because I think it'll create people's big problems. In addition, in Article 19(4), point (a) of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, point (c) of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 is replaced by the following: It should be specified by an authorised organisation because when it comes to the field or when inspectors come or when those who will oversee the law come, it is always interpreted in different ways. There are diving clubs that are authorized to train divers and now it's not defined which star is there but I think it should be specified because they say here according to special regulations, and now that these are special regulations, I think these general formulations can create problems for people in a moment. Because you know those who are now interpreting the law and implementing the law and the competent inspectors are the ones who can make problems for us in the field, so I think it would be useful here to say that they are diving clubs that have these powers and that give that jurisdiction. In the following Article 21, the conditions for obtaining small coastal fishing privileges are said, this paragraph 3. to which the 60-year-old remark was made. We know in which time we live, we know that many people in retirement are much younger and that in that sense we would not know how you came to this number for 60 years, but I think that this number should be reduced because all those who work and of 30 years of age are unfortunately incomes and personal incomes are very small and weak and that it should be made possible for people and young people regardless of this previous item 2 who said 50% of the budget base blah blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, but I don't think that these 60 years are a good figure to reduce it, I say because of a large number of pensioners, because of a large number of people who need this fishing and with less years of age. It is also intolerable in paragraph 3 of this Article for small coastal fishing. I think you should think about that too, and that formulation should be different, I think I should know that the whole law is conceived in a way that gives a person that everything applies to a person, but this law is also family. Because you know at least it's such a tradition that this whole tradition on our islands and in the coast and coast that families have dealt with it, that "little children" that children over 15, 16 years already go to sea, that they are active participants at sea, that they work in that small fishing and that they do it practically familyly. It should be considered whether it is so strictly binding that it is intolerable because I think it should be tolerated if it does not prevent I do not know any European laws, directives or which can already prevent us from giving the possibility of being able to pass on to family members. Because if we said that the previous total income per household member per month does not exceed 50% of the tax administration's budget base, then also here you give the possibility that this privilege can be transferred among family members because we have already put the censorship there as much as the percentage of their income so that it is possible for it not to be so strict that they are not portable. Further in Article 78, I think we should split up these fines a little bit because we put everything in the same penalty all 60 and something we put under the same so that it should be separated. Because it's not the same little offense, and when you come to a criminal judge, unfortunately, the law is always strictly enforced over these weakest ones and for some small offense to be the same category as this one that's in the same article that it should be some kind of violation of two, three thousand kunas for those minor violations, because when you come to the judge for the offenses, a man can have some car misdemeanor and then you come back here to the judge for the offenses, and he's looking at him in another way and he can punish him with a fine of ten thousand kunas. And you know how the live people for whom this law is passed and that there should be tolerance in a way that we have understanding of the social situation, of their condition, and I suggest on behalf of the club that this article 78. split up and that we have fewer penalties than 2 or 4, 5 thousand kunas and between 5 and 10, and 10 to 15 to help people if they already get into that situation so that they don't qualify as that little fisherman with some little something who really committed a major offense. Here I hope you will appreciate these remarks and all that is said, given that this law is too important for a large number of people on the coast in a situation where we are in a difficult economic situation as it is, in this number of unemployed, and that by respecting this, you will help these people who can say that they are among the most endangered because we know that the situation is both in our fisheries and how difficult it is to live fishermen and these small ones, and they are larger ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95293	Miss Plancic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95294	In your presentation, you said somewhere at the beginning that you were dissatisfied with the attention that the legislator gave to this law and this amendment given the importance of the matter he regulates. Well, you see, I think it's exactly the opposite and that this change actually shows the great desire of the proposing that this transformation that is necessary and which, unfortunately, is as painless as it is. Especially when we know that the situation could have been very different and that our negotiators at a time when they were able to take advantage of what 11 other countries of the European Union used and which managed to maintain the existing situation for their specific traditional fishing methods without bringing them into this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95295	Ante Sanader, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95296	Here's the esteemed vice president. My colleagues when I said that, then I thought of the difficult situation in small fishermen, their difficult financial situation, the otherwise state of fishing as our responsibility to always have a special understanding of those most vulnerable categories of the population. Surely these people are not, love fishing and live this life, it's a life of family, traditional many families on the coast and islands but they would like to do something else and something simpler, some easier work. And when I was saying this, I was also thinking that today is 4.12. that in about 27 days and that there is too little time left, that this law could be prepared before and with an even stronger discussion and stronger discussion about it, create the possibility that it could be the best possible for small fishermen.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95297	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, colleague Nenad Dance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95298	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. When someone from Dalmatia is talking about fishing, it's normal when it comes to fishing to talk about someone who's from Gorski Kotar, then it's a little weird but don't worry, I tried and consulted to discuss this law. Here's a little fishing for personal needs we stop valid in 1.1.2015 for about 20 days and a few days. The Internet consultation on the issue of the law lasted only 9 days, and only one remark came to a professional fisherman, and this remark concerned the rules and not this law. I said the category of small fishing goes into history comes small coastal fishing. And that's why, from the necessity of sustainable management of the biological wealth of the sea we possess. In order to do so, control will also be carried out and those who exercise that control will have to be professional persons and will have to be professionally perfected in order to be able to do so in quality and performance. The control itself, when certain irregularities are detected, will also be awarded to criminal points as well as to the recommendation of the Council of Europe. In order for all of this to go small-scale fishing for personal needs as defined by the earlier legal frameworks to cease until 1 January, all legal and technical preconditions for the application of the said mechanism should be established, which is the adoption of a Regulation on the number of holders of valid small fishing authorisations to be granted small coastal fishing privileges. It shall also set out the criteria for the issue of the necessary number of benefits for small coastal fisheries to holders of valid fishing authorisations. The Minister will establish the number of authorisations to grant small coastal fishing privileges. I was also going to ask what number it was, but in the previous debate, it was said that about 3.5 thousand of these benefits would be granted and that also a very large number of small fishermen who have fished so far would be left without these benefits. However, even this law finally allows small fishing for all those who have had it so far but it does not foresee obtaining the approval of new ones which is not good because we are getting older, in our places come younger, children and it would not be good if they did not continue the tradition of this small fishing. Article 6 which deletes paragraph 1 from Article 21 of the existing law was indeed humiliating because it literally says that a small fisherman can only be a poor and old man. In this article, I believe it is necessary to introduce it in paragraph 2 and I have already delivered it to the benches by amendment as a condition for obtaining small fishing privileges and continuous island and coastal residence for a minimum period of 15 years. You ministers today listed some new moments to be used when you're going to work I'd say the rank list of small fishermen who will get that privilege. We hope that people will be satisfied only here is probably a small number of people who will be covered by this new way of granting privileges. This would allow for the continuation of the issue of benefits for small coastal fishing for our children in the future. And tradition would also be maintained and manipulations that have occurred so far because believe me, without small fishing in the future disappears and big fishing because it is not a thing that can be learned overnight but learns and passes for generations. It is therefore necessary to enable the continuation of this activity in a legal way, primarily because of the tradition and love of Croatia as we know and most often present on videos and postcards. It is also very important that all the tools in this small fishing will be allowed so far I have not been able to find them, so it would be one of the topics for discussion because I claim that using traditional tools does not endanger the fish fund. This topic should not be dominated by professional fishermen because they use very different means that today are not truly traditional anymore. Once the waternets were much shorter and shorter, and now they're much longer and longer, they practically come to the bottom and hunt fish that... at the bottom and only the name tells them to swim and fish to the surface, not to the bottom. All small coastal fishing tools are truly traditional, used almost unchanged for years. The most important thing is that one who makes a living for something will never contribute to the disappearance of the same, regardless of the laws and regulations. So no one should be afraid that small fishermen will disappear, but they will contribute to keeping laws and regulations that must be adequate and real. Today's biggest problem is diving and catching fish with bottles, something spoken about by counterpart Ante Sanader, which has always been legally banned but often practiced, and very badly punished. Such divers destroy fish... most often fish and other marine organisms without any mercy and order, cleaning everything in front of them, and most often fish that does not run away and which lie still because it is full of eggs. It is not rare for tourists to pay for their vacations just caught in such a forbidden manner, which is inadmissible and what needs to be disabled most quickly. In Article 6 of these amendments, we say in subparagraph 11. that small fishing authorisation holders who do not meet the criteria for listing as referred to in paragraph 7 of this Article will issue annual authorisations for recreational fishing and fishing on their request... paraangals without compensation and valid authorisations for small fishing shall be suspended. It's at least something to compensate them that way. I really wish that we wouldn't, under the pretext of preserving the sea and sea ingredients that we have, that, under that excuse, destroy a tradition that's been tied up for years to people who've lived off that little and tiny fishing. Also, people who deal with tourism often know how to drive their guests to the sea on their boats so that they can catch a certain amount of fish with them to prepare together and thus enrich the tourist offer. We shouldn't be questioning things like this and this by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95299	Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95300	Thank you, Vice President. Here's a respected colleague, I'd just like to take a quick look at what you said about what you said about being just one comment at a public hearing, but the public debate was short, you said it yourself for a few days. However, I believe that we are the ones who should be in their place right now because fishermen are not people who have time to go through public debates, or follow the laws that are passed in the Assembly, or discuss on their associations they have, and they do not have the means that they can do some strong purposes and associations. However, I believe that we are the ones who now need to fight for their rights and their interests, but here is the understanding of the people, the assistant ministers I hold to know the job and that people are from the profession. And we're all you, they're paying us, and we're getting some funding from their income, that we have to elect the best conditions for them to continue to carry out this activity that they're doing, and I'm convinced that understanding here and the people of these ministerial assistants that they're going to respect what we're talking about and you're talking about, to help these people because they certainly belong to the category of those who need the most help, and that doesn't mean that they're not ignorant but they don't have time to deal with the laws and follow the law in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95301	Nenad dances, the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95302	Thank you. Well, fellow Sanader, we fully agree on that, finally from their hands and from their work, we get the same personal income here and we represent the same fishermen who, as you say, are from great work and effort, exits to the sea, storage and cleaning of that fish, don't have that much time to deal with the laws, but here's why I took this liberty and right as a representative coming from the forest, from the Gorski Kotar, to consult with people living at sea and living also from fish and to pass their thoughts on to those laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95303	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95304	Comrade Dance, I thank you for saying something that no one here has mentioned, which is a big problem and is no longer a controversial one, and I demand the strictest punishment for those, mostly tourists who pay for fish vacations as you said it is, unfortunately, true. We are truly a tourist country that we must be even more kind, friendly. However, this does not mean that we must not react. I don't think he's responding adequately. I don't think it's just a question of the law, but above all, of the bodies of the persecution, of the criminal court which, therefore, we're going in a line so as not to object to tourists. We really down the coast, especially in difficult times, really people live and survive on tourism. So many moved from their own bed to almost one bed, to extra beds to earn some money. But being tolerant to this phenomenon doesn't mean that we don't care about tourism at all, and we don't have to look to ourselves for God's sake not to mind these people. Because these people don't appreciate us. We must therefore be kind, but also heed our laws. And I'll tell you something else. In the evening, and that started with those cans when they're leaving at night, instead of going somewhere else. Of course, it's such a paying power for those tourists. You have the impression that in small bays where there have always been stickers and hedgehogs and small shells it's been turned 10, 20 times. There's no life there anymore. You have the impression that you're entering some sort of artificial pool where little rocks are piled up and sand. Life's not where they bathe. This should be sanctioned, because this little hedgehog, it glues all of it in some way, this one beauty that our coves and our beaches have. And what you're about in the introduction, what I mentioned at the outset, that's one big problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95305	Nenad dances, the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95306	Well, colleagues, Ingrid, we can't agree, not support each other in those intentions because really we're always good, polite hosts, that these guests know and exploit us, and that's theirs, shows their moral side. The bottles on your back, the guns in your hands, it's equipment, expensive equipment, and we can't afford it. However, here are those who come to us for a vacation can afford to take advantage of that right so that they can extract both fish and seabed ingredients that we love to guard as our treasure. So I believe that these inspectors who will control these small coastal fishermen will also be entertained by these fishermen who hunt under the sea to sanction them much more stringently than our people, our coastal fishermen, should be sanctioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95307	Thank you. Here comes the individual debate of Damir Rilje, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95308	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Following the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Marine Fisheries Act, I would like to present my own personal thoughts. The basis of these amendments to the laws as we have already heard and, as these materials say, for harmonising with EU legislation, in fact, two major changes are particularly evident. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. As set out in Article 6 of this Act and as indicated above, this article will set out the allocation of the same authorisations. However, during the process of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, it has been agreed that the specificity of small-scale fisheries for personal purposes will be duly respected. Considering that the transition of about 3 and a half thousand small fishermen from them is planned, about 13 and a half to 14 thousand existing from the category of small fishing for personal purposes to the category of small coastal fisheries established by the 2010 Maritime Fisheries Act and which is a limited category of economic fisheries. Small-scale fishing for personal needs as defined by the earlier legal framework ceases to exist entirely on 1 January 2015, and until that deadline all legal and technical preconditions for the application of the said mechanism should be established. This article determines that the Minister will provide for the number of holders of valid small-scale fishing authorisations to be granted small-scale coastal fishing privileges, and will lay down in that Regulation the criteria for the ranking list of participants in small-scale coastal fisheries. The holders of valid small fishing authorisations which do not meet the criteria for listing the listed list of the ministry will issue annual authorisations for recreational fishing and fishing at their request... No compensation for the paraangals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In other words, that would be this difference between three and a half thousand to the rest. E on the current state of economic fishing, especially in marine small coastal fisheries and persons who are engaged in it, and must have more than 60 years of life, is the most discussed and discussed at small fishermen' gatherings in the entire area of the island and coastal Croatia, i.e. in Dalmatia, Istria and Kvarner. Still, this seems to take the most away from the opportunities of fishing families whose small-scale fishing is a fundamental source of life. In addition to the tradition of fishing that has been nurtured and transferred from the ancestors to the descendants in these parts of Croatia for centuries. I think it is necessary to highlight the social importance of this issue and to extend the rights to young people and families who have remained living on islands as well as other social categories in the coast while respecting criteria and age and, of course, censorship of appropriate incomes. Many of them remind that it is necessary to make a country-wide decision on the definition of how to continue small coastal fishing in the Croatian Adriatic, as well as the need for better engagement and advertising of the restoring ministry. Experts and interested public in Croatian sea fishing interprets how small sea coastal fishing can be re-purposed to recreational fishing, with the possibility of using nets of barns especially on our islands. They point out that this can only be achieved with a good desire and help from the ministry and other relevant state institutions. Small fishermen point out that the problem is that the relevant Croatian institutions have not correctly stated whether they are sufficiently engaged, and those who are referred to this problem mention that small coastal fishing was also a synonym of sea fishermen, which is still being denied by experts from this domain. They say that this category cannot be seen in general and based on a small part of small fishermen. They also remind that according to some latest data in the Croatian Adriatic, as I have already said, there are about 13.5 to 14 thousand small sea coastal fishermen who could catch up to 5 kg of fish a day. There are also interpretations that they will be able to fish part of that quantity in small sea coastal fishing and part in sports recreational fishing, of course under the legal conditions provided for. However, it is claimed that the same number of participants will continue to be in small sea coastal fisheries in which each will be able to catch the same amount of fish as before. So a total of about 5 kg a day. But there is also an additional problem for a fish fund that tortures small fishermen because nets will no longer be allowed to fish for certain fish species. Many of them say the problem is that small sea fishing is being transferred to sports recreational fishing in one part of those who will not be allowed. According to some statistics in the Adriatic, there are about 40,000 fishermen in small sea coastal fishing on the coastal coastal coastal coastal coastal coastal coastal coastal coastal coastal coastal coastal coastal coastal areas, while sports recreationals are more than 80,000 of which only about 60% have an appropriate license. There are claims made by the expert public that the abolition of small-scale fishing against some interpretations is not strictly related to EU regulations. It is true, though, that the EU only knows economic and sports recreational fishing, not other categories. However, what is forgotten is that in the EU, individual countries, such as Greece, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, Sweden, allow recreational fishing using nets of 150m to 210m. So it's similar to our little fishing where the length of fishing nets is limited to 200 meters long. Such fishing shall be allowed to local residents for their purposes but without the possibility of selling catches. Therefore, it is clear that small fishing exists in the EU but is undermining recreation. The claim that the elimination of small fishing will contribute to the recovery of the fish population and other marine organisms is not exactly an argument. Namely, all current small fishermen who have the option of catching up to 5 kg of fish will be transferred either to small coastal fisheries if they meet the specified conditions or to sports recreation. Thus, even after the elimination of small fishing, there will still be the exact same number of participants in fishing that each of them will be able to catch the same up to 5 kg of fish around but will have to do so with other tools. So the fishing effort will remain the same and no benefit per large fish population will be. In addition, the question of the adverse effects of the transfer of catches from nets to learning tools is raised in relation to certain fish species. It would indeed be necessary to provide additional efforts to bring the small fisheries functioning rules in line with both the Republic of Croatia and the legal frameworks but certainly also to the wider interest of the coastal population on the islands as far as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95309	Thank you. We have another individual debate over 10 minutes. Dear Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95310	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with his associates. So this afternoon's debate on the amendments to the Marine Fisheries Act in a large part, although few of us are speakers, corresponds to the debate that was held when the Law on Marine Fisheries was passed and the main remarks made in the debate itself are approximately the same as those brought about when the basic law was passed. I'll in my debate look back at two things. One will refer to current developments in the exploitation and exploration of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic and the other on small coastal fisheries, which will enter into force on 1 January. So, I would just like to say that fishing is an extremely important economic activity, that on average about 55 thousand tonnes of fish in Croatia are caught on average, and of that, according to information that I received somewhere around $500 million, Croatia is exporting caught fish, which is not really negligible activity in Croatia. Therefore, it is very important to take care of this activity because for us living on islands and by the sea it is a very important segment of economic activity and as Mr Rilje used to say not only that it is an economic activity but with certain activities on the islands and along the coast it is often an additional source of income that allows survival as you said on the islands and on the coast. When I said that I would look back on the part relating to hydrocarbon research and exploitation, I expected the Ministry of Agriculture to have a more powerful influence as a resolute fisheries segment ministry in the definition of research fields. In fact, you ministers know very well that one of the fields of investigation in which research could be done, and later, the exploitation of hydrocarbons. gas or oil and apple boiler space. The apple cauldron is the highest natural habitat in the Adriatic Sea, including the eastern and western Adriatic coast, and in that part is the competent ministry. In doing so, I do not have the need for the Ministry of Environmental Protection to be more powerful in defending the conservation of this natural resource, as I said the most important fish habitat in the Adriatic. It is unacceptable that this ministry, therefore, of agriculture, along with the Ministry of Environmental Protection, does not care about defending the ecological system and biodiversity of the Adriatic, which requires a prerequisite for quality fishing on the Adriatic. Before a strategic environmental impact assessment is made, which would then certainly have defined the behaviour of the apple cauldron. Therefore, no competition could be opened for hydrocarbon research in the apple cauldron before a strategic environmental impact assessment could be made that would certainly determine the specific conditions of protection and treatment in that part of the Adriatic. I therefore believe that this ministry should not be missed, especially this should not have been missed by the Ministry of Environmental and Nature Protection and ordered the Agency for Hydrocarbons to open a tender only after a strategic environmental impact assessment has been made which, then, a strategic study, would have prescribed the conditions and opportunities for research and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. This is how it turns out, after we finished the competition today we heard and what all the companies in the world have reported and who are interested in the exploration of hydrocarbons, the impression is that the strategic study that is coming... is just a document that will cover the competition that has already been defined and which has already been solved. I have already said that, I am afraid that it is not possible to carry out research and exploitation in a certain way if the strategic environmental impact assessment shows that it is precisely the field to which one of the world's oil companies appears, because this strategic environmental impact assessment will define that this field, in this field such research must not be carried out either because it is an apple cauldron or for the reason that one of these fields extends across the ecological network of nature 2000 which we have already established when Croatia enters into full-fledged EU membership. So that's one segment I should have said to me seems to be the Ministry of Agriculture. On the other hand, I join all colleagues who spoke about protection and rapid state for all licence users or future privileges for small coastal fishing. Mr. Rilje said that according to his data, about 13,000 such users are involved in small fishing. I was just talking about 10 grand. This information is probably correct because almost a few island or island households are not in one way or another user of a small fishing permit. The fact that I am based on this law is a step towards the existing law. In my opinion, this is one step, but for all those users of the fishing license, it's not enough. I will during the debate, I wrote you and the amendment, I hold that in a different way you should approach solving the possibility of further carrying out small coastal fishing. Small coastal fishing, as already said, is one of the ways of surviving on Croatian islands, even in the coastal part of Croatia, but I especially want to single out on Croatian islands where the terrible depopulation is known. And otherwise in the Republic of Croatia the depopulation population is going towards all areas, but the islands are again in a certain way specific in view of their position. So, not only is this a way of surviving it's one traditional way of life to have a little regret, a little boat, have some kind of net, throw etc. and of that in a certain way I said live. Therefore, the clear dissatisfaction of islanders who have reacted in this way not now and before, so I'm not saying that, that this way of solving, is the explosiveness of this government and Mr. Minister, I believe that the failures have been before so that he would not want to exculpate anyone. Responsibilities for what could have happened, but I believe that it is now up to the Government to have a commitment and a tool to access, in a certain way, more quality access to these users' small fishing licenses. I believe that it is possible, in the further work of the Government and this House, to allow all those who have had a license for small fishing to take advantage of small coastal fishing from 1 January. So all those who had to continue to carry out these activities. And on the other hand, the privilege of being portable. I am convinced that out of these 13,000 users of the license for small fishing are generally that or most of the elderly, which means after their death practically this privilege is not possible. I believe that, with certain criteria prescribed by the minister, it can be given to their heirs or to those who are interested and who thus live on Croatian islands and in the coastal part of Croatia. So, on the one hand, to determine how not to, that all those who are users of this permit continue to carry out this activity on the one hand. On the other hand, to allow their successors to benefit from the same privilege later if they are clearly interested and to make sure that there are no abuses prescribed by the minister. In this way, I hold in order to allow for these difficult moments, in a crisis that is not a very insignificant source of income and the possibility of survival to continue to deal with this activity and to carry out this activity. This way, out of the system will remain somewhere around 8,9 thousand Croatian citizens who were able to meet their life needs in this way, and the possibility given to them through performing recreational fishing and fishing to natural paragons do not think it will be what will satisfy them because these tools are not the same as they are prescribed in the possibility of small coastal fishing. In this respect, Mr. Minister, given that under EU legislation... economic fishing and recreational fishing are possible. I don't see that we can't if there aren't any other reasons through recreational fishing to subdue all those small fishing permits users who are doing the same activity today. It probably takes a little more uptake, and I believe that in this way many users of the current small fishing licence would find their way of surviving on Croatian islands and on the Croatian coast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95311	The completed minutes of this debate belong to the Minister of Agriculture, respected by Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95312	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I listened closely to all your discussions and I will try not to even use all the time I have in a good way to respond to most of the debate. I think we're actually going to solve this dilemma about 13.5 14 or 10 grand, and it's about 9,600. Part of those who had... simple or unpaid or termination of activity exited from the register have about 9,600 of them. Dear counterpart Bacic is very difficult to give all 9.600 can continue to work in the same way and with the same tools if we have agreed in the phase of negotiations and accession and have committed ourselves to reducing that number to 3.5 thousand people who can work. Another thing you'd like to fix, I heard in this House that it was an important source of income and budgeting, no, all those who hunted and sold fish were in serious violation. It is only this change of law that gives us the possibility that 5kg in this category of small coastal fisheries can be marketed under controlled conditions. All those who worked were working black and stealing from this country. So it can't be a source of income as well as a thesis that representing the interests of those people who are filling the state budget. It was a little fishing for personal purposes. Once again, we translate the category of small fishing for personal purposes into category 3.5 thousand small coastal fisheries users who will have the opportunity to place part of their catches under controlled and transparent conditions on the market. When we're actually talking about protecting the interest and how the sector or the Czech, and we're talking about the economic categories of fishing all these years, you should have heard about this category in professional organisations or in the chamber of crafts and in the Chamber of Commerce how fishermen really view this category. We have done the maximum possible in this way to continue or deal with this activity under transparent criteria, and here I now have to correct one thesis that appears on several occasions to me in your written amendment, I think the ambiguity of the whole item is deleted. The 60-year limit no longer exists we have it in the bill to delete the whole paragraph 1 in that article, and the criteria are combined both age and space and defenders and disabled and all those categories that are, so that one who is much younger by age but in combination with residence... the disability of defenders and the rest is among these 3.5 thousand who will be licensed. Why didn't we make it portable? So this 9,600 we're going to have a ranking list and 3,500 that's going to go in, and the moment someone comes out of that category, we have the one below the lines that didn't satisfy at that point, they're 3,501, 7, 10, and that way, the 15th is going to be able to deal with this category of fishing. If we make it portable, we cement the situation once we give 3,500 perks de facto that it remains only for those 3,500 families for all time. We think we're giving way to a much wider circle. Since the remarks that were still may seem to me only to me to Article 9 that you had additional costs for the education of employees or authorised persons of other authorised persons of the maritime departments, police officers, customs officers and authorised persons of the coast guard to conduct surveillance, so far these persons have had to take part in the state’s professional fallout, come to Zagreb, pay 700 kuna and more. In this way and this bill, we have designed a model of education that will take place in their hometowns at no financial cost for those persons who will receive the possibility of inspection supervision. Diving clubs were a question, the Labour Act simple economic activity of diving clubs, regardless of their expertise and skills, does not allow them to deal with this economic activity. We've responded intolerably. The development of infringements is expected to be under way, i.e. amendments to some other regulations related to the common fisheries policy. We will implement them in further review of the violations in the next amendment of the law but if we do a new law in the next year when we have these EU regulations, then we will also have parliament to implement them with a class of infringements. It seems to me that respected colleague Anticevic has said that insufficient or always insufficient enough inspection supervision, I agree and inspection services in fisheries will further strengthen, strengthen, make protection and our wealth with which we are proud of our Adriatic and through better and more effective work of inspection service. For this, we will use the significant resources available to us in the next period from the EU budget. I'm talking almost 30 million euros in the next period of surveillance and control. It is also an announcement that we will introduce drones that we will use along with other resources to protect our fishing potential, or the wealth of the sea. Here in the few shortest items I tried to explain or clarify what was problematic in the debates. I thank you for your constructive discussion. I just have to finally notice that I've never been to the defense of one of my laws this short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95313	Thank you. Now we'll hear four more lines. First of all, the respected Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95314	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I have not participated in the negotiations in the fisheries chapter, although I am in the section relating to maritime good and seaports, but I have information that in these fisheries negotiations is not mentioned anywhere in the words of the number 3.5 thousand permits for small island fishing, so it is not difficult to check, I will try to check up on the amendment when you reply to the amendments. I understand the Ceh of fishermen performing economic fishing, I understand them although what Mr. Rilje said was the question of whether fishing effort will be reduced when it is now issued 3.5 thousand perks for small coastal fishing and all others transferred to recreational fishing, the question is what it will be and whether it will really reduce that competition that is allegedly afraid of the Ceh of fishermen although I do not see in this competition because they are still today, operating with 9600 licenses for small fishing. And why we carry, why I think we should allow the transfer of benefits for small coastal fishing. The natural route will reduce the clear number of participants in small coastal fisheries. The question is what will happen to these many boats, numerous fishing gears in the families in which these boats and these fishing gears exist today. Why should it not be possible through a rule that is in your hands that these boats, this fishing gear that has been collected for decades, have been created to remain on the sidelines and not allow their successors who also meet the conditions that you prescribe to continue small coastal fishing. So I ask you to look at this and try to do everything to make it possible for both the islanders and all those who live out of it to continue to leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95315	The replica matches Minister Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95316	Thank you, dear Vice President. The Honored colleague, the accession contract, stands precisely for 3,5 thousand vessels or registered employees in this form of fishing. I would love to be a larger number but unfortunately it is so negotiated, it is our obligation and in fact by the time this law is passed we have made it possible for all of them to still be able to deal with existing regulations, now it is simply our obligation to combine these by us with the best parameters for determining them that will continue to deal with small coastal fisheries in a way that is good and quality-regulated of the whole activity. Compensation measures I listed, all those who cannot continue to deal with small coastal fishing will be able to have annual recreational fishing permits, will be able to have... no fee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Once again we stand at the possibility that all of these 9600 or there will be relatively maybe a smaller number of meanings when they are registered will be on a certain ranking list and if they do not enter between 3.5 thousand they should be given the opportunity for those who go out to continue their activities. The difference is only one, a single network of standoffs 200 meters. If we're talking about personal needs, if we're saying that so far it's been a source of income or easier life with tradition, culture and everything else that those who have dealt with this kind of fisheries have had, then there's no big difference. We're just putting order into one system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95317	Second replica of the esteemed Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95318	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear Minister, I'm just here, I found the information that you did in 2007. Ten thousand and later from the Cache of Fishermen, that's the same thing, and in a few places I found it, so then I think I can use it as much as I can. But that's probably yours. ... As far as I know, you use a lot of people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's 5kg, you've been talking about 5kg of resales and something black like that you've said, all the current little fishermen who have a license about it was a bill that would happen on average at 5kg of fish a day and what would happen with the removal of that category. Of course, after that suspension, it will be given to those who will be engaged in recreational fishing only to catch so many fish and, in fact, the real nigger is in recreational fishing. Because there's a large number of people I'm guessing don't have a license but here's what I wouldn't want to talk too much about, but according to some of the data that I came up with, it's pretty much like that and there's a lot of them. And just before we heard from the conversation under the recreation you can say a lot from the rifle to everything else, to the touristic what fish is said to be fished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95319	A new replica of Nenad Dances.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95320	It's fine, it's fine, I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Minister, it may have been through the debate of that 60 years, it is clear to me that this is being abolished in Article 21(1), and I am not, but my intensity is also the amendment that I have made that young people can also be small coastal fishermen who will continue the tradition of their fathers and who will, because that is what this fishing is all about. It is now not a catch of 5, 6, 10kg of fish, but a tradition of one which, where Croatia is recognised, will also be recognised by it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95321	And the last replica of the esteemed Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95322	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, here's how you reacted a little bit to this budget charge, and I said it was a budget charge, and I didn't think they'd been making any money until now when they were hunting those fishes, and then they'd have a lot of money, and they'd be charging and saving the budget. But they certainly helped their home budget with their catch, and then they were able to pay all the obligations to the state from other examples. And I think unfortunately we have a lot of those who have yachts, fairies, planes that we need to pursue as the state of these little fishermen and those, they're the last ones in the tail on which we need to train strictness. When we work hard on what needs to be done, it's easy, and the fishermen will get rid of it themselves. But, well, I welcome the normal introduction of every order and there's no alternative. You didn't answer, I didn't understand or didn't hear, you didn't answer this for years. Is there a possibility that it would be a 60-year limit, not to be given to younger pensioners, or to people who don't meet that income censorship that they can get these permits and that they can deal with it, and that this distribution should give these fines a little bit so that they don't have to be all in one pile, those 2 to 15 grand to be some 2-3 groups, so for those minor violations, give less punishment because judges for violations are left with this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95323	Minister Jakovina answers the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95324	My dear colleague, I must speak a little slower then. I didn't react too badly, but I even welcome today's debate on this law. I've said it again, we've already got a degree in penalties, and they'll be in line with the new regulation, so we'll probably have a bigger build-up of the fines. And as for the censorship of years or years, that whole item is deleted. The first paragraph of Article 21 is deleted for those 60 years because it is no longer a criterion for obtaining but we have said that the criterion will actually be linked to more criteria that it will set. This is not only the age limit and the property censorship, but it is for us, it will also be in terms of residence and age and potential disability, defence status, property status and social status. These are all the criteria on which it will be possible to come out, to get a license. 60 years no longer, it's something that was in the old law and we move from Article 21 by deleting the whole first sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95325	Thank you. I would like to thank Minister Jakovini, colleagues and colleagues for participating in the debate. We'll stop working now. Tomorrow, as announced, we will discuss points 39 and 40. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95326	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marine Fisheries, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 767. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by a representative of Nenad Dance and representative Branko Bačić. I'd like a representative of the government, a respected Snježana Spain, Deputy Minister of Agriculture to be shown about the amendment to Nenada Plesa, a representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95327	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The amendment shall not be accepted with the following explanation. The proposed amendment to Articles 21 and 3 of paragraph 1 of the applicable law shall be put out of force so that property censorships and years of life of 60 years are no longer a condition for obtaining and benefiting small coastal fisheries.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95328	The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative of Nenad Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95329	I, the proposed amendment clearly states that under the 1st condition for obtaining small coastal fishing privileges is to have valid authorisation and valid authorisation for persons over 60, 65 years of age. With the proposed amendment, I wanted this tradition to be left to the younger ones, because old fishermen are old and it is traditional and goes from knee to knee. If there won't be small fishermen, there won't be any big fishermen. And that's why I proposed this law. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95330	Thank you very much. I ask that we vote on the amendment of the honourable representative, Nenad Dance, which the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We are going to the amendment of the respected representative Branko Bačić to Article 21(1), etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95331	The amendment shall not be accepted with the following explanation. The proposed amendment to Articles 21 and 3 of paragraph 1 of the applicable law shall be put out of force so that the property censorship and the years of life of 60 years are no longer a condition for obtaining small coastal fishing privileges. The advantage for small coastal fisheries is unsustainable for the reason that those who will not be on the list of 3500 carriers who will switch to small coastal fisheries will be allowed to enter that category in the future, given the absence of the activity of the existing holder of the small coastal fisheries benefits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-04-0.u95332	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. There is no respected applicant present for Amendment Branko Bačić. Please vote on the amendment of fellow Bačić, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law and please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of the vote is 105 votes for, 3 abstentions and 3 against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Marine Fisheries in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
