ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71933	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day. We're moving on with the session. A colleague, Vuksic. Can we get started? We will discuss - Report on the implementation of the official development aid to the Republic of Croatia abroad for 2012 Report submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the material. The hearing was conducted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and his report was received at the session. The opening report will be explained by Deputy Prime Minister, Foreign and European Affairs Minister Mrs Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71934	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, allow me to say a few words first of all about this report, about official development aid. I must say one of ours, as it would say, liebblings projects, or projects that we believe should be brought from a relative background as far as possible to the central position of Croatian foreign policy. Of course, it's not something special that we are, a unique case that we have decided so. It is a growing trend for official development aid to be used as an instrument and to build the country's identity in international relations and to establish communication with individual countries and as some kind of introduction to economic and political relations. So, what was our goal is to gradually place official development aid in the function of Croatian foreign policy and enable synergy of action and official development assistance with our second and political communication and economic objectives on the international agenda. On this point, we have directed or directed ourselves in the choice of countries with which we work through the instrument of official development aid in line with what is regionally or geographically seen and the priorities of our foreign policy, so those areas that are important for the stability or economic co-operation of the Republic of Croatia, on the other hand, and those areas in which we can have a comparative impact. So, as far as the region is concerned, our priorities are the region of Southeast Europe, we always repeat, so Croatia is part of three major European and also European African, let's say regions, so Central Europe, the Mediterranean and the Western Balkans or the Balkans or Southeast Europe. However, where we have a comparative advantage as far as this instrument is concerned, on the one hand, Southeast Europe or the Western Balkans, on the other hand, the Mediterranean, firstly the Southern Mediterranean, is unusually important to us for many reasons, including migration reasons, one of the European topics, but there is Croatia in, if not first, then secondly, if we take Italy in the first row, the Middle East and then, most of all, a country that we consider to be potentially in the near future or already could be of interest to Croatia either economically, so firstly, I must say economically, and then politically. Croatia, as you know, is a young donor in official development aid, we have been the recipient of official development aid for many years, and then we have become donors, this is me thinking the fourth report of this kind. So, in this report, Croatia is something that is different and which is our goal, although we have not yet fully realised, what is different than before is that this report is united and shown in one place what did not just go through the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs but also what was given or what was organised through other ministries. In fact, Croatia participates in official development assistance through the Ministry of Infrastructure and Economy and Health and Education, but very often it has not been shown in one place. Our goal is to try to coordinate this development aid, firstly to have it shown in one place and second that it makes sense, so that the ministries co-ordinate the projects and investments they provide in this regard, i.e. in which they participate. In addition to the traditional orientation of official development aid in the countries of South East Europe which were also priority countries of development cooperation, it primarily refers to BiH, we have used and established even within the framework of the Ministry of Transition Processes, which we call the Centre of Excellence, we have established an institution that brings together our people who participated in the negotiations and in implementing EU negotiations reforms. As you know, we believe that this was not only a path to membership, but also an experience of building a state, building institutions in post-conflict conditions and that from that point of view it is interesting for countries in the region. Croatia is the first post-conflict state or country to enter the EU except, of course, for the founding countries but it was long ago, which has experience of adapting institutions post-conflictly. This also applies to countries in the region but also to some countries, for example, the Southern Mediterranean and beyond, which do not enter the EU but have a need to build institutions. We believe that this is one to say an intellectual product, a kind of knowledge that our experts involved in these processes have and we also participate in official development aid, so this is an integral part of our official development aid. During this period, we too had over 2,000 students, these were civil servants from countries in the region primarily in BiH on different topics, from integrated border management, phytosanitary measures, justice, various reforms and the construction of institutions with which we had experience, which through our Centre of Excellence in this period passed on to countries in the region but also to some countries in the Middle East, for example interethnic dialogue in Palestine, North Africa, Marco, Tunisia, Libya and space and communication, since there is an NGO run by one of our citizens, we accidentally discovered it when we turned there, which leads one of our citizens to Myanmar in Burma. We started a project of some kind of public health and, on the other hand, empowering women in a society that deals with AIDS and health education. In these three examples you see about the spectrum of our engagement, so you see on one side of the region, it's obvious. The region is our first direct environment, the second direct stability of the country stemming from the stability of the region. And our very direct engagement is to encourage and transfer knowledge to countries in the region so that those who head towards EU membership as soon as possible and to stabilise not only themselves and reform but also stabilise our immediate environment. The second part is the southern Mediterranean, let's also say the wider neighborhood, a neighborhood that is very turbulent and that Europe sees as the main potential space-hazard of mass immigration and what we promote is an attempt to deal with this problem of immigration at the source. So not only do we address asylums and the different very strict measures that the EU has here but try to develop conditions to reduce the pressure on immigration from where people come from. And thirdly, these dotted points are to say countries, countries around the world that are opening up which in perspective are unusually economically interesting for a number of reasons why I am now not entering the population of raw materials in fact of natural wealth, and on the other hand, the need for all possible from infrastructure to knowledge that, through development aid, we establish communication at an early stage and then we open and maintain that communication and develop it through cooperation and in the economy then and in other areas. The profiling of development aid was also done by the logic that our comparative advantages are and where the niches in which Croatia can use for itself and specific knowledge are certainly one of such comparative advantages. It is also recognised in European frameworks and globally and you will see in this report that Croatia is involved in something called "cup matches" it is one way to say the register that works in the United Nations, the register of specific knowledge and experiences that have different countries in the world and that can be used in situations of crisis. For example, demining is one such, such specific knowledge. Building institutions in post-conflict situations is such a specific knowledge. So a series of things that Croatia has because of the type of experience it has gone through where it has been used to get into this register of specific knowledge that is then activated in crisis situations and the country participates with its knowledge and help. The national policy of development cooperation and humanitarian assistance is in line with both the European Union and we are coming to a great deal, given that the component of our membership is also a very large part of the money Croatia gives for development and humanitarian assistance at European level, at European level, within its participation in the European budget. So it is also another form of participation in the European budget. And from that point of view, it is very important for us to have a clear policy then and to influence the definition of the priorities of the European Union when it comes to development and humanitarian assistance because it is in our interest to direct it in that direction, in that type of projects and in those countries that are relevant to us according to these criteria that I have originally presented to you. So since we're giving big money to us, it's very important that we take part in it. What we aim at is to strengthen the development partnership with other donors and partner countries, in other words, that synergy in those countries that we have chosen as our target countries for development aid we act as synergy as possible with the other participating countries. Let me say, how much longer do I have, more or less I'm done... Yeah, well, then I can, so let me say something about volume and a little bit more detail about areas or sectors where we provide this official development aid. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So in 2012 for which this report is and this report was in the government I think in November last year and now we will hope to see a relatively fast report for 2013, so in 2012, about 16.5 million euros were allocated to, through official development aid. Compared to the previous reporting period, this represents an increase. But when you look at the more detailed data, you'll see that it's actually not an increase compared to 2011 but rather a record to say so. So what I said at the beginning of better coordination and insight into everything that goes as official development aid, not only through the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs but also through all other ministries. It's happened before, but it wasn't gathered in one place. So he wasn't so clear about what was going on. So it stays at the same level, representing 0.03% of gross national income. It is far below what we have in some way obligations in the European frameworks. And it is almost certain that we will not be able to achieve that level in view of the financial situation that level of participation of official development aid in the gross national income foreseen for us by European institutions. But for now, we're actually trying to keep it at least at that level that it was also directed at those parts and those projects that we think are particularly important, which we find particularly important. You will see that we have also gone from one concept of high fragmentation to a concept of concentration in several key areas and projects. Also much clearer and more defined process of accounting and information on project implementation, phases and project completion. The European Commission has expressed expectations for Croatia to reach the level of individualisation for development aid from 0.33% of gross national income by 2015, which would be about 10 times what we are now devoting in the real sense. This would mean a detachment of more than billions of kuna and, unfortunately, new reasons at this point will not be possible. We plan to continue in those frameworks that you see here roughly for 2012. As far as geographical priorities are concerned, JI Europe is the recipient of 80% of the total development aid Croatia is giving. In the first place, BiH is a priority programme country leaving 33.73% of the total official development aid. Then, Afghanistan, where you remember, the Parliament sent 350 at the moment when we had the most soldiers in Afghanistan, 350 of our soldiers who had a great reputation there and we are and that's one of the instruments that we use is that where our peacekeeping forces, where our soldiers are involved in the peace forces, that we have civil, development or humanitarian projects in that place, so that we act synergy in these places and military and civilian projects at the points where our army is in peacekeeping missions. So 4% is Afghanistan, so we have the main concentration in Afghanistan on projects related to women and girls, education, health and one project from entrepreneurship, so education of women and gathering women in carpet production, a school and library for girls and building one hospital training, so a small hospital where the recipient will be trained. One specific project, so-called the recipient in the community, the mortality of mothers and newborns is huge in Afghanistan and this is one project that we are working with Afghan authorities and if it turns out to be successful, there is the interest of many countries to engage in this project and to create a network of such training hospitals in Afghanistan. If you're interested, I can say something more specific later. The Middle East 4% and more national cooperation projects 8%. Croatia is ranked eighth in BiH's largest donors, following the European Union, the United States, Sweden, Germany, UNDP, Switzerland and Norway. The main areas in which we develop official development aid projects are education, health and infrastructure, so these are three areas where most of the official development aid goes away. A shift was also made in the perception of Croatian development aid as purely ethnically colored, dialogue with central authorities was established and Croatia joined the Donor Coordination Forum at the invitation of central authorities in BiH. So we've been giving big money so far, we haven't been officially admitted, so internationally recognized and involved in this donor coordination forum. This has now been done and Croatia's policy as is known to be a stable functioning BiH and assistance leading in this direction. In this context, one of the initiatives, but not in the official development aid that we now have, is the project of designing a special model of BiH's entry into the European Union, i.e. the start of the process for joining the European Union. The following periods plan to continue supporting democratisation and strengthening civil awareness, human rights protection, health-related, infrastructure and education projects we have been working on in BiH and the transfer of knowledge we have been working on for two years, transfer of knowledge from reforms and the construction of institutions that we transfer to civil servants. As regards sectoral priorities, Croatia's development cooperation and assistance is focused on three priority directions: education, health and social and economic development, but in fact infrastructure as an economic part and education for democratic processes such as this social part. 156 bilateral, regional and multilateral projects were implemented, representing a certain reduction compared to the year before 2011 when approximately 4.5 times higher. This has contributed to reducing the quality of the projects, so we've had those famous fence painting projects, fences for which I don't know how many times, so we've had multiple purchases of the same things every year that aren't expendable, etc. We united this, made a transparent procedure and focused on much larger and more significant projects. This is not only in line with our commitment, but also with the world principles on the effectiveness of development aid in all international documents. The share of bilateral official development aid amounted to around 63% of the total development aid. So 63% were bilateral and 32% were through different multilateral organisations and institutions. Bilateral assistance is aimed at a total of 19 countries. It's more or less continuous compared to 2011. Progress in reducing dispersion is evident, i.e. in the fragmentation and aid to the mass of projects. Because before that, Croatia participated in official development aid in 2010 in 40 countries in total. Despite this progress in reducing dispersion, we believe that additional efforts need to be made to guide and help Croatia with key programming countries, as well as that it is important to continue rounding the programme, which then increases the efficiency and visibility of such projects that go through official development aid. 2012 was the year when we significantly strengthened the national coordination of this type of aid. The presidency of national co-ordination was raised at the ministry level. In addition to members and deputies of an inter-resor working group at the level of the assistants in each competent authority, a contact point or contact person for the area of development cooperation at the operational level shall be designated in each body of the State administration which has some kind of development assistance. And in this report, for the first time since we've ever had a demonstration, I think there's still progress here, but we have a demonstration of official development aid through all the bodies of the state administration, so through anyone who participates in development aid and humanitarian aid. So I'm going to say a few words about humanitarian aid There he is. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Please bring the end, so you will during the debate.]] The humanitarian aid projects focused on three thematic areas. The first is effective and timely protection in providing assistance to the most vulnerable groups exposed to the crisis primarily of women and children. The second sector is humanitarian demining. And thirdly, rehabilitation of victims of humanitarian crises primarily children that we worked mostly in Croatia where we brought children from these areas. Here's my thanks. I'll stop there, so I can eventually say a few more words if there's anything you're particularly interested in in this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71935	Thank you very much. The rapporteurs of the Committee on Foreign Policy. I'm sorry, we have four replicas. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71936	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam Minister. You stated that official development aid is a function of building the identity of Croatian foreign policy which I really agree with. And you also stated that we are a young donor, because Croatia is the first post conflicting as you said the state that has experience and knowledge. It's true we have experience, we have knowledge. But unlike other countries that may have experience, we also have a special success in the only successful peacekeeping mission that took place in Eastern Slavonia. So, you're looking for ways to help others who are in conflict you can offer over 200 people who, who have both experience and success and are trained to provide assistance in establishing a transitional police force, in establishing a normalisation of life, in establishing a process of returning exile. So these are all things that you can use with very small means and with a very big effect. We could also open a peace-making school in Croatia, thus putting Croatia in the creator of peace with the experience that Croatia has. Why would a peace-making school for crisis situations be in Austria, not Croatia, for example. Here are my suggestions to contribute to this report of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71937	Replica reply, Deputy Prime Minister Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71938	Thank you very much. It's true, that's what we do. So, the peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Podunje in which you are and have participated is certainly one of the topics where we use both people and knowledge that technically participated in using them in situations and countries where this is important, interesting or relevant, which the post is conflicting and in this respect we had not only interests but also made a catalogue of specific knowledge related to it. We've also had cross-border projects, and we'll still have cross-border projects exactly what you mentioned about civic education, amongst ethnic reconciliations. Both Israelis and Palestinians participated in such a project. So it is a specific Croatian knowledge and we use it and we will continue to use it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71939	Ante Babic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71940	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In your report, respected foreign ministers in this implementation, you burned about building the identity of the Republic of Croatia in international relations, and you said that we have a clear policy on how well I understand and influence EU policies related to the granting of development assistance. What I want and what I saw is actually in this report, although it's 2012 and it's related to the BIH that you spent two, three sentences and you said that some 33% of the biggest development aid was related to the BIH and you mentioned three segments through education, health and infrastructure used for the BIH, although this report also states about freedom and security in the BIH. Of course, recent or current events in the BIH certainly warn and warn both you and all of us that the Republic of Croatia must have its clear position regarding the BIH. Following this, I am sure that your policy, the politics of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the BIH, must be for the full constitutional legal equality of the Croatian people with the other two constituent nations in the BIH and no institutional solution that does not come from that standard should certainly not be unacceptable to you either. Following this, you received messages from the EU that the Republic of Croatia must be actively involved in these solutions, so we also welcomed the departure of Prime Minister Milanovic to these events in Mostar, and I think it must be your goal, especially if we know the position of Croats in the BIH as well as the first-degree verdict of six Croats from the BIH, hoping and we are confident that the second-degree will not be confirmed, so I believe that you will also...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71941	Replica reply, Deputy Prime Minister Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71942	Thank you very much. As you have seen and as shown from the report from my presentation, so the largest part of our official development aid goes to the BIH, there is a certain logic since BIH is our first neighbour, since the country with which we have over 1000 km of border, since the country we consider to be absolutely bound by stability and affecting the stability of the Republic of Croatia and on this topic there is, I would say this is one topic on which we can potentially have a rational but relatively large impact and within the European institutions. The fact that Prime Minister Milanovic went to Mostar at the moment he left was and remains in the post of preventing that the dissatisfaction that has its foundation really and in a difficult social situation does not turn into an ethical conflict which would be tragic for all parties and therefore it is also something that Croatia considers important. Our policy as far as the BIH is concerned is that this is a European issue, in other words, that Europe and it can and must be the one that will lead the process of gradually approaching the EUBiH and that, instead of setting certain preconditions of the BIH to start at least this pre-accession process, to design a specific process for the BIH that would allow a specific path towards full membership and all problems are then solved in the context of this specially designed BIH road to Europe. Here it is, we in this respect have, we are actually in the process of launching and one debate in the European frameworks on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71943	Thank you. There's a time measurement on the screen, so I'd like to ask that within two minutes there be a replica and a response. Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71944	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs. On page 6 of this report, the European Commission has expressed expectations that the Republic of Croatia will reach the level of detachment for the development aid foreseen by the EU for new member states of 0.33% of gross national income, which in 2015 would amount to a billion 61 million and 877 thousand and 300 kuna by the end of this year. But you'll have a chance to answer, so stay out of my line. From your report it is visible on page 22 that total official development aid is 125 million kuna. Is this recommendation just one binding, non-binding, loose or how this recommendation came out by the European Commission that Croatia, or a new Member State, stands out 0.33% of gross income or billions of kuna by 2015 whether we have to respect or can go differently in view of the situation, the economic situation, the economic situation in which Croatia is presently.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71945	Replica response, Vice President Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71946	... It is optional, we will have 0.11% when the sum of what we give ourselves and what we give through the EU budget is added. [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71947	Thank you. Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71948	Dear Ministers of Foreign and European Affairs. I wanted to ask a similar question, as Mr Grubisic asked. It is certainly more pleasant and humane to be a donor than to receive help, it is always and whenever you are in such a position is a more pleasant position. I'm interested in that, so there are no sanctions for Croatia if we don't meet the forecasts that we should give a billion kuna, by which criteria is funded? Let me get this straight. What do we choose for that money? And 120 million kunas as much as we have given for Croatia, very much and I am quite agreeing that we should give other assistance. And very important are the criteria to which this assistance is given. And I don't think you've answered Mrs. Vesni Škare-Ozbolt's question why not open a peace school in Croatia, because for the identity of Croatia it would certainly be significant, and in the rest we would be in a proactive position and I think that Croatia also has human resources, which is the most important thing for such an undertaking in order to certainly improve our state position, our image in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71949	Reply to the replica of Deputy Prime Minister Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71950	Thank you very much. The Peace School is a great, beautiful and good idea and it should, but it is not official development aid, so it must open up within some other projects and it would be good because I think it is a good, interesting and important data and it also speaks well of our society that 86% of the population of the Republic of Croatia supports official development aid, so it wants us to have development aid, thinks it is good and supports development aid. The criteria are mostly geographical, those that I mentioned to you, so these interests are criteria and areas, as I said we concentrate here, except in the region where there is a special situation, but outside the region we concentrate on the health and education of women and girls because we believe that in countries that qualify as recipients of development aid, that the situation is precisely in the health and education of women and girls is a measure and that key point by which there has been progress, there has been a relapse of a society so that these are the criteria that we use.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71951	Thank you. And now we will hear the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Policy, the chairman of the board, Mr Milorad Popovec. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71952	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Ms. Croatian Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, colleagues and colleagues. The Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament held at its 36th session, held on 4 February this year, discussed a report on the implementation of the official development assistance of the Republic of Croatia with abroad for 2012 submitted by the Government to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 28 November 2013. The Committee discussed this report as a home working body and in the debate and after the discussion was conducted unanimously accepted this report. Now allow me, as chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy and as a member of this House, to say a few words about this report. The state of official development assistance of a country is an indicator of the strength of its foreign policy, better say one of the indicators of its foreign policy force, its external political engagement and its external political opportunities. The state of our country's official development aid in this case is also an indicator of the degree of opportunity our country can have when it comes to the international solidarity we have accepted and which we accept as our international foreign political commitment. On the other hand, the indicator, of course, of our obligations and ability to fulfil our international obligations as a member of the Union, as a member of the NATO Alliance and as a member of a series of other organisations. And the final state and scope of our country's official development aid is, of course, an indicator of our interests as countries within the international framework and international scales. And as Madam First Vice President and Minister said our interests are still primarily focused on our immediate environment. I could even say that our constitutional obligations or obligations, the constitutional obligations of the Republic of Croatia, are directly directed towards BiH, and then within BiH according to the constitutional obligations of the Republic of Croatia to care for members of the Croatian people in BiH. 'Cause most of it Thank you, Madam Vice President. [[/Intruder Zgrebec: It is a practice for the committee rapporteur to read, not to comment on the report. Please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71953	I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ilija Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71954	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished Minister Mrs Pusic with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. So finally one easier and relaxing topic for the benefit of all of Croatia and all of us because we were still a donor here to help humanitarian and developmental. When we discussed this report on the implementation of official development assistance abroad for 2011 I stated that Croatia has become an important factor in international frameworks through development assistance. In this context, Croatia gained even more importance in 2012 because during the long-term negotiating process with the EU, it has collected numerous experiences and has made these many experiences available to those who are waiting for entry into the EU. Such experience as the specificity of the Republic of Croatia in relation to other EU Member States will be extremely welcome to all those in the waiting room or in the vorzimmer, to say the waiting rooms for EU entry. The separations we heard in the opening presentation of the respected Minister Pusic, so some things will be lamentated through both replicas and through our presentations we may hear several times. These allocations are not comparable to the allocations of other EU member states, although the amount of monetary allocations for official development is defined by the EU. We heard that we will redefine what they have defined in the EU. For Croatia as a new member by 2015, it is therefore envisaged that we should single out from gross national income 0.33% which we should reach by 2015, but we have heard that this has already been seen by the Government and the minister has clearly said that it will not be a billion and not full 62 million kuna, but it will be 0.11% of gross national income by 2015. But it will be as much as we can give and it is good that we give, it is good that we do not receive as it was just before we join the EU. However, as a state, we can be proud of our situation and economic difficulties in providing a total of 125 million kuna, the minister said this amount in euro, which is more than €22 million in 2011 when 109 million were allocated. On the other hand, of course, it is important to contribute to the development of less developed countries, but just given the economic situation in Croatia, it may not have been necessary to increase this amount, but it was enough that we only kept this constant of supporting the development of less developed countries and countries in our neighbourhood. All the activities that have been carried out, the projects that have been implemented have certainly strengthened our position within the frameworks of the wider international community and it is undeniable and it is for every praise. Despite the definition of the level of isolation and the increased detachment compared to the previous year, the trend of detachment for the development of individual members is observed, which is justified by the economic situation, while the increase of the total amount of detachment for official development aid is practically nowhere in the report trying to justify itself. The report clearly shows our positive effects on helping out precisely in those areas where it was most necessary. All official development aid is directed in line with the long-term interests of the Republic of Croatia in our neighbourhood towards the countries of South East Europe, and in the amount of, I will talk about the absolute amounts of 54 million 590 and some million kuna, first of all to BiH and this amount in absolute amount for 2012 amounts to 44 million and 200 million kuna, which is understandable and the largest individual recipient for absolutely justified reasons of which Mrs. Minister spoke. The biggest recipient is BiH Development Assistance, which is about 8% we heard that data. We are in 8th place as a country that helps neighbouring BiH. Speaking of BiH, it is necessary to say a few words about the progress of reducing the dispersion of these projects that we have so far had to finance in providing this assistance. There were 2009s. 449, 2010. 431, 2011. 379. In 2012, we had a total of 34 projects in different sectors such as health, education, culture and development of civil society, and some of these projects are capital projects that I have to mention, it is the reconstruction of the Hospital in Mostar and projects of the University of Mostar. I single out these two projects quite deliberately not reducing the importance of any other project where funds have been directed in BiH because projects of vital national interest for Croats in BiH, but I also ask for all other citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina and South Croatia because the Clinical Hospital Centre and the University of Mostar are available under absolutely equal conditions both functionally and in any other sense both Bosniaks and Serbs and representatives of national minorities, which is quite understandable and our neighbourhood in southern Croatia. This huge drop in the number of projects with a drop in the financial amount allocated to Bosnia and Herzegovina is around 5%, and in increasing the total amount, the allocation is very indicative. And the question arises how much financial downturn we're going to record here with the announcement of this 0.11 to 2015 from gross national income instead of 0.33 but that's understandable, because the country's situation is what we'd all like if it were different. It is a very questionable new philosophy, I have to talk about it a few words, a philosophy of directing funds towards the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and how it stands towards entities. It means according to Republika Srpska and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And God forbid it happens that those funds will only go to the entity and the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At that time, the funds sent by the Republic of Croatia to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina would likely be difficult to reach the hands of Croats who are primarily and intended for or Croatian institutions. I'm worried about this concept because where the Brcko District, where the county is, this Brcko District is a condom of two entities but it's at state level. And where are the counties that are also territory within the state with their own constitutions. That's why I'm asking the issue of distribution of funds in a way that goes towards entities. And a small digression, explained on page 34, can be noticed for the suspension of funding and continuation of the construction of the Croatian National Theatre in Mostar message is to the Croats forget about the Croatian National Theatre in Mostar that you will ever have it. Because the way it's explained, I have the impression that it's been talked to the wrong people and that there's been a suspension of the work of that funding. But this seems to me to be the handwriting of those people who are in the State Office for Croatians outside Croatia from numerous ministries and from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And I recognize that handwriting of theirs. I hope that this attitude towards such an institution as the Croatian National Theatre in Mostar will be changed when we discuss future reports for last year, this year and 2015 in this term. Right behind Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have heard from Ms. Minister is Montenegro, then Afghanistan, with a significant number of members of the Croatian Armed Forces and Afghanistan taking first place on the list of least developed countries in the world. Croatia conducted a total of 11 projects worth more than 5 million kuna during the report period in Afghanistan. And that became Afghanistan a priority country immediately after partners in Southeast Europe. Helping Afghanistan is focused mainly on important and important projects, education, health care, infrastructure, services, etc., not to repeat, what Minister Pusic was talking about. But what separates us is the participation of the Republic of Croatia in some projects where none of the major donors, such as the project to encourage the development of crafts in rural and remote areas, have just been promoting the protection of women's rights, which is mentioned by the Minister. In the 2011 discussion, I also had the honour to talk about this report, I indicated one lack of this report, and it does not contain the measures taken to control, spend and control the use of such funds. I am saying this because very easily, without control and without supervision, it could be misused and could not therefore come into the hands of the citizens of the countries to whom this aid is intended. The reports we're discussing today have identical shortcomings. And I would kindly ask if it is possible to take this remark into account. And let the following reports therefore indicate how spending and spending control are carried out. The Republic of Croatia should continue to contribute to reducing poverty, achieving sustainable development and caring for the protection of human rights with a view to making new friends among countries in difficulty, even though we are not alone without difficulties mainly in economic terms. Croatia is a relatively small but grateful donor. And on this plan, the provision of official development aid still needs to be particularly focused on partner countries in the best way possible to repair at least there. And after all I've said in a number of quantifications that contain this report and what we've heard so far, a report on the implementation of the development aid to Croatia abroad can be asked why we are working so hard and we can't, and we don't have enough for our needs, there are a lot of unemployed people close to the 400 thousand figures, which is a terrible, low standard, hard to live for, etc. And I will stay with what we have already heard, in the report it is accepted, we are a member of the European Union, we are a NATO member, it is our duty to rest the principles of the International Community. We therefore participate according to these principles, and who gives and helps others also returns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71955	Replica, Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71956	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Filipovic, it is very well known to me that you were born in the eastern part of Croatia, educated here, but that you have acted in front of the order of the Croatian people in BiH responsible for responsibilities and I know that you know the situation when it comes to BiH institutions. As far as the official assistance of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina is concerned, I will not continue to expand or extend, it is that it is somewhat smaller than it has been these years, but I stand for it and I would say the famous "not in the schools everything". It can be helped in another way. I don't think Croatia should stand by when it comes to the construction of Croatian institutions in BiH and other institutions and not just Croatian institutions. When it comes to Croatian universities and its facilities across Croatian entities, it must not stand with its hands on monetary institutions, and we know what happened to the bank in Mostar, that people have been arrested, that the tank has entered the bank and that no one has been tried or convicted today. It came to me for the purpose of destroying an institution that would monitor the economy in the area, and the reason for this is the day-to-day emigration of Croats from BiH. I think that Croatia's foreign policy in these cases and in other cases should be more significantly involved in solving these problems, and I do not think that it is an intruding into the internal problems of the neighbouring country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71957	Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71958	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, I am pleased that you have supported the reduction in the number of projects, i.e. the concentration and projects and the realization of projects from 300 and some of them in 2011 to 34 as many as are mentioned here. And you have opened one question in terms of whether these funds will come where they are intended, whether they will be used in the right way etc., etc., and I think that you may have missed out on the presentation of the Minister or Vice-President of the Government that one key word or sentence that says this development aid is based on the effectiveness of the development aid it insists on and works by the European Union, and that word of effectiveness means monitoring and efficiency, means that the reduction of costs, and the greater the realization of services, efficiency or impact, how much impact we have in relation to the funds invested and the purpose itself, means planned-fulness. The word efficiency basically says that each kuna invested, of course not only in our close and neighbouring BiH, but in all the countries we provide development aid will be accurately and clearly detected and should not be at all questionable whether the funds have come, but we will get and the result is both the benefit of that investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71959	Replication response, Ilija Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71960	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I am sorry that Mr Gjurkovic did not listen more carefully to what I noticed that the funds are directed towards the state of BiH and two entities, because we have three entities and the Brcko district is practically one entity. 10 are legal entities that have their own constitutions and where Croats exercise rights, they are realised in counties where they represent some majority and in municipalities where they represent some majority. In one entity and another entity, the minor influence of the Croats is to exercise any right, and they are reputed whenever they seek something. I'm afraid those funds wouldn't wander. But what matters to me is that I understand that he's communicating with the state. The state of BiH is a proposed state mechanism and this complexity of BiH when we all understand in this Parliament and in the Republic of Croatia and in state institutions, we will be able to conduct a dialogue with all levels of government in BiH. Because the country's identity in international relations is also built with respect, respect and good knowledge of the relationship of the other side with which we are talking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71961	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71962	Dear fellow Filipovic, I will start with this response to your replica. You said that BiH is a complicated state system, I would say that it is an unnecessaryly complicated state system, and it would reflect on this when you spoke about whether any assistance was interrupted, the completion of construction, the idea of the Croatian National Theatre in Mostar. I agree, I read the argument that is stated that at this point there is no need for these types of buildings of the Croatian National Theatre. We should put ourselves in real terms because money is absolutely safe in both BiH and Croatia, but I agree with you that the Croatian National Theatre in Mostar is absolutely necessary, only needs to be aware of the real frameworks. And now I would still refer when the Deputy Prime Minister, Foreign and European Affairs Minister, listed why BiH is the most helpful. I believe she forgot about another segment, which in Bosnia and Herzegovina has the most Croats and Croats are there constitutional people, I think the most Croats in the countries in our environment and is quite certain that this is one of the reasons why most of the money goes to help Bosnia and Herzegovina, although we communicate with state authorities. But they probably had that conjecture in mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71963	Replication response, Ilija Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71964	Thank you very much, Mr. Vuksic. You've noticed that well. I couldn't speak more widely on the subject, because it's not an integral part of the report, but I will answer your question with pleasure. Yesterday, the day before yesterday, we had a debate, a very serious debate on Croatian broadcasting and on the Croatian National Theatre. So the people who ignore these two institutions ignored themselves. To say in the report, the reason why the Croatian National Theatre is not financed is the least worded "stupidary". Why? Well, Mostar City Council isn't working. To refer this to the city of Mostar which needs to make a study of justification, give consent to be built etc. That could only be written by someone who doesn't know the state of Mostar. Mostar is without the City Council, Mostar is with two puppet theatres, with two plumbings, with two universities, with two clinics, with two operators, with two electric companies, with three mentalities, with three worlds. So it's Mostar. Mostar needs to know, and they are not implemented in relation to all other units of local administrations and self-government sources, because most in the City Council of Bosniaks did not accept the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision to change the statute to join the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71965	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Tanja Vrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71966	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, the first Croatian Deputy Prime Minister with associates. Here in a rather conciliatory tone, I hope that this debate on the 2012 report on the implementation of the official development assistance of the Republic of Croatia abroad will continue. I thank the minister for the very comprehensive and detailed report that it is necessary to discuss the funds spent by taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club in the Croatian Parliament, I would like to look back on just a few words to the previous two years, the previous two years before this year, which includes this report, which is in 2010 when we allocated very much for development aid. However, the aid was very fragmented and took place in around 790 projects, of which a large percentage of which did not cover any of the thematic priorities defined in the National Strategy. In 2011, we singled out 108 million kunas, i.e. more than 14 million euros from the state budget for a smaller number of projects. In 2012, the year of the survey in question, the report under discussion, we spent about 125 million kuna or about 16.5 million euros, which represents an increase of 16 million kuna and 2.1 million euros respectively, compared to 2011. But in absolute terms, that's 0.03% of gross national income, which would be the same level as the year before. Croatia has been a donor country since 2007 when we started our first 147 and a half million kunas, i.e. it participates in international development cooperation. And before we became a full member of the EU, we were aware that there were expectations from the European Commission and other European institutions, that even after EU accession we would be willing to participate in the EU development aid policy. As we know, the EU is the world's largest provider of assistance to developing countries. The goal is to achieve an allocation of 0.7 gross national income by 2015, and in line with the pre-accession expectations and we should reach the level of singleing up to 0.33% of gross national income or about 1.1 billion kuna by 2015 as said in previous discussions as we have heard from the minister. These separations are not binding, and unfortunately we will not be able to reach that high level. The international development cooperation policy is an integral part of Croatian foreign policy. Its objectives must be coherent with EU policy and in line with the objectives of the international organisations to which we belong. The main policy objective of the development cooperation of the Republic of Croatia is to contribute to poverty reduction, and to achieving sustainable and inclusive development based on democratic values of human rights protection with a particularly sensitive approach towards women and children, as well as to facilitating the suffering of the endangered population during humanitarian disasters. In addition to showing solidarity through development assistance, we also strengthen our political, economic and cultural relations with partner countries, contribute to security and stability both at regional and global level. In 2012, 156 bilateral, multilateral and regional projects were implemented, a significant reduction compared to the year 2011 when 573 projects were implemented, but thus contributed to the reduction of fragmentation, i.e. the circulation of projects. Bilaterally, the aid was aimed at 19 countries, which is much more focused aid than the previous years. In the SDP Club, we believe that in 2012 the funds were spent from the state budget for development cooperation in line with our external and political priorities, the comparative advantages that we have as a country and that we have found our niche at European level in terms of our specific experiences transferred primarily as a conflicting and post-conflict democratic transition and the transformation we have gained through the years, as well as the sharing of our unique experiences gained during the EU negotiation process. It is evident that with money spent on the implementation of individual projects we respect national and local property, given that the provision of assistance is a very complex and sensitive process which must respect the needs but also the existing institutions of the recipient country. The best thing we can see is how there's been a lot of words here in previous discussions, for example. in bilateral assistance to the BiH. Official development aid in 2012 was primarily focused on three sectors, which are education, public health and social economic development. We were geographically following the sequence that had been drawn a year earlier, which is said by the Southeast Europe in particular, the BiH, the Mediterranean and Central Asia, with an emphasis on Afghanistan. When we talk about helping the BIH, it amounted to 44 million kuna in 2012 or 34% of the total funding planned for development aid. A total of 34 projects have been implemented in different sectors, although the financial amount shows a fall of around 5% compared to 2011, on the other hand progress has been made to support the reform processes at the central and entity level in the strategic direction of budgets in 20 capital projects, as well as to increase transparency and raise the standards of cooperation that we primarily target in projects that mark the development and sustainability criteria. My colleagues and colleagues will remind me that this is the fourth in a series of reports of this type and that previous criticisms have been going towards previous reports towards reducing fragmentation, precise geographical and sectoral orientations in line with the external political and economic interests of the Republic of Croatia. Avoiding the so-called inflation of development aid ah hoc nature and seeking the sustainable character of this aid and, of course, the transparency of the funds spent. By focusing development cooperation on public health, education and culture and the development of civil society in particular in bilateral assistance to the BIH at the SDP club, we believe that we have achieved these goals. Since most of the funds went right to the BIH on it I was somehow and most of all held back and I still want to praise the part that has not been mentioned so far regarding aid in the fire-fighting seasons as well in the ceasefires, also in the neighbouring BIH. When it comes to helping unstable countries, we highlight our contribution to Afghanistan and certain quantitative effects of entering areas where none of the other major donors were present and the strong promotion of the protection of women's rights, their economic empowerment and education of girls. Unfortunately, we do not believe that it is likely to be sufficiently recognized and valorized by the central Afghan authorities, which we hope will change in the future. Although they remain to address structural problems such as the transition from project to programming, strengthening national implementation capacities and consolidation of the budget for overall development cooperation, taking into account everything that has been said so far but also the real economic opportunities of the Republic of Croatia at the moment and the fact that this economic and social situation has been demonstrated by the Republic of Croatia's responsibility, credibility and international solidarity, the SDP Club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71967	Thank you. We have a replica, Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71968	Thank you very much, Vice President. So esteemed colleagues Vrbat, in your report on the implementation of official development assistance from the Republic of Croatia on behalf of the SDP Club, you also mentioned assistance to Afghanistan. It might be good and that's on page 61, as far as I've seen, help with Syria. I think that among the first EU countries, the Republic of Macedonia has actually recognised what will happen in Syria or what problem will cause refugees in Syria and all those refugees living outside Syria today, especially in Jordan, Turkey and Bulgaria, the Republic of Bulgaria, have provided decent assistance in the context of their opportunities, and I do not think that this should be forgotten in particular at the Safera camp or in the vaccination and provision of assistance to children, Syrian children in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71969	You haven't heard from your colleague. Now the word has been requested by First Vice-President and Minister Mrs Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71970	I would like to thank Madam Vice President and allow me to, if I can now answer some of the topics and issues and comments that have been raised in the debate so far because unfortunately I will have to leave Deputy Mr. Klisovic further in the debate as the foreign minister of Kosovo comes to the official visit, so I will have to leave for this. A few things I'd just like to say here. So, Mr Filipovic, the HDZ representative, said on behalf of the HDZ, that, he made an observation about the increase in the amount of official development aid in 2011, 2012, that under difficult conditions development aid was increased. I want to stress here because obviously I did not make it quite clear that the introduction, unfortunately or fortunately that you are looking is not a fact that the amount has been increased but has changed the way the costs are registered, so this increase is the result of the fact that the administrative costs in the costs of official development aid have not been calculated before and now, according to EU standards and these costs have gone in, so we are not as unfortunately as we have said we were able to increase it, but we have changed the way of calculating and we have a much clearer and much more accurate record that the state administration gives now in one place, and that is why you have that number. The second issue is evaluation, so project evaluations and project implementation assessments. This did not exist and we in 2012, in the 2013 report you will first see it, we designed the concept of ex-ante and ex-post in 2012. This is a bit easier in advance because this is an evaluation expert, and we're going to start this back with BiH because it's close and cheap in terms of travel and value opportunities. In projects that are at further locations, we rely on reports and data that are then obtained from the field from the leaders of these projects, but of course the ambition is that this ex-post evaluation is also for all the projects we are conducting anywhere. We've had them for these Afghan projects so far. Someone in the debate said the funds were very hard, but now they are no longer valid, so the projects are clear which projects, the funding is clear, we have to go through the institutions, we can't give private people money into our hands through account-based institutions. Croatia has an interest, this primarily applies to BiH, has an interest in making BiH progress as a stable European country. It is the only chance for both Croats and Bosniaks in BiH, and this is our goal, so that is the point of view and the goal of development assistance. On behalf of the SDP, Mrs. Vrbat also mentioned the evaluation, so we are going into the project, but it was designed in 2012, so you will see it in the 2013 report, and as far as accounting is concerned, it is a completely clear procedure, and that part is undeniable, so what we want to see is that these projects that we have funded are really what we wanted to be and really have that function and that eventually fix them, add, take away something if they don't meet the tasks that we went into. As far as the Afghanistan project is concerned, I must point out that we are not ignored by the central Afghan authorities, but rather by the project of building these hospital trainings we are working in agreement and in cooperation directly with the Afghan authorities, and that is also the recommendation of the AISAF, but also one of the first such projects and agreements signed between Minister Rasul and me on the construction of these hospitals. The second thing is that there's talk in the election campaign right now. Thank you very much, thank you very much for your comments, I am unusually glad that you are interested in this topic, I think it is very important and much greater than what is usually attributed to it. I'm sorry to have to leave, but I'm sure Mr. Klisovic, my deputy, will answer all your questions and additional comments.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71971	Thank you very much. On behalf of HNS representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71972	My colleagues and colleagues, I would like to thank Mrs. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, respected departure ministers, respected deputy and fellow assistants. We as a state and society are very often immersed in problems, and here we in the Assembly that we have very much, that's a fact and very rarely look beyond our own backyard because we don't have the strength or time for objective reasons, but we always have to remember that we're part of a world that's getting smaller and smaller and nothing is happening far from us anymore, no matter where the planet really happened. In other words, every instability, every humanitarian tragedy, every work, every poverty, epidemics, earthquakes, floods, exiles, refugees, everyone whose life or dignity is affected by our lives here in Croatia, but also a good picture of Croatia no matter how far and how small a project can be produced can be used seriously for us and for our country. Both development cooperation and development assistance are important policy instruments. The main objective, and I quote this directly from this report, the development cooperation of the Republic of Croatia, is to contribute to reducing poverty and achieving sustainable and inclusive development based on democratic values, protecting human rights with particularly sensitive access to women and children, as well as to facilitating the suffering of the endangered population during the humanitarian crisis caused by natural or human action. I purposely quote because this definition really sounds excellent, states the fundamental values of human society, at the same time corresponds to the general objectives of the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia and what is most important in the report we are talking about today is precisely seen that the development aid policy is indeed guided by the principles set out in the quoted definition. The direct benefits of all programmes are primarily the receiving countries, but I would especially like to highlight both the Republic of Croatia and the direct or indirect benefit. If you'll just give me one brief example of your own experience. Last week, we had a small delegation of the Croatian Parliament and the Committee on Foreign Policy in Montenegro, and there we spoke with many colleagues and colleagues of any parliamentarians, whether government people, from the state administration involved in Montenegro's EU accession process and our assistance in the process of Montenegro's accession to the Union and widely recognised and highly appreciated. And it is quite certain that it will have long-term positive effects on our mutual relations, as well as on the status of the Republic of Croatia both in the region and in the EU. This assistance that I am talking about in the accession is mainly through advice for transition processes, etc. The Centre of Excellence established by the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs in 2012 which this report is related to and through this centre is systematically shared with the needs of partner countries of knowledge and experience from the transition and accession process of the EU. In other words, the Republic of Croatia is in the position of co-worker, mentor and assistant in serious political processes. And as much as we'd all like it, unfortunately, it's not the usual situation for our country, and it's certainly something that we can all be proud of together. In particular, the specific role Croatia can play based on its own, unfortunately tragic experience also in the processes of a post-conflict democratic transition, which is what the minister and previous speakers have already said. And that thematic area we have also profiled as our specific niche compared to other EU members and that product to call it that, we are politically offering globally. In addition to the founding of the Centre of Origin in 2012, the profiling of our political niche in the area of post-conflict democratic transition, the harmonisation of national policy with the EU development cooperation policy, the strengthening of efficiency, transparency, coordination and administrative capacity of development cooperation, etc., etc. So a whole series of structural changes that development cooperation policies have given both a new form and a new content. In particular, I would like to emphasise the principle of effectiveness of development aid in order to, unfortunately, with very limited resources that we are all aware of, achieve as much effect as possible. 2012 Croatia has not yet been an EU member, but has contributed to the co-operation of the Union's development cooperation policy in the status of an active observer, actively participating in various working groups, and has also taken over the chairmanship of the good humanitarian practice information exchange group. As for our humanitarian action, again in line with the objectives set, it was mainly focused on early reconstruction programmes in post-conflict and unstable environments, prevention and strengthening of crisis management capacities, constantly protecting the most vulnerable groups of especially women and children. In terms of bilateral development aid, we have already talked about it, the priorities were BiH, Montenegro, Afghanistan, Syria, Kosovo, etc. Focusing primarily on education, public health and social economic development. In the segment of multilateral development aid, we have collaborated with 19 international institutions and bodies. One of the good examples of such cooperation is the project School Meals, which provides the World Food Programme with food to Afghan families who send girls to school. And in the addition, that is, after the opening part of this report, we got a table with all the projects and that is the most interesting and actually the most illustrating part of this report. This table shows the whole range of projects and various ways in which the Republic of Croatia contributes to development at global level, from the establishment of police forces in Afghanistan, to the construction of schools, libraries, water towers, water pumps, through women's entrepreneurship in Albania, projects in the sphere of health, social and culture in BiH, education for the democracy of women from minority groups in Myanmar, students from Mauritius and Namibia who study here and carry their experience with Croatia, their knowledge and their relationship with Croatia bring back to their environments. This is among other things one of the projects that should certainly be strengthened because this experience of study in a country in a large majority of people creates a permanent relationship with the countries in which they studied. And if these people really are in their midst successful entrepreneurs, successful civil servants, successful politicians, then it is certain that the long-term reputation and position of the Republic of Croatia and in those environments will certainly strengthen. Then until action and the establishment of a search system for rescue, ceasefire in neighbouring countries, police officers from our most important tourist markets patrolling the Croatian coast in the summer. A very popular project gets a lot of media attention both in Croatia and in the countries from which these officers come. And of course not to mention refugees, exiles and asylum seekers. All of this and many other projects that are visible in this table that are attached to the report are programmes that make up our development aid by which we spread human and democratic values, we help those who need the help most, but at the same time strengthen the international position of our own country. The key developments in our opinion that have been made in 2012 compared to previous years are: rounding the project or reducing fragmentation because it seems to us that the smaller the projects and the harder it is to answer the question of what we really want to achieve. 2. strengthening the institutional framework, e.g. through the Center of Origin. 3. Strengthening cooperation with other domestic and foreign stakeholders of the development aid process and the 4th last but not least, a clearer link with the fundamental objectives of foreign policy. After a long and difficult debate, HNS decided to support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71973	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71974	Dear colleague Coleman, you have touched a very important issue in your debate that I actually think you are the only one today, which is precisely these lasting relationships that are being established with the countries that we are helping, which is studying in Croatia itself. If you remember, you're a lot younger, you used to be a very important part of politics before the 1990s. Today, Croatia is also benefiting from their former studies in Croatia, and today these relationships are the strongest links of these students. Well, we've seen when some big tragedies occur, when these people from these countries come to us, and when it's seen that these countries, this relationship is far deeper than we thought, or what we assume today that just studying and staying alone in Croatia means a lot. In this way we create the image of a civilised country, of a country of knowledge and of what all governments swear, so the government swore before it and the Government before it, a country whose solidarity is not foreign. And that's what someone already said in today's debate isn't all about money. In these kind of relationships that are far deeper and more lasting, Croatia has a chance and then I repeat what we mentioned earlier, and it is a school of peacemaking and so it is also one degree of knowledge-giving as it is just studying.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71975	The answer to Igor Coleman's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71976	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Vuksic, thank you, and I absolutely agree with everything you have said, which is why I emphasized it, it seems to me that education is one of the key projects in this development of development assistance and cooperation in the future. Education as you yourself said is setting up a particularly solid and most often especially positive and long-term relationship between a person who studied somewhere in a foreign country and a foreign country, especially if it was just a study as you said part of the help, the scholarship of the recipient country itself, where the whole message you're talking about, a country that can offer something, which has compassion, which has an idea of what it is actually doing, is actually expanding and stronger. Another thing I want to point out here. Croatia has several or many specific knowledge and specific branches that it can offer especially in the context of our foreign policy objectives at the moment, so let's say in the context of North Africa, or the Southern Mediterranean, we have a whole series, for example. opportunities in the training that we can offer in fishing, in shipbuilding, so students, for example, here's just one small example, so students from North African countries who could be here at any time when it comes to fishing, at any time when it comes to shipbuilding, so this whole industry complex that we're talking about and the knowledge that we're dealing with. And then, of course, such an education can also be a channel for our entry into those markets, both our fishermen and our ship builders. So it's all connected together and education is certainly one of the key projects in a programme like this, and it's certain that in the future it needs to be strengthened.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71977	On behalf of the Club of Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS, a colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71978	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We certainly as a state and as a people understand very well what help means, which means help in particularly sensitive moments, we know how important it is that it doubles who gives immediately, who gives quickly because in the recent past we have experienced it. Unfortunately, this is the moment to remind ourselves that at one point Croatia had about a million exiles, refugees, so also refugees in its own country of its fellow citizens, so above all, Croats who were exiled from their homes and refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina. If we were unique and in fact it seems to me the only country so far that I know who opened the entire island of Oboonjan for the care of exiles and refugees. And that we're mostly concerned about people who have lost their roofs, with nothing but the greatest hope, that we've taken care of them almost, exclusively by our own means, by means of the state budget. So at that point, any assistance in the construction of the settlement, in food aid, in the clothes was very valuable and important. So as part of this debate, this is an opportunity to remember with respect Dr. Adalbert Rebic, who passed away yesterday, a representative of the government's office for exiles and refugees at these most difficult moments, the most difficult years and the most difficult times. A humble, quiet, educational, honest man who gave his heart to those who needed it most. My colleagues and colleagues, I will also make a statement at the beginning because I think it is very important, that it is important that we discussed this report before, so last year, much earlier, because here in the meantime we became a member of the European Union, so we are talking about the report, about our assistance, about our project, about our policy, assistance and support in the year in which we were not yet a member of the European Union. So, I would like those reports to really come in time because there is too much distance from the end of 2012 to this debate as has been with many other reports that we unfortunately discussed with great delay in the Croatian Parliament. So, surely this is an extremely important segment not only of foreign policy, politics in general and then internal policies when we talk about many other countries, but especially Bosnia and Herzegovina, of our constitutional provisions on the care of Croats around the world and especially in the neighbouring country. So, it's a good thing it's listed here as a priority for Southeast Europe, that's logical. The European path of Southeast Europe is extremely important and must be one of the priorities of our foreign policy, because the European pathway or the Euro-Atlantic path of JI Europe, our neighbours and finally guaranteeing lasting peace. Something which is one of the slightly forgotten values or pillars on which the European Union is also resting, and how important and valuable peace we know in Croatia. The war, when we look at it in a historical context, actually only recently ended, and in Croatia finally in '98. Returning Vukovar to the constitutional legal system of the Republic of Croatia. The report states, of course, that the prevention of poverty is one of the main objectives, one of the main engines of this system of assistance and, of course, in Croatia, I will say with a little bitterness at the moment when we really have huge economic and any other problems, we as the country that we were the recipient as well as in the report, and now we became a donor, a young donor, anyway, that if this situation in Croatia continued, we might be able to easily turn into a recipient country. So I believe that's not going to happen, and that's why this report is also the moment when we have to think about what's ahead of us, what decisions we have to make. Here are some projects, such as the amendment of the Labour Act, in front of the Croatian Assembly, and it is also a time to turn back and look further into the future. Project visibility, that's a lot of talk. I don't think like here's most of them who have discussed the visibility of projects helping round projects. In some cases, it may, in particular, stand out for projects aimed at BiH or BiH. I think it's important for the visibility of the projects that they're really well prepared, that they're focused where it's most important and necessary and that they're certainly transparent to the end, that no one can abuse them in any way. So 125 million kuna in 2012, it's big money, it's focused on 19 states, so big money, for Croatian opportunities big money. There is talk of an increase, while at the same time a reduction for BiH by 5%, but I think this vision of an increase is actually only in a better system that has helped us to have really relevant data from all segments that the report is talking about. When it comes to supporting JI Europe, it rightly highlights our assistance in all those projects that we have designed in a large part, but which we had to construct for negotiation, for entering the European Union. This experience of course will help me and this occasion remind me, because it should not, of course, be forgotten, that we, as Government in the past term, have identified and donated all our friends to SEE Europe, so not only to direct neighbours, but to all governments, or countries, the translation of the acquis, which was a big and important job that we have invested in, and I always repeat it, 8 million euros because it is not irrelevant. So this budgetary framework, which is listed here, and I believe it is because it is a 2012 report, so the situation in 2012 was slightly different, so more than billions of kuna by the end of 2015, of course, unreal to expect. If we keep this level because we don't know any more now, we're arguing again today about 2012, we don't know what the situation was in 2013, but if we keep this 125 million as some kind of framework for, say, 2015, if that's possible, then that's going to be good. And it's a good thing that in this division by the ministries we see that the Ministry of Science, Education actually gives the most, or that it was given the most because it's most important to give in education, in science, where we want to help. It's really the best built aid, but it's definitely also about health care. So I suggest we also use some of our experiences in future projects, some of our experiences that we had in Croatia, for example, in the implementation of the project "Decade for the Roma". Right in helping women, girls, in schooling girls, which is especially important because of tradition, so we have had great results and I think we could fit and install these experiences over the coming years in these development aid projects. So I have mentioned BiH already, and it is important that one part of this help is again, as every year before that, going to a hospital in Mostar, but also important to repeat that in the coming years, the more it goes to young people's education, let's see some possible projects. The colleagues spoke about the education of young people from countries who needed help in Croatia, so BiH and young people from BiH should also be seen in this way and the possibility of education in Croatia. So what has been invested in knowledge is indeed the best and lasting investment in that country. Of course we support all these projects related to support Afghanistan, I especially repeat the support and work of women and schooling girls and, of course, all projects for gender equality, for as quickly as possible information and education against domestic violence, against violence against women and especially girls. And I finally have a question because this review is how and how it's directed, I'm not going to say spent, but directed at these 125 million kunas. Here, for example, Turkey and Moldova are listed in the table, which is certain we haven't directed anything. So here it says it's zero kuna, so I don't know why it was needed then countries that we obviously didn't send any help with why we even listed them in this report and this table. If it's zero, then I don't think it's necessary. And I appeal that here in the next periods we will consider greater our assistance if possible for Kosovo. Well, thank you very much. We accept the Report and suggest that the next reports and the 2013 report come as soon as possible to our benches.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71979	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71980	Dear colleagues Kosor, you spoke in your presentation about Croatia being already in a position when it was receiving help, but it was also giving help. You said that you were afraid that we might repeat the situation as it was before we were donors and that we would have to receive help. Unfortunately, history is often repeated. However, we are often unjust to ourselves. It should really be remembered how much we gave to others in the 1990s, how much we gave especially to refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina and especially to Bosniaks, which he described well in his books, in fact, under-documented General Slobodan Praljak and these documents remained undetected in Croatia. Croatia is very human and Croatia, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are quite certain among those who never refuse to help, so it will likely be in the future. And what we provide is absolutely certain to give a good picture in Croatia and I would be as happy as you if we didn't need help and we never needed it. Unfortunately, we should have, but I say again. We should be proud that we were the hardest to give in the 1990 ’ s and that we were often judged unjustly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71981	Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71982	Of course, I would be as happy as you if we could increase aid in the coming years, that we could say in terms of the economic situation, GDP growth and the overall situation in the country that we can really increase aid to those who need and need it. Because we know best, and I said how important it is, and it's not that often that this total financial aid is important, but it feels like you're not alone. You mentioned assistance in the management of Bosniak refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Right, maybe we should talk about it more. For example, the overall concern about the health care of these people in Croatia was also ours, exclusively ours. It was our commitment, but it went on, so it really burdened the resources from the state budget. There's little to know about those numbers, about those numbers. In total, we only spent money on the construction of highways from Zagreb to Split or from Split to Zagreb in the care of exiles and refugees in the pursuit of what is called a roof over the head and a slice of bread. And we should really point out more so that we are more proud of what we ourselves have done, and sometimes for determination we need little reminders that we are actually strong when we need it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71983	Igor Coleman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71984	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mrs. Kosor, you mentioned in your presentation the donation of translations of the common legal gain to countries from the region. Although it is not part of this report, I agree that it was a major step in helping countries in the region. And this whole process continued to this day with our help in the accession process primarily to the countries of the region as well as to other European Unions. This shows that a good and serious job can have positive effects on the Republic of Croatia and on the international agenda in the medium and long term. I also said in my presentation that this is something that we all from one wall to the other wall of this assembly can really be proud to have in mind your role and contribution in this process.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71985	Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71986	Thank you very much, dear colleague Coleman. Here we again mention the translation of the aquis and the donation of the translations of the aquis. That, I'm sure you remember, happened on a hill near Kranj, so when my colleague, Pahor, and I started the so-called. A hill of process. I'd like that process to continue, because it was the first attempt to find each other at the same table. Not everyone's here. For example, to the Serbian prime minister, Mr Cvetkovic, I gave the translation of the acquis something later. On behalf of the state, however, certainly not their own. However, it was a good step forward and was also a good step forward by Parliament's decision, so the Croatian Parliament at the time, you remember, which has also made a declaration or resolution quite whatever, but the decision has been made by consensus that no bilateral question raised by difficult negotiations and dislocking negotiations in the event of the blockade of the Republic of Slovenia. So that we will not pose any bilateral question or problem as an obstacle to the European path of our neighbours. Those were steps forward as we miss them now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71987	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71988	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Associates. I would start from this last sentence by Mrs Kosor that Croatia will not make difficult obstacles on the way of other countries as they like to say it in Brussels from the South East Europe region or the Western Balkans, and if by entering the EU, this so-called region has lost one member, it has lost Croatia, but Croatia's ties with neighbouring countries are mostly deep and because of these reasons that we spoke earlier, given that half a million Croats live in the BIH, that they are a constituent people and that they are as constitutive as the other two nations in the country of BIH, as Ivo Andric Bosnia said, Croatia is both Muslim and Serbian, and neither is Croatia not Muslim nor Serbian, so it should be looked at this matter. So, that we do not need to make obstacles like Slovenia's rule to Croatia as said by her colleague Kosor, in fact, means that it is recognised that Republic of Slovenia is the rules of the obstacles of the Republic of Croatia and we all know that. That's clear. But the Republic of Slovenia at the time when it made obstacles to us was then a member of the EU, yes, so as to who said it in the EU in the Republic of Slovenia, do not make obstacles to the Republic of Slovenia. Today, we voluntarily give up as we see and from the outset, I have to say and it is part of the foreign policy and I can't stand to take this opportunity to tell the Ministry and the gentlemen of the Foreign Ministry that we have to give up some of the questions that need to be asked, and I need to say no, but it can be resolved in quiet diplomacy on the matter of Charengrad Ade, Kenjia, so 10 thousand hectares in the country, and then border issues with the Republic of BIH, etc. This needs to be resolved, so we can't just give up our own, but the official development aid of the Republic of Croatia is significant, it actually takes place from the beginning of the Croatian state. We seem to have a weak or short memory and remember those columns, refugees, exiles from the BIH who blended into a gauze near Karlovac where they were first strengthened, strengthened, and then, according to the directions and international communities, some sent to other countries and some stayed in Croatia, and then Gashinac to Djakova, etc. So the Republic of Croatia has since its beginning one humanitarian and human dimension of its policy. When we look at this report, then we see that, instead of those words, official development aid is not going to be said as given but as expected by the European Commission and Mr Barroso and his employees is 0.33% of gross national income, which would amount to a billion and 61 million kuna, so 10% of what was expected from the Republic of Croatia to 2015, it was 2014 to 2015. And it has been said here by the Minister herself that no sanctions or any other pucks from the European Commission can be expected. I think that's what they are and let's say objective and realistic possibilities of the Republic of Croatia. By looking at the table and helping us then we see that one third of the waste or 44 million 277 thousand on the BIH, in Montenegro 10 million, Serbia, so we are talking about countries in our environment or countries in the former Yugoslavia, so Serbia 77 thousand, Kosovo 839 thousand which is in some way not to say interesting but the ratio of the size of Kosovo and if we also look at the national minorities we have and who owe us to the Constitution of the Republic of Yugoslavia to help in some way and in this official help, therefore, Kosovo 839 thousand, Serbia 77,000 which is disproportionate. This data before Turkey itself and Insects already observed Kosor of 0 kuna for the two countries that were neither needed in this list of 19 countries in which Croatia and not only the countries but also these international organisations and more state co-operation, so these two, in order to be 21, were neither necessary, Turkey and Moldova with 0 kuna. It's an interesting piece of information, and for the last one in this table, it's Zimbabwe with the 1973 kuna to help what I think it is, I wouldn't want to comment. I know that this aid, or the criteria of this official development aid, cannot, therefore, create criteria for the existence or absence of a Croatian national minority in those countries, but in any case, the BIH is a priority. No one, no one can deny it, and as far as these so-called vulnerable groups were concerned by a colleague from the CNS, so the most vulnerable groups are still there, he listed especially women and children but he has those still vulnerable or most vulnerable groups that he has not listed in his list of vulnerable groups. Peacemaking, a crisis school, as someone says there is in Austria for these areas, so it's been removed, I'd say from the former crisis or war to say a specific situation. Indeed, Croatia also has capacities, there are also personnel and opportunities for something like this so that it should actually move simply closer to these countries of Southeast Europe or the Western Balkans, which means it could also work in the Republic of Croatia. Croatia's ties with foreign countries in terms of education, education, mostly students, it was once an international exchange of students, etc. It's compared to the former state, I have to say less than it was back then. So we know exactly those who studied in the '70s and 80s that the number of students was higher than those, let's say the countries from, as a colleague, North Africa and the Middle East, so from Lebanon, Syria, and from other countries a little more south in Africa were more students than today. Okay, the possibilities are something different, the situation is now something different so I wouldn't mention it as a major factor in the exchange of those countries with the Republic of Croatia. The HNK in Mostar, as one problem, we know history, was created in 1994, we know that it was started to build and operate in that HIT store house, we know that it was on the first line of separation of then-warned sides, so Bosniak or Muslim and Croatian, we know that the construction was started, we know that the small scene works in the basement of that new building and we all know that after the hospital in Mostar, the university hospital and the Croatian University of Mostar is actually a building of theatre one, such as in Croatia, Split, Osijek and Zagreb, one of the main elements and features and Croatian national traditions and culture and the HNK. That is why I would appeal, I would also call on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to actually coordinate all ministries, so this culture ministry also has an assistant who, along with other assistants in other ministries, is concerned about taking care of and helping the HNK, which now receives 50% of the funding from the county of Herzegovina and 50% of the funds are managed and received from donations, sponsorships and I don't know what not. It is for action, and construction itself really requires more loving help. But clearly, focused, so as you said here, and I agree with the fact that official development aid projects concentrate and focus on several projects. One among them or perhaps even now, perhaps in the next period, for this or for next year, it is also very important for Croatia, to me, HNK in Mostar. We know how the prime minister who really went to Mostar in time went through with making a small mistake because he said it was a two-national environment, but we know that Mostar is a transnational environment, I don't know who he forgot about in his two-nationality, or expressing his duality. We know that the Serbs live 10 to 15% in Mostar, therefore they should not have left anyone behind, especially if it is the prime minister of this Kukuriku government. The donation of translation and aquis, therefore voluntarily, not to say, and in the context of help, and also counts on these amounts, is known to be a difficult, expensive and big job that Croatia has done in negotiations with the EU and that indeed, languages close to Croatia, very close, are not a problem for translation later in these countries in our environment both in Serbia and in BiH and Montenegro. Unfortunately, in BiH because of the disorderly state, because of the constitutional crisis, because of the situation that is happening and the various, I will not speak here, the ministry gentlemen know better, but I would also have to be busy and clearly determined by, here may not be the subject, but according to the constitutionality and equality of the Croats in BiH, but I also need to think seriously about, in my opinion, and about the third entity. The only one who can protect Croats in this regard, not to separate and separate BiH, but rather to make the Croats finally equal and satisfied in that country that they should consider their own rather than move out of it every day. ... Exactly. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And Croatia needs to make clear views on this issue because it has the rights under the Dayton Treaty and the Dayton Agreement to think about it. It's even her obligation, her obligation to him. So this, clearly, should respond to statements about, I don't know, Serbian Vukovar president of Serbia, whether the Bunjevci are Croats or not, what is the official position of Croatia's politics, whether the Bunjevci are Croats or not? Because Mr. President of Serbia, to whom we gave the acquis, is the translation of the acquis as Mrs. Kosor said, now proclaims the Bunjevci to the non-Croatians and shares the Croats to the Bunjevaces, Sokce and Croats in Serbia. This is the breaking of the Croatian National Corps where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should intervene, clearly and loudly. About the aid itself and in third countries since, starting with Myanmar and here in Palestine, 550,000 kunas of Namibia, Mauritius, Afghanistan where our Corps of Croatian Soldiers is located, about creating schools in Afghanistan, about education and women and children in those countries where the matter is very delicate in view of religious turmoil and religious customs. So I have nothing against such assistance, against the help of Croatia in their capabilities and which we see are, but I think more attention should be paid to these problems that you trust me if you are not in contact with Croatian citizens every day when they listen and watch this joy that was so expressed when Serbia opened negotiations, and without any conditions other than the missing list of the only conditions was the missing list, and all other problems are gone. The Croatian people are not satisfied with this, with such an approach to foreign policy, Croatian citizens are not satisfied. That's our attitude and our opinion, and maybe yours is different. Just let us express our opinion here at the pay phone. Given everything that's been brought here, the HDSSB club will be restrained on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71989	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71990	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So I believe that my colleague Grubisic will agree with what has already been said, so I also said that the European path, the Euro-Atlantic path of our neighbours and the Republic of Serbia, is a guarantee of lasting peace in this area, in this part of Europe, in this part of the world, and we know that, as a country, we were the victim of the aggression of the great Serb Milosevic aggression. You asked someone in the moments when the Croatian Republic of Slovenia blocked the negotiations whether anyone was saying don't do it from the EU. Well, of course, they were actually saying everyone said our other friends allies, they said no. However, Slovenia was a member as well as you said, and Croatia was not a member and we had to solve this problem, otherwise we would not be a member of the EU today, it is safe. This does not mean, of course, when we talk about the European path of the Republic of Serbia, I think that it should be very clear, precise and as often as possible, without a complex, it does not mean that we as a member of the EU do not need to change, because the two governments will probably change until these negotiations of the Croatian government are over, so we will see, therefore, that we do not have to constantly highlight what are open issues that we have to do until the entry of the Republic of Serbia. So the opening of enemy JNA archives to find answers to the questions where they went missing and to close this issue forever. Without that, we can't talk any further. Of course, it also withdraws criminal responsibility, but it needs to be swallowed. And we've done a lot of hard things. The issue of borders should certainly be resolved, open border issues, and it is not necessary for Serbia to open negotiations that is my opinion, to withdraw the lawsuit.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71991	Thank you very much. And so we're off topic. The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71992	Thank you very much. Comrade Kosor, there are many things that have been kept quiet for the past two years, as this government is in power. First, the lawsuit and the war damage and the height of the war damage. Secondly, 35 thousand art is still in Serbia and has not been returned, thirdly, to the territory of 10 thousand hectares of Kenjia so-called. It is called the area over the Danube on the left, the Charengrad Ada and the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Border Police over the Charengrad Ad. These are things that need to be spoken out loud and clear. And we've highlighted there what's equally important to know the names and preferably the places where they've disappeared, to say gone, where they've either been buried and how they've disappeared, that's the fourth thing that's yet to happen. But we saw an official reaction in Brussels by the minister himself, so there's no mention of it. And Serbia will not be admitted before 2020, the EU's parliament concluded. It can be said against whoever will and personally and certainly. The new EU accession to us before 2020, so after the end of the five-year period of the new parliament that we are now going to the elections in Europe and which lasts five years from 2014 until then can be expected if Serbia meets all the conditions, and Croatia must not remain cross-handed because it is Croatian.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71993	I wish we could go back to the topic we're discussing. Ivan Simunović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71994	Thank you, Madam President. A colleague, Grubisic, and you, in your debate, referred to the assistance the Republic of Croatia is granting through various BiH projects. As they say, it is the amount of more than 44 million kuna invested in nearly 400 projects. From the data provided, we see how these projects are mainly invested in education and health care. I stress this is done by projects that benefit all BiH residents, not just Croats. I think this should be another argument to strengthen the position of Croats who are a constituent people in BiH, especially in times of economic crisis, we must be careful where our taxpayers' money goes and that spending that money is justified. Many of our citizens are rightly concerned about the situation of the Croats in BiH, which requires an even stronger political engagement not only financially. Many Croats have been expelled from the area of today's Republika Srpska entity, they want to see no building material donated to rebuilding houses because it is unjustly detained at the border. The material is customs, although customs duties should not be charged for humanitarian aid. The returnees have no money for customs, the Republic of Serbia will also not pay, so this is a very effective way to prevent Croats from returning to Republika Srpska. I think it's necessary to deal with this problem more seriously. Due to the difficult economic situation in the Republic of Croatia, it is likely difficult for citizens to imagine that this amount of money Croatia donates for development projects to countries around the world. That is why it is important that each kuna knows exactly who it is going to and why it is given. That's why I'm glad this report was done in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71995	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71996	Thank you very much. Col. Simunović writes here that Croatia spent on construction material, so for returnees, Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina about 14 million kunas if I remember what I read well. However, the effects of this return are mainly in the so-called so-called “. ” Republika Srpska is always for me so-called. So they're minimal or none. So if we're looking at municipalities in Posavina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, so Bosnian Brod, Dervent, Blue, and even Brcko, Brcko District, then we see that this return from the pre-war population, or before the war number of Croats in that section that was 35 to 40% today is just not 5% or 5%. Therefore, the money of those foreseen for Bosnia and Herzegovina could indeed be distributed, the first thing I should think about in relation to others and increase that number from one third to at least 40%, official development aid and then increase this number from it, but with these two entities that exist in Bosnia and Herzegovina agree that there is no customs duty on such material for returnees. Neither did Croatia's customs controls on those who had to, were forced to avoid Bosnia and Herzegovina, nowhere, a transition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71997	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71998	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Grubisic agrees with you that the assistance of the Croatian National Theatre in Mostar is necessary because culture is, of course, one of the most powerful guardians of the identity of a nation and, in that sense, with a university, along with a hospital on the same level, all activities of the Croatian National Theatre and help them as much as possible because of the fact that the number of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina has actually been halved in relation to the list that has been made recently. So it is quite clear that here is the almost halved number of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina due to the war, because of everything that happened in the 1990s. And in some ways, Croatia is, not in some way, but constitutionally, obliged to take care of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in this sense, that assistance is necessary. You also mentioned resolving bilateral issues with neighbouring countries and Serbia. I would also like to highlight the resolution of bilateral issues with both Bosnia and Herzegovina. The outstanding issue of the longest limit is of the primary interest of the Republic of Croatia and it is certainly Bosnia and Herzegovina that does not show very much functioning as a legal state as we can see from day to day. Likewise, the International Community, the European Union which has no resolution instrument, regardless of having a high representative who behaves there as a cadiya, has no instrument for resolving fundamental, crucial issues among the three constituent peoples. And in essence, Croats do not feel like a constituent people because in practice it is quite clear that many instruments of constitutionality are missing. Therefore, Croatia is obliged to stabilise Bosnia and Herzegovina and relations in this process... Use all instruments as a member of the European Union to level the status of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so that Croats begin to return to the areas so-called. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Republika Srpska, that's where I agree with you. And it is indeed an opportunity that, in parallel with this process of approximation, we influence politics in countries where the Croats are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u71999	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u72000	Thank you. counterpart Matušić and counterpart Klisovic, Croatia, in fact, her Ministry of Foreign Affairs received a historic chance by entering the European Union on 1 July to make the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina more intense, even if I were to say leading in Europe, given that it borders on thousands of kilometers, that it knows the good opportunities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that it knows the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that it has excellent information about Bosnia, to take the initiative in the European Union to finally resolve the situation of the constitutional crisis and all of those crises that we see here have produced in Bosnia and Herzegovina. As far as I'm concerned, I will not say the protection of the Croatian people but the rights of the Croatian people as a constituent people in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't think we should miss this historic chance. First of all, we can congratulate the Prime Minister for going to Mostar at the right moment and showing. This also showed and proved Croatia's interest in resolving the situation, primarily in terms of these demonstrations and unwanted destruction. And now I have to say both quietly and very clearly turn on and give Croatia's views on Bosnia and Herzegovina. Secondly, when you talk about Croatia's care for the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I would not be as sure as Mr. Matusic, because the truth is the water is deep and the politics it has led, they have led past governments starting with the drafts. [[/Intruder: My colleagues and colleagues have another replica, please bear with me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u72001	Please. Let's hear another line and then we'll vote. Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u72002	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, don't be unfair to your colleagues, they haven't seen each other in a long time, so they need to talk a little bit. My colleague Grubisic, I agree with you, not only should we think about the third entity in Bosnia and Herzegovina but we should seriously impose a conversation on the third entity and I fully agree with you there. However, this means that you agree with the foreign minister who first spoke from this authority a year and a few days ago about the third entity and the need of a third entity which is good, finally to discuss Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina in this way. And I think that third entity is the solution to the issues about Bosnia and Herzegovina. I disagree with you here that this is not the development of Bosnia and Herzegovina, though. And what you were saying about the conditions of the Slovenians when we were candidates for the European Union, I agree with Mrs Kosor, the Slovenian racket, which was a pure racket, was not a good example.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u72003	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u72004	Thank you very much. As for fellow Slovenians, it was not a good example of Slovenia to look for the Croatian sea. And as for Croatia, asking what is Croatian of other countries in the environment and what is not today under our jurisdiction as Sarengrad Ada, it is abnormal not to ask. And as for the third entity and you say that Mrs. Pusic said that a year and a half ago, I didn't hear her say it afterwards. But if in the state of BiH, it is not the Republic of BiH, of the Federation and the Republic consists, if there are only 3 entities, and not 10 cantons as it now has, it now has 10 cantons of 15 ministers, 150 ministers and another federal government and another state government and ask God. With 3 entities, we have a much smaller number of administrations, a cheaper state and a country that all three peoples will feel as their own, and that doesn't need to be spoken at all shyly. That should be said loud and clear in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u72005	Thank you very much. Now we move on, or we return to the debate on the subject on the agenda. The subject has been requested by the representatives' clubs, so we'll do the part first. National Minorities Club and Honorable Representative Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u72006	Dear Mr. President, distinguished members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Today, we have been discussing a report that we were mostly proud of, so our country of the Republic of Croatia is now in a position to, and also have an international obligation as a member of the EU to help other countries. Today we have heard that this aid may not be within the scope of our obligation, but even as much as we can help it is welcome because we have crossed over, to say from the regime when we needed some help in the regime that we could provide this help. We were proud to point out that the good part of this help goes to BiH, to our neighbouring sovereign country with which we have a border greater than 1000km and to a country where our Croatian people are constitutional, so it is another additional obligation, part of it and goes to Montenegro, we heard it go to Afghanistan and to that aid, however much it is and whoever we went to, we expressed our pride. But I felt the need to comment on some discussions about today's debate that I think are coming out of the framework allowed in the Croatian Parliament because BiH is a sovereign, independent, internationally recognised country, it has solved a Dayton agreement that is in force, how happy it is for its peoples and its citizens, they know it best, and I think they are not the happiest, but I think any solution that will possibly follow for BiH should follow the principle of resolving two issues. It is one issue of constituent peoples because it is indeed a country of three constituent peoples, in all of its territory, and the other is a question of the leftover elemental civil rights which the obligation to judge the Court of Human Rights "Sejdic-Finci" is to apply. So a solution for BiH in the future, we hope that a relatively better solution will come to all its citizens, but it must reconcile and satisfy these two principles, a country of three peoples, but also a country of its citizens. Therefore, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I ask you that when we speak to BiH, we do not cross certain boundaries that I believe are inadmissible, which is that today we have explicitly heard from colleagues Vuksic and colleagues Grubisic that there is a third entity to be created there. The third entity is drawing borders, and when BiH's borders were drawn twenty and more years ago, this drawing of borders did no good to its peoples or its citizens. BiH has suffered a terrible war, paid the price of all political games from both left and right and I ask that we refrain from drawing, at least in this Parliament, from drawing some new divisions, some new borders. Of course, at a given moment, I hope as soon as possible, there will be one more quality solution for a functional state, but I would also like to warn you once again that the place to draw any cards or draw a solution for BiH is not in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u72007	A respected colleague, a debate and seeking a solution to equality in BiH in a democratic way, is not any interference but a political stance. This is not even an expression of the political attitude of institutions such as the Croatian Parliament, but rather the position of individual representatives of individual clubs. And as long as there are democratic rules of conduct in the Croatian Parliament, no one can take away their word to make their political views known. Let's go to the HDZ Club, respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u72008	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I agree with what you said, and I think it's about a forced stop that we didn't need because the debate could have been conducted in the context of an existing procedure, an existing Rules of Procedure. So, Mr. Hodzic, my colleague Hodzic, I don't think there really is anyone in this House who would question the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and that in a certain way you have misused this institute of rest because you obviously wanted to address your electoral body, which is legitimate, but really, from the discussions that were conducted there was no reason for this kind of intervention. Perhaps you could be asked as a Croatian citizen, don't you mind calling for the abolition of the canton? Don't you mind that as a constituent equal people in BiH on paper, Croatian people are not in real life? Well, if you might have performed that way and then put it all in balance then your exposure would be more credible. In this way, it seems to me that you did draw attention to only one part of the story, and not speak objectively enough about the real situation in BiH. BiH is a state of three constituent nations, Bosniaks, Croats and Serbs and it will remain or will not be. Croatia and about this there is almost a consensus of all important political parties in this House, insisting that Croats as a constitutional people as an equal people protect themselves from having a real position in real life, therefore not only in documents. The Croatian policy of the ruling and the opposition insists that BiH also gets its European path and is our interest in that and you said that the country is stable, we have thousands of kilometers of borders with it, it is our neighbouring country but there live representatives of the Croatian people, a large number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so it is quite legitimate to discuss and present different ideas about what BiH should look like. Even the EU Parliament, which is a novelty and representatives of the EU Parliament, has seen changes that have occurred in BiH and not only talk about the danger of BiH being separatism, but they are referring to the dangers of centralism or unitaryism of Sarajevo, and so we in the HDZ Representatives' Club, because I repeat once again, BiH can only survive as a country of three constituent equal peoples and, of course, the balance between the civil model and the three constituent peoples' model is something that will ensure the future, survival and the European perspective of BiH. That is why I call once again on all MPs in the Croatian Parliament to be unique in such principles to protect the interest of the Croatian people in BiH in giving strong support to the European path of BiH and to abandon these petty plantings and small speculation that someone in Croatia, someone in the Croatian Parliament, is insinuating some changes in territorial integrity or endangering BiH's sovereignty. It's something that I think is completely missed and that doesn't hold water at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u72009	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic on behalf of the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u72010	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, he would welcome your intervention after Mr. Hodzic spoke here and said what no one had said. So he said what he said from his own perspective or imagination, he said the most about himself, actually, about himself, he said the most about himself. So no one here drew a map of BiH, no one offered any napkins, etc. We all have the right to talk about what we think, what we think about, especially about the situation of Croats in BiH, about the state of BiH that I said I wish her every happiness within the borders she is now in. But I want happiness for all the three peoples in BiH that Ivo Andric spoke of, I suppose that bothers you that he said that both Croatian and Muslim and Serbian and that it is neither Croatian nor Muslim, is that possible? Do you mind Ivo Andric? Why do you even bother what I said? Or if the Croats didn't have the right to constitutionality, what did I do, did I draw the cards? I did say where Eggs is, where Glamoch is, where I don't know what it is either. What are you talking about here? Or you have your own ideas about it. I was born in Bosnia and Herzegovina and lived more than you lived in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so in total when I speak for exactly 23 years. I also lived with Muslims, now Bosniaks, at the time they were Muslims before the war, I lived with Serbs, I went to the baptismal glory and to the Bajrams, and I know how Bosnia breathes, much better than many who argue about it. Much, much better and lived in peace, harmony, side by side, no one bothered anyone, two churches, one mosque, so it's something that's normal to me. Therefore, do not speak of Bosnia and Herzegovina to me or mention my name. So I prefer, quite certainly and at least equal to Bosnia and Herzegovina, so even from you. And she's in my heart because I lived there and spent my youth and childhood. So I said that Mrs. Vesna Pusic was a year and a half ago that the Ministry gentlemen didn't even blink that she was talking about a third entity a year and a half ago. How come you didn't react to Vesna Pusic then? How did you not react when Mrs. Tuzla told Mr. Milanovic the public march from Bosnia and Herzegovina, then you did not stand up in your own word against it?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u72011	I'm a friend of Bora's.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u72012	I won't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u72013	You state your position and let your colleague Hodzic have the right to his views as well as you and I. Thank you very much. The next is the HDSSB club, no, wrong Croatian Labourists, and now there was a respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u72014	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. There is no napkin, as Mr Grubisic said, but there is no talking in gloves when we talk about it. It is our duty here in the Parliament to take care of the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Macedonia, Hungary, wherever the Croats are, it is our constitutional duty, our constitutional obligation. No one has ever drawn cards here in Parliament, never in Parliament talked about the division of any neighbouring country. And it's not my idea to talk about the division of Bosnia and Herzegovina. When I spoke, I replicated some of the exhibitions I advocated discussing the need to impose the topic of talks that would offer a solution to these tight relations in Bosnia and Herzegovina. There are no sides of the three sides in Bosnia and Herzegovina that are satisfied with Dayton, neither are Bosniaks satisfied, nor are they satisfied in Republika Srpska, nor are the Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens satisfied with the solution that Dayton offered. In my opinion, Dayton is unfair and I can say that as a representative at the Croatian Parliament. A high price for citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina is paid for it, and I agree with Mr Milanovic that European politicians should deal with issues in Bosnia and Herzegovina when eunuses should act. What happened in Bosnia and Herzegovina is not only the responsibility of Bosniaks, Serbs and Croats, the bearer of both Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is already the second under the mandate of the European Union, i.e. the International Community. Now that there's been a crisis, there's only damage remedied. There's no courage and the foreign minister had the courage a few months or a year ago, a year and a half ago to suggest and I think she was right and she did the right thing and she just suggested, and she didn't draw the cards either. She said it might be one of the third entity's solutions. I think he's right, and I'm pushing for that conversation, to suggest if you will, if that's more acceptable to you to discuss the third entity. And normally, neither Zagreb nor Belgrade will decide on it. But our duty is to help. It is our duty to help find a solution to the overall Bosnia and Herzegovina but there will be no permanent conflicts in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, in which there will be no guns, in Bosnia and Herzegovina that will live in peace. And that's ours. This condition today is certainly not good. Well, it's not a good thing when a parliamentary representative, our colleague, says that we draw cards on a napkin, that's not good because we didn't do it and we don't do it. And here we want to do what the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia obliges us to do. And we can't... More is being discussed in some other European countries, some other crises than are being discussed about Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And why would it be a sin? And I don't think the MPs who discussed it, who imposed that topic, were wrong. And once again, Parliament is a place of discussion, of controversy, of where it is proposed, of political thought, of political speaking. As long as the hatred is not encouraged, until the division is encouraged, I think every speech in the Croatian Parliament is acceptable, and also the talk about three entities that I repeat will choose those concerned, not us in the Croatian Parliament. But we have a duty and obligation to propose and think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u72015	Thank you, too. We move on to an individual debate of the representatives on the same subject. Dear Representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u72016	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just to get my colleagues out of here. And I will return to the topic, report on the implementation of the official development aid to the Republic of Croatia abroad for 2012. ... No, everything's fine, just do it, so... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] These two minutes are only going in the working hours of Mr. Klisovic and her co-worker. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you for staying. I'm sorry, but today our beans have fallen so we've stayed here a little longer, but I think the subject is extremely interesting. The report itself was said a little bit more by Foreign Minister and certainly on behalf of the HNS club, Liberal Democrats my colleague Igor Coleman, and these are ours, both our positions. I'd like to look back on the subject in another way. Namely, many of us have living memories of despair and suffering as we were shot and destroyed by our homes, villages and cities, bombs and grenades of the Serb aggressor. They're still living memories of shock and infidelity that it's even possible that something like this is happening to us at all. We've been writing applications, sending petitions, desperately seeking understanding and assistance from the international community. With every moment, we've been terrified whether one of our monuments, our cultural or other identity, will be destroyed even more strongly. We called the Observers, we were gathering world intellectuals, the Nobels were writing petitions, we were still desperate for international help. We could hardly wait for the blue-and-white helmets, and eventually help came in people, from doctors to scientists, experts, journalists, soldiers. and many unknown foreigners have lost our lives in Croatia to help us Croatian citizens in a fair fight for freedom and human dignity. Praise them and thank you. Millions of dollars, stamps, kunas, liras, francs, yen and at the end of the euro, met as a solid, selfless help in restoring our troubled young country. This solidarity of the world community, the UN, the European Union and individual states have helped to make Croatia easier, faster, more successful, feet-on axles and, in addition to all the difficulties of transition, war, difficult processes of joining NATO and the European Union, become a medium-developed country with a very clear perspective that in the relatively soon future, there will be a line of developed countries of the world. Regardless of the overall technological and communication development of the world, humanity has many other great tasks. This and the immediate future generations are responsible for finding ways, maintaining peace and stability on all meridians and parallels of this tiny globe of ours. It is primarily necessary to find fast ways to relieve people's suffering, especially children and women in areas affected by various crises, from war over natural disasters to various epidemics of disease. Clearly, even stronger universal emergency mechanisms and preventive prevention of war conflicts need to be established, as well as timely forecasting of natural disasters. One of our own direct tasks is to stop hunger in the world. We liberals are convinced of the universality of human rights. Human rights are simply everywhere and for all alike. Where they are threatened, we are obliged to point to them, so wherever they may be. In the context of the possibility, concrete assistance should also be acted upon. The Croatian state thanks to God and has the power to actively participate in concrete aids to many countries, and therefore this report is valuable for getting to know the wider public and this extremely important, although given the circumstances in the material sense of the modest activity of Croatia. It is well noted when discussing this report, a few important data, which is, for example, official development assistance to competent authorities in percentages. The most isolated was the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, which is good, smart and logical. Then there is the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and the Ministry of Health. It seems to me that something has failed the Ministry of Culture and I would be glad that the Ministry of Culture is giving something more than 1% of the total aid. According to geographical priorities, assistance is the most days of JI Europe, which is quite logical. After that, Asia, the Pacific, the Middle East and multi-state cooperation. The most widely given, it has already been said, was BiH, and this was given in education by 32 million 595 thousand 451 kuna, to health care of 6 million 982 thousand 290 kuna. These are real help, concrete assistance to our friends in BiH. In all, it has already been said, 124 million 940 thousand are given 76 kuna, the highest of BiH and then to Montenegro, Afghanistan, Syria, Kosovo, Palestine, Myanmar, Namibia, Serbia, Mauricius, Macedonia, Kenya, Iraq, Tajihstan, Lebanon,... Zimbabwe, Turkey and Moldova. Very commendable, too bad we can't take it anymore. However, it does not always have to be in money and material means, regardless of their necessity. Help can be in the transfer of knowledge, experience, and sometimes a simple honest empathy is enough. The importance of international assistance and international attention we in Croatia understand something better than some other countries. That is why it is unusually important to set ourselves up in this way. It would certainly be nicer and better if we were richer, if we could help even more. But this range of help and a particular quality of help, I would stress here that Afghanistan makes us happier and happier to live as citizens in a country that takes its responsibility for the problem of the world community seriously and takes it seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u72017	Thank you very much. Finally, on behalf of the proposing, respected Deputy Foreign and European Minister Josko Klisovic, the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u72018	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me first and foremost assure you all together that all representatives of the Croatian Parliament that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, although I believe that those who are sitting here right now do not need to be particularly involved in the subject of Bosnia and Herzegovina within the European Union with all ministers, whether in the frameworks and formats that the Union gives. We are initiating a debate on Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are dating initiatives and proposals. As far as the subject is concerned, the 2012 Official Development Assistance Report. I listened very reliably to everything that was said and I would like to thank you for a really constructive discussion of all the clubs that participated in both the MPs and the representatives who participated. But a few more notes, perhaps. It is mentioned that development aid should be better imported into foreign policy. Yeah, that's what we need, and that's exactly what we're working very hard on. This is also the logic of why we have proposed establishing an inter-resor group so that everything we give abroad to foreign-political objectives can be brought closer, whether it is about trying to try our companies on certain foreign markets, whether it is about trying to invest additionally in bilateral relations with neighbours or with other major strategic partners of Croatia as we do in Afghanistan. Human rights are high on our agenda so, of course, we have projects that concern human rights, that we want to promote them in the world and we want to be recognizable by that. As for several concrete remarks, it was, for example, Serbia, why it is given to Serbia. We give Serbia most of the scholarships to Croatians for study and most of the study takes place in Croatia. But we will do much more with Serbs because we want Serbia to join the EU as soon as possible, because we think it will also be in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, a lot of development aid will go through technical assistance in Serbia's reforms where we will organise, seek seminars or send our experts to help them. Not only is the aquis or translations of the acquis with days so far, that it has given the government of Mrs. Kosor but I must say that every year we give the updated version to our neighbours. Last year it was standing I think in the report 8 million kuna cost such a translation, so that... the updated part since the aquis is one living body that develops from year to year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as education is concerned, it was mentioned and I think it's very important for all the reasons that were mentioned here not to mention me again. Many countries appear to us with the requirement to give them scholarships in technical professions such as shipbuilding, engineering, electrical engineering or medicine. And we, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, together with the Zagreb University, organized a study, a diplomatic study, and we will also offer it as a kind of development aid to some other countries and all of that within the goals of Croatian economic diplomacy. Because if you want to take out a ship somewhere and if any of our shipyards are ready to run technology. Then you're looking for that educational segment to educate their engineers. Therefore, all this must be tied to foreign policy, to the goals that we have ahead of us in order to make sense. Bosnia and Herzegovina I am pleased that you have actually supported the concept of going to smaller projects that will make some difference, i.e. the current situation, that money is not scattered into many, very small and that three fundamental areas are supported. They are health care, it is education, and they are strengthening institutional capacities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where we will help to acquire knowledge of how projects for EU funds are written, in order for Bosnia and Herzegovina to be able to apply as much for European money as possible. The theatre in Mostar is important and no one has ever said that it is giving up in terms of developmental assistance. The report says that, in fact, to study justification, that is to show what is the best modality to respond to the needs of people in Mostar, which concerns theatres. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-21-0.u72019	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. This concludes the debate. We'll vote on the report when the conditions are met. Now we're gonna stop the session. I schedule a new, continuation of the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament on 26 February, Wednesday at 9.30 p.m. with an enormous probability that we will be working on the Proposal for a Law on Labour and the European Association of the Second and Workers' European Councils. But I have to say it with caution that it's possible that we could still make a different arrangement. It's still social partners' contacts. It's correct to say that. Thank you very much. Good weekend. I'll see you on boards and clubs Monday. Session interrupted 13.40 hours. We are now going to declare the acts we have done in the Croatian Parliament in the past week. The first is the 2012 report on the implementation of the official development assistance of the Republic of Croatia abroad. The debate on the report is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "The 2012 report on the implementation of the official development aid to the Republic of Croatia abroad is accepted. A year.". Please raise your hand to plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of the 103 votes in favour and 3 abstentions are accepted by the proposed conclusion.
