ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85578	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If you allow me to address you or I will have to ask for a break, and the topic was yesterday published information that the President of the Republic of Croatia has sent you as President of the Parliament a letter which, according to media interpretations, concerns the power and role of the Croatian Parliament in political life in the Republic of Croatia. Do I have to ask for a break to explain?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85579	Can I help you if you're ready?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85580	I do.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85581	Go, talk. Has anyone else been looking? Yeah. HDSSB respected representative Josip Salapic, well, Croatian Labourists, just to write down, Vesna Škare-Ozbolt also, Jadranka Kosor, Damir Cain. ... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Cain, buy a ticket once and then wait for the win. Please submit some material, make some material, prepare that we can all participate in your grades and your proposal, write something, write a colleague of Cain something. ... Let's get this straight. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A colleague, Lesar, asked for a break, i.e. to speak about the letter of the president, and then Salapic Josip, Vesna Škare-Ozbolt and respected representative Jadranka Kosor, and Mlakar. ... Okay, I didn't see it, it doesn't matter how big it is, it's where you look at your colleague, I can't see it in the back, I can't see it on the side either. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay, fifth, Shucker or colleague of the Mlakar? He's a colleague of the Mlakars. We have five on one subject, the sixth is Caine for his theme. They're standards. Here's your colleague, Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85582	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. During yesterday's first day, only media speculation was that the President of the Republic, Mr Ivo Josipovic, wrote to the President of the Parliament, Mr Leka. During the afternoon, both the President of the Republic and the President of the Parliament have publicly confirmed the existence of such a letter and in the media it is presented that this letter refers to the role, mission and position of the Croatian Parliament in terms of the decision-making and creation of works of the electoral system, that is to say, the social political arrangement in the Republic of Croatia, but they were only concerned with the preferential vote. I am not sure that the President of the Republic deals only with this topic, so I would be free to give you the corrections of this proposal and the conduct of the letter you received from the President of the Republic with regard to the letter yesterday. At this point, I will not enter into either motives or any authority to address the Croatian Parliament in this way, but rather from the fact that such a letter has come. Since on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament there are 3 legislative proposals on the same subject, modification, change, change of election model of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, I believe all the conditions for this to be opened. I do not consider it necessary for this topic to be discussed by the Bureau of the Parliament, where it can be achieved or provided that any arrangements are reached at the Parliament's presidency. I must remind myself that at the session of the Bureau of Parliament on September 09, I asked the President of the Parliament to have these agenda points with 51, 52, 53, which were then included in those seats raised more to open the debate in the Assembly as soon as possible. The President of the Parliament refused to raise these points with the reason that it would do everything possible for the Government to give an opinion on the proposed laws in order to create non-business conditions rather than usual practice for the debate to be opened when the Government gave its opinion. Unfortunately, Mr. President, even the parent committees of the bill do not want to put these proposals on the agenda even though they were asked to do so. That is why I believe that the only way to remove the dilemmas and not let parliamentary representatives through the newspapers know what the President of the Republic is telling the Parliament, first, is to multiply and deliver the letter to all MPs. I think that we have the right to know the full content of a letter which, in my opinion, is not private but official and if the President of the Republic as an institution addresses the other representative of the institution, the President of the Parliament, that this cannot remain only between the two of them and that all MPs have the right to see the contents of this letter completely. And secondly, if it is true that the emphasis in this letter has been placed on the electoral system and only wishes to introduce... the vote, to see if there is any possibility of an agreement in the Croatian Parliament on the subject, it is a way to open the debate in the working bodies for it prescribed by the Rules of Procedure and at the plenary session. The more the Prime Minister Milanovic, after having three requests for a clear and public opinion in his drawers, appeared publicly and spoke about the leadership of... the vote, and failed to fulfil his obligation to place views on the agenda of the government's meetings on opposition proposals. That way again, he personally as Prime Minister... opens a debate on opposition proposals, and a way to resist it in the House, Mr. President, to open a plenary debate without the government's opinion and thus exert additional pressure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85583	Thank you very much. Thank you. Dear Representative Josip Salapic on behalf of the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85584	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, it is no wonder that the president of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Josipovic, is speaking to the Croatian Parliament. We consider this, in front of the HDSSB club, normal communication, primarily because it is created in public by certain pressures, and the pressure has started as early as September 21st when the "In Family Name" initiative began to collect signatures for a referendum titled "We choose representatives by name and last name". I will remind the public, as well as the Croatian Parliament, that somewhere in mid-September, the HDSSB club sent a memo to the president of the Parliament where we asked for a meeting of all the club presidents and presidents of the Parliament to meet the club presidents before the signing began, and to try to launch an initiative to move on our own to change the electoral legislation. That's how in our country, everything is nakaradic, and so democracy has become nakaradian. So when a government government becomes unnatural, when it comes to the nation, then every week we have an initiative for a referendum, simply because the people want to take the decision on the important issues of Croatia into their own hands. We do not see anything disputed in front of the HDSSB club that the Parliament does not calculate whether the initiative has collected enough signatures, whether it is 350, 380 or 450 thousand, according to us the Croatian Constitution is clear, that it refers to voters in the Republic of Croatia. So now we're going to interpret the Constitution as it suits someone at a certain point, then we're going to call on the Constitutional Court, which we also support, that the Constitutional Court gives its assessment of it. And regardless of the rating, whether the number of signatures is enough or not, we believe that even 380 thousand Croatian citizens are sufficient... To the Croatian Parliament to go alone to change the law. The amendments to the law are not required because someone likes or does not like being on such an electoral system, a name and a last name or no name, behind the lap of political parties, but simply creates the mistrust of the people in parliament, in politics in general, other than the economic crisis, government and political crisis and moral crisis. If we ourselves do not accept what the people ask of us, no matter how many signatures there are, we will begin our own nation, and represent the National Parliament, we represent the highest body of government in the Republic of Croatia. No matter who the president sent you a letter to, President-in-Office of the Parliament needed the Prime Minister or the president of clubs or all MPs, it is important that given the large number of citizens who signed this initiative for a referendum on the environment that the government, on the increasing pressure of the public, that the Croatian Parliament and Parliament return their legal constitutional role. See what happens to the highway monetization, on its own chance, and that referendum will succeed. We've had a referendum on the definition of marriage, we'll have a lot of referendums if we continue like this. So we invite all Parliament presidents to hold a session of the Croatian Parliament Presidency together with all club representatives to try to agree on our own in this first part that we at least go to this part of the amendment of the electoral law concerning direct elections or the preferential vote for MPs, taking into account the shortness of time and reaching Christmas by the end of the year not to enter that deadline of one year to change election laws. This is primarily our constitutional obligation, given that the people are asking us to do so. And all those who are afraid to be on the list for a reason whether they have a high or no popularity in the polls simply suggest that they put themselves in the back place, and then one vote if they give themselves will be enough to succeed because they don't have to be afraid of the one in front of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85585	Thank you too, dear colleague. There's a respected representative of the Vesna Scare Ozbolt on behalf of the club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85586	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. When the president of the state writes a letter to the President of the Parliament then he writes a letter to all MPs in the Croatian Parliament and I hold that all MPs should get the letter on the bench. I do not hold anything disputed in this, but apparently the president of the state has also concluded that there is another incentive for the Parliament itself, or the parliamentary majority, to finally include and put on the daily work, or to debate the electoral law. What I find interesting is that the President of the Republic in that letter, at least what is written in the media, also mentions constitutional changes. So, it is extremely important that this Parliament finally takes a position, and we have enough time until the 2nd month of what kind of electoral model, whether it remains like this or maybe we will modify it on a mixed basis, which I personally think is much better because in this way it will enable one new quality of people who would be elected directly to the Assembly, so 1/3 could be directly elected, and 2/3 over the list and thus, in our club, we could reconcile that interest in the stability of the government, but also in a stronger and better quality coming of direct people to the Croatian Parliament. I therefore believe that this letter should be given to all MPs on the table. After that, call on the President of the Parliament not only the presidency but also the presidents and the general presidents of the Parliament and put this issue on the agenda to prepare quality proposals in time, and the deadline is sometime next year until the 2nd month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85587	Thank you, too, fellow Members of the Vesna Skara Ozbolt. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85588	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. We don't have to write to the president of the Republic of Croatia to do our job, but since the president wrote, of course, that his letter should be taken into account. I agree with colleagues who have said this is a letter to the President of the Croatian Parliament but then to the Parliament as a whole because the presidents are the first among the equals and I also expect today to have the text of the President of the Republic of Croatia on our benches, but also today, Mr. President, we agree on what you announced yesterday, a session of the presidency with the club presidents to agree on the date on which we will open a debate on the change of electoral legislation. Why? Because on the agenda here's 35. By the 40th point, there are several proposals from MPs, representatives' clubs, one which initially supported thirty MPs in the Croatian Parliament, and we talked about this and a few of us at a press conference a few days ago and asked the President of the Croatian Parliament to discuss when the debate will open. So the minimum of what we expect is to agree on when we start these discussions. Of course, we can also take into account what the President of the Republic proposes, but above all, the proposals for amending the electoral legislation that comes from the Clubs of Representatives. In the system of parliamentary democracy, we can today, after this debate, ask the Prime Minister to give opinions on these proposals and that this debate be held as soon as possible. Because on the other hand we have collected the signatures of the "In the Name of the Family" initiative and, according to my interpretation, the Constitution is sufficient for the number of signatures because the Constitution in Article 87 clearly states that it is about voters in the Republic of Croatia, and that whoever prepared the Constitution is therefore a constitutional creator, and that was all of us, we wanted to determine more precisely who this even applies to, then it would be written in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And on the third hand, of course 78% of the citizens we have seen and in the previous Euro elections are required to decide and require a preferential vote. It is our duty and it is my opinion that the President of the Republic of Croatia warns that it is our duty to talk about it and make some decisions. There is time, because the beginning of that election year, which everyone talks about a lot, and a little who is actually getting into the right analysis, which means it starts in February 2015. Therefore, all those who do not want any change are always used with the floscule need a comprehensive change, we must have a lot of time. We also have a lot of time to discuss these bill proposals in two readings. We have time in three readings if necessary. But the Croatian Parliament cannot ignore on the one hand what might be popularally called the voice of the people, and on the other hand the initiative of the Croatian Parliament, or representatives. The President of the Republic, of course, until the end of his term of office, regardless of how this was interpreted, has the right to initiative, and citizens and citizens will assess whether it is good in the elections that will soon be or will be bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85589	Thank you, too, dear colleague. A respected representative of his colleague Davorin Mlakar is on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85590	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We took advantage of the possibility to talk on behalf of the club about the same subject and we were thinking about how to start this reaction at all, because we know more about this correspondence from the daily press than we believe we would have the right to know. The shortest we can say in the media is the fact that the President of the Republic of Croatia wrote to the President of the Croatian Parliament. He didn't write dr. Ivo Josipovic to Mr. Josip Leki, but they changed their letters, or letter sent to one institution to another institution, and then we learned in the media that based on this letter whose content we do not know, at least some parts will be held session of the Assembly Presidency. As the predecessors said, if the institution of the President of the Republic sent a letter with certain proposals to the Croatian Parliament, then it is minimum correct that the MPs who should be pleading on some issues receive the benches of the letter, to see what it is at all. On the one hand, we see this as an aid in the pre-election campaign of the President of the Republic, who decided at the end of the fifth year of his term to begin correspondence with other institutions and to reveal some of the topics on which he has remained silent for almost 5 years. On the other hand, we hear that he is opening the issue of preferential voting, which has been delayed for at least three or four years, because the preferential vote on the HDZ government initiative has been introduced into the Croatian legislation for the first elections for the European Parliament. Therefore, the president did not introduce anything. The president has served in public-accepted topics to draw attention to himself and his pre-election campaign, and that is the point of this topic that we are talking about today. On the other hand, we do not know what he said in the letter, and I believe that we will get at least after these performances as parliamentary representatives a letter to see what he wants the President of the Republic to say and what he wants to do to the Parliament, who is constantly subordinated to this Government of the Republic of Croatia, finally to get a position in the political life that belongs to him and to decide on the essential issues of political life in the country. Given all of this, the only thing we could find was that it had something to do with this correspondence between our President of the Republic is Article 94. The Constitution, which states in paragraph 2, that the President of the Republic is concerned about regular and coordinated action and the stability of state authorities. That the state government is unstable, inoperable and absolutely far from the demands of today's time it's clear to all of us for three years. It is good that the president saw it at least before the end of his term, but it would have been more correct if we had discussed it while there was a time and until the discussion of these things was identified with his election campaign. I will remind the Croatian public and colleagues in this Parliament that when it comes to setting a date for the president of the elections for the first term of Mr Ivo Josipovic, the opposition then bombed the government for months to determine the exact date of the election so that everyone who reflected in these elections had time to prepare. Today, less than two months before the election date, the government has yet to say anything about the election date. It's no longer a political issue today, it doesn't matter to anyone today. Mr. Josipovic's final initiative after media knowledge that he had the documents probably with state secrets and delivered it to some ambassadors tells how he understood his first term. It is high time that, instead of his letter, the Parliament took office and held a debate on electoral legislation in its own way as the Constitution had set it for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85591	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85592	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I understand that the task of representatives in the Croatian Parliament as representatives of the people is to preserve the dignity and autonomy of this representative body as a premise for acting autonomously and in accordance with the Constitution of each of us 150 representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. And that's why I called Mr. President on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club. Representatives and MPs and the Croatian Parliament in full, I have spoken of this on several occasions, are subject to a multiannual and targeted and systematic devasting as an institution, I am not talking about us as individuals, I am talking about the representative body of the people we represent. Is this letter, which we have not seen, which, with the right of colleagues and colleagues, requires us to see and which is announced in one media as a dramatic warning of the state of the state of the country and the nation, does this letter contain such content and has such a motive that representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament will be able to work on a greater autonomy of the Croatian Parliament and on a greater stability of the political system of the Republic of Croatia? I can't say I know the answer to that question because I haven't seen the content of that question, but from what you can read in the media the answer is not and will not. Because, Mr. President, there is a danger that the Croatian Parliament is being abused at the time of the election campaign that has not yet been declared. And we must avoid it, even if it comes from the address of the President of the Republic. And it is your duty, Mr. President, to do so and avoid the minimum risk of using the Croatian Parliament in pre-election campaigns, a campaign that has not begun. And of you as a multi-year representative in this House who has on several occasions spoken of what is happening to the representative body of the people I demand here. Secondly, the Croatian Parliament must have autonomy in relation to other authorities. She's often gone. Very often she's gone. Sometimes it is understandable because there are political majority that are at risk of the government being supported. But the parliament must have autonomy from other institutions, including public opinion which does not have to be dictated by political parties, which can be dictated by various other groups. And it must have autonomy if it is necessary from the President of the Republic if the President of the Republic in any way tries to influence the opinion, opinions of representatives or club representatives in the Croatian Parliament. I would understand if the President of the Republic had asked this question, sent this letter at a time of riot in Vukovar and a violation of one of the fundamental values of the Croatian Constitution and that is national equality. He didn't do it. I would understand that the President of the Republic called this letter and sent this letter and indicated whether it was possible that between key political actors in Croatia, between the SDP and HDZ, there has been no relevant political dialogue in Croatia for 4 or 5 years. He didn't do it. If he had called and sent a letter to the government about the economic situation that we have in the country that threatens the elementary security of not citizens but the state I would understand that question and that letter. But he didn't do it. He did it on the subject of preference. What is the point of preference is the fate of the stability of the political system of the Republic of Croatia when we already know that a procedure has been initiated in the Parliament and in the Government to discuss it and to find a solution, and I personally have nothing against it because all the mandates I have spent in the Assembly have been chosen according to a preferential principle. And for that reason, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85593	Thank you very much. Time's up. Damir Caine on the other subject, and then, of course, I'm going to have to show myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85594	Mr. President, I absolutely agree with Mr. Pupovac Parliament not to abuse, Parliament's autonomy must be condicio son qua non, Parliament above all, above Parliament only the Constitution or constitutional laws. Speaking of this letter to the President of the Republic, I like his constitutional initiative, which speaks of redefining the referendum and about a different model of the electoral system where one half of the MPs would be elected directly in election units and one half of the list. It's the only way the citizens will be in a position to choose directly. Everything else is a simple game, including with this preferential voice. So, MPs are elected as mayors, commissioners, as is finally elected by the President of the Republic himself. I also like his initiative that the lists cannot be those against which the DORH has filed an indictment proposal or who have received some punishment from the competent judicial institutions. I also agree with what Mrs. Kosor said that this interpretation is also an extremely important political issue. If you can't collect signatures abroad, then by some logic of the people it shouldn't be counted, but it will certainly be decided by the Constitutional Court. So once again, MPs will be elected directly to the constituency and only then will Parliament be restored to dignity. The electoral system wanted someone to admit it or not is the source of this country's crisis. According to that Bible "If at first it were a word" and the same thing when it came to politics at first it was an electoral system or some electoral law. However, I do not know how many times I want to invite President of the Parliament to finally use my authority and try to provide me with information as much as the City of Pula and other Istrian cities and municipalities spend on the media and the PR agencies. Speaking of these media down in Istria, even the one not to name him Hitler's propagandaist wasn't as ruthless as this team holding executive power. Those 15 million kunas of public money spend on the media and the PR agencies. If it's not corruption, then I don't know what corruption is. And I purposely say it in front of the President of the Parliament and the Croatian public as I spoke before Mr Cvitan of the DORH so I say it in front of the Minister of Justice. Clearly, the DORH doesn't do anything, the police aren't allowed to do anything, and the tax administration doesn't even know what they're going to do. If someone in HDZ did, they'd pass as Sanader, if someone in the SDP did, we'd know how to get through it, if they did it in another party or another party, or a third would go through it like those in HDZ or SDP, but obviously down there can be what they want. Otherwise, I should just say that the tax administration of the Republic of Croatia, at 1240 citizens, is investigating the disproportionateness between income on the one hand and taxes paid. In Istria, that's the case with about 64 of them. I guess that tax administration will finally do it right, starting with itself, from judges, the director of municipal companies to local politicians who, and I know at least 50 of them in two or three terms, have come to an asset estimated at 2 or more million euros. To go back to those media again, in the late 1980s, so I'm going to say that was when we talk about media in these areas some realm of freedom, it was written what was wanted, in the early '90s it wasn't like that but it was good, but what's been down there since 2006 or 2012, it's something I think is invisible in Croatian media or political space. When this Kim Il Sung or Un who we were looking for here in the Parliament seven days ago, he didn't show up in their public I thought he came down to us and he was learning from Mr Mikulić, Miletic, Jakovčić, Borovecki how to edit the media and pull where he came from. Once again I will say, 15 million kunas of public money goes annually to the media and goes to the PR agencies in Istrian spaces and this practice needs to be stopped because historianry is not a robbery, historianry is not a kidnapping and also europeanism is not the conversion of Istria into an empire of media freedoms.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85595	Thank you very much. Dear fellow MPs and respected fellow MPs. The value of Parliament in principle is what we have done today, no matter what matter is not prepared. And the representatives of the clubs held their views on one environment, the circumstance that an undeclared public debate over the electoral system was being conducted in public. It is in democracy quite logical and initiatives in democratic society are welcome. Even within the Croatian Constitution, we have several initiatives to change the electoral system and different levels. Since it is not and is not intended for anyone to sum up this public debate and it is necessary to have a minimum of community to be able to discuss structuredly, clearly what we are going to discuss. Then I see no reason to avoid a meeting of the Parliament Presidency, which is for the sake of the public, I must say, consist of the President of the Parliament, the Vice-President of the Parliament, the Secretary of Parliament, all the presidents of the Clubs of Representatives and the Croatian Parliament. Of course, such a debate will not take away anyone's autonomous right, any club, any individual representative, to decide, in accordance with his conscience and constitution, without an imperative mandate on any subject found on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament. So nothing's usurped. Secondly, the Croatian Parliament as an institution is not dependent on other institutions, it was not, nor now and I hope it will not be. But the Croatian Parliament is that part of the democratic system of the Republic of Croatia is also bound by the principle of rule of law. that it is so well known to the Croatian public and to you in the Croatian Parliament that, in accordance with the Constitution and the division of power, the three-division of the constitutional authority, but also the democratic institution and category, the Constitutional Court is the only one that assesses the constitutionality of our acts. It is not in the standard, the democratic standard that the President of the Assembly will share or share all letters with the MPs, but this is really about a letter from the President of the Republic that has constitutional weight and will be submitted to the letter, not only to the representatives of the Croatian Parliament after we at least try to talk at the Presidency about... things that could be put on the agenda when it comes to amendments and amendments or even a proposal for election changes. So the letter will be delivered. The letter is based on a study that the President of the Republic, I hope, will send to the public and it is his obligation to do so, not the President of the Parliament, which is not his research. Different ideas and different ways that MPs today have different views are welcome for the debate in the Croatian Parliament, but from what is going on, and you agree with me today, it seems to me that it is very important to try to find a consensus of political forces in the Croatian Parliament to strengthen the influence of Croatian citizens, voters on who will represent them and represent them in representative bodies, either the Parliament, any county, any cities or municipalities. Of course no one can order you in the benches or anyone has a purpose, or anyone in their subconscious had such a thing, but democracy is, in a way, a compromise, and an attempt to seek compromise in parliament, I think it's a good way and is not usurped by any of the rights they have. Whether we have Tuesday or Friday's session of Parliament's presidency, I don't think that's a dramatic thing. If it's Friday, you'll get calls and a letter with a call on Friday. If it's on Tuesday, you'll also get a call tomorrow and a letter with a call. And the attempt is for club presidents to feel in common where the consensus could be found, at which the consensus could be reached. This would shorten the time, and perhaps reduce tensions in Croatian society and some and time of work in the Croatian Parliament. Something else may not have to be said from here, but no electoral system, no so far in the world, which determines or defines or limits the way the government will rule. Government control requires social democratic institutions, dialogue is needed and responsibility is needed, and that includes responsibility for us in the Parliament and social institutions. From the Constitutional Court, citizens also, associations of citizens and other social institutions. So we'll go back to the beginning. You will, of course, receive all the letters, both you and the Croatian public, tomorrow. It depends whether we call the presidency on Friday or Tuesday next. Tomorrow you will receive a letter from the President of the Republic sent to the President of the Parliament. And you already know the subject. I don't see any reason to get nervous, it's an incentive that's legal, constitutional and that's the way to see it. No one will order any member of the Croatian Parliament or the club of representatives, because he cannot or can not, it is his autonomous will. It also retains the Croatian Parliament as an institution with full autonomy. The second thing is how one of us is addicted and addicted, we can discuss it. It's a legitimate debate, a legitimate request, but not in the context of a plenary session like this. Now, if you would allow, we would move to the established agenda by the points set out on the agenda. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues continue with the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. We have a common situation. The HDZ Club has given up the hand of respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85597	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament is no ordinary situation at all. Thank God, so the Croatian media is very well informed and parliamentary representatives who are often the subject of public mockery because of this, because of this, they finally managed to see the letter sent to you by the President of the Republic as President of the Parliament. I think this is something that is inadmissible, it is an inadmissible relationship with parliamentary deputies, it is unacceptable for the president to speak in his letter about the trio of power and this is the third pillar of power, and this is this legislative Parliament, you see that it practically doesn't exist. And don't say it's something common, this is an attempt to protect this tall home and these 150 people chosen by Croatian citizens. We had you yesterday, so 6 clubs were talking about that we would like to see that letter, because that letter was sent to all of us through you and this is unfortunately tragic what is happening in the Republic of Croatia. That the president of the state put the paper out before the MPs see it. And I'm asking you to take a break on behalf of the HDZ Club and I think it would be good if we opened the debate on this letter, because this is something, if this happens, this is something that introduces a practice that can be devastating for the legitimacy of the Croatian Parliament, executed. Because this letter is not harmless at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85598	Your Honored colleague, are you looking for a break or do you want to dramatize it without business rights?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85599	I'm looking for a break, Mr. President. No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85600	So you've already used three minutes to talk about what you feel is, or political need, dramatic and I don't see any dramatics or reason for traumatizing. The letter sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament is the most normal communication between the branches of the government. If you feel that the President of the Republic has no right to stand on political matters in Croatia, it will be your problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85601	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, you have abused the Rules of Procedure because you can't paralyze me. I asked for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85602	Please, nice. Let me finish, and you can speak when I give you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85603	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85604	For now, that's how it's gonna stay. You want a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85605	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85606	I'll give you five minutes off. Take your stand. Anyone else need a break? So, HDZ, SDP, HDSSB and Vuksic, the club of representatives, three MPs and Damir Kai's independent list, Vuksic and Slavko Linic cannot have two at the same club. I'm setting a break at 9.40. Ten minutes, 9.45. Thank you. [[CONTINUES AFTER A MEETING IN 9,42 HOURS]] We begin with the presentation and presentation of the views of clubs related to the topic opened by the HDZ Club. I'd like to ask my esteemed colleague Davorin Mlakar to present the position of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85608	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, as Honorable colleague Shucker explained in his request for a break, we asked for this 5-minute break to be shown about the fact that correspondence between the President of the Republic and the President of the Croatian Parliament was correspondence. Yesterday, 6 clubs asked for insight into the contents of the letter, which for the first time in Croatian history, the President of the Republic referred to the President of the Croatian Parliament and we asked, that is, to ask politely for the President of the Parliament to introduce us to the contents of the letter. It seems that it was a completely wrong address because the contents of the letter were introduced to us by editors and journalists of the daily newspaper in the Republic of Croatia, and we were waiting tensely as little children when the President of the Parliament finally decided to submit the letter to us. From the stories that the Parliament's presidency will first meet to the promise that we would finally have the text of that letter on the bench today. You said Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament that it was nothing dramatic, but the contents of the letter and the way the President of the Republic works is very dramatic. And everything again as a candidate of the SDP for the future, possible president of the Republic of Croatia. He speaks in his letter about the dramatic situation in the country, but not about the real problems of the economy, the problem of how the state sinks from day to day in all its segments, but solely because it would strengthen its campaign in the election for the president of the Republic of Croatia. So he also used the Croatian Parliament to use what it says for the sole purpose of his election campaign. You, Mr. President, were obliged to protect the integrity of the Croatian Parliament and all its representatives. You are responsible that we were not already familiar with the contents of this letter yesterday and discussed the facts set out in the letter, for example that the President of the Republic is the Proposer of the Constitution and is of this function he believes should be written to the Croatian Assembly. But he does not write about changes to the Constitution, he writes only about some things that seemed to him as a listener, composer, important because he noticed that they had become controversial in the Croatian public. It is, for example, a preferential vote in the future elections and again because of the Croatian public. HDZ is a party that has introduced a preferential vote in the Croatian legislation in elections for the European Parliament. And because of all those who are planting lies today, we should again say we are the ones who have put in the preferential vote and we are the ones who will support the preferential vote. But we will not support the policy to take it or leave it, the only question we will discuss in the election system's changes. Nor will we be silent that today the President of the Republic appears again because of his election campaign as the bearer of the idea of a preferential vote because it seems to him to be a good idea. And at least we will allow the Croatian Parliament to be a victim of its political ambitions, that we may be used in its pre-election game without even being able to talk about it. And for that reason, Mr. President, because of the fact that you missed yesterday what you were supposed to do and instead of getting acquainted from the media with the important things and facts, or the references in this letter, that we discussed yesterday, we ask you to today's first item of the agenda, and in your business it is possible for you to be the subject of things that are being done in the letter of the President of the Republic. Instead of these tricks for election purposes, do something useful for what is the fundamental function of Parliament, which is that we here as representatives of the people talk about the facts contained in this letter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85609	Thank you, Your Honor. On behalf of the SDP club in the Croatian Parliament, the respected representative and vice president of the House, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85610	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, the letter sent by the President of the Republic to the President of the Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution for all those who do not know the Constitution or who do not want to stick to it or who do not want to understand it, Article 94(2) states: "The President of the Republic takes care of the regular and coordinated action and the stability of the state government."and Article 4(2) reads: "The principle of the division of the authorities includes forms of mutual cooperation and mutual checks of the holder of the authority prescribed by the Constitution and the law.". Therefore, the President of the Republic shall act in accordance with the Constitution by writing to the President of the Parliament. There's no drama in it, no drama. Dramatism is not seen and according to what the President of the Parliament said, he announced that he would call a regular session of the Assembly Presidency in an extended assembly to which club presidents were invited, and he would introduce them to the letter that the President of the Republic sent him, and club presidents could then meet members of his club if they wanted to. I don't know why the HDZ gentlemen are showing this kind of anxiety. I don't know why I'm making them nervous. With my performance, I believe I'm making you nervous. The third thing, the letter sent by the President of the Republic to the President of the Parliament is not a letter sent to all MPs as you do not know from what because see that the President of the Republic wanted to send a letter to all MPs he would have sent it to all MPs, not to the President of the Parliament. Academist Reiner, act like an academic, so don't throw it away. I understand and the SDP club fully understands that the HDZ and HDZ club is in general nervous about the poll showing that their candidate is 14% behind the President of the Republic and we fully understand this anxiety that you are now transferring to the Assembly and obstructing the regular work of the Assembly with imaginary problems. Well, look, let them go, Mr. President, so everyone behaves according to their home education and so does members of the HDZ Club. [[Intruder Leko: Please do not interfere with the speaker.]] It can't be learned And you now need to attack the President of the Republic because he's leading the survey and you call him a composer here. [[Intruder Light: You continue please.]] Shameful, transparent, pathetic, pathetic. But the election for the President of the Republic will show you that this whole activity is completely in vain and missed. President-in-Office of the Parliament, I expect the HDZ Club to ask for a break at the beginning tomorrow to talk about the same topic or some other fictional subject, but I ask you to use all your powers and allow the Parliament to deal with the work that makes us citizens pay for, to do the agenda. Citizens certainly don't pay for our work because HDZ here would try to run a cheap presidential campaign, it's not Parliament's job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85611	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic on behalf of the HDSSB club in the Croatian Parliament. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85612	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here today we started to waste a little time aside from all the things that Croatia weighs down on us every day we have here either in the hallway, either in the benches a note or a debate about that preferential vote. And then we hear some lies, it's that HDZ has introduced preferential voting in Croatia. Oh, come on, or it's EU rules and voting for the European Parliament that we got from the European Parliament, it's not you who introduced it, it's the European Parliament's guideline. That's one thing. Secondly, whether the President of the Republic has the right to write to the President of the Croatian Parliament, although it could not have been otherwise in a letter, is not far from Pantovčak and this place here, and also to talk to the President of the Parliament who, since we have voted in favour of him, will convey what the President of the Republic writes in accordance with Article 94. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in paragraphs 2 and 4 which has been presented by my predecessor has the right and I do not see what is controversial here. The fact that someone thinks it's a pre-election campaign that may not have gone into it before, that's the thing of the one who wrote the letter. That's what you're interpreting yourself. Which is why you're angry, which is why there's so much fuss about it, and so many burning problems in the Republic, so much worse under our heels here, and Minister Vrdoljak is here today as rare when we are now discussing a letter from the President of the Republic. The fact that the newspaper published the contents of this letter, nothing unusual in the Republic of Croatia. God forbid that Andrija Jarak walks under your window or calls you good morning as we know from the DORH investigation when Jarak shows up, it's known that the jumps will jump into your house. And so this newspaper, we all know whose property they are or we don't even know whose they are, but as we assume, at least so. And if some people might know who they are. And it is not true that the President of the Republic did not address the Croatian Parliament until now, that this is the first time. Well, didn't we have a tendency to change the constitution he delivered to the Croatian Assembly six months ago? It is a matter of technique and of President-in-Office of the Parliament to present a letter to the president, in fact of the Presidency of the Parliament, that letter to the presidents to us. And the fact that the newspapers came, so charge the newspapers as they come up, give them attack, and attack the media as they come up with it. What's all the fuss about? Actually, it's about one... The pre-election where you are here in one way, and the other in another way trying to do something and in connection with the election campaign for the presidential election. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unnecessarily! You fight somewhere else, and we don't really need to discuss it at all in the Croatian Parliament, President of Parliament, Parliament Presidency clearly that I am confident and deliver and present this letter to us. And about the preferential vote and that HDZ is against the preferential, they said it a hundred times. Why are you fighting now? The citizens' initiative said yours, you said no, and when it was a speech about the diaspora you're taking out, then you agreed with the SDP four years ago that the diaspora would only have 3 representatives and a vote in consulates and consular representations of the Republic of Croatia. You from HDZ and you from SDP and HNS. I've been around for conversations when you're at it. Vesna Pusic proposed one representative from the diaspora, so we reached three deals with some kind. It's HDZ. I was present. We had three MPs then, and you Mr. Mlakar, or HDZ had 40 MPs. You have decided and decided, together with the SDP, that there are only three representatives of the diaspora and that they vote in the consular representations of the Republic of Croatia, and now you are taking out the diaspora. That's the way it is, that's the way it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85613	Thank you, Your Honor. Branko Vuksic on behalf of the club of independents.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85614	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So here we could paraphrasise this topic of ours, paraphrasing a novel of world classics, the president has someone to write. I see nothing disputed that the President of the Parliament has received a letter and I see nothing disputed about the president of the state writing to the President of the Parliament, and I don't even see why such a storm has risen over that letter. Is that a pre-election campaign? So please tell me who in the election campaign isn't using all the funds? But I don't think this is just a pre-election campaign. This is a good move by President Josipovic. I'll tell you why. Because there are 30 MPs' initiatives in the House. 30 MPs sent a proposal to the parliamentary procedure on how to regulate the election legislation that would be better than this and that would serve Croatian voters in the shortest possible time. These 30 MPs have sent in the procedure proposals for preferential voting, for incompatibility of functions so that it does not happen here that four years of pressure on the executive power through the Parliament, the mayor and the mayor. Then, the inability to run against those charged with serious crimes, to delete the bearer of the list. Each voter has the right to 3 preferential votes, 5% threshold and 1500 signatures of all parties and lists in order to disappear those papacys on the electoral lists of those parties that only appear for the elections not to list them, and those are fifty that do not exist, but are only in the elections. And what happened to that initiative? According to old bad practice, she was pushed into a drawer. President Josipovic seems to me, I haven't talked to him, I'm not so familiar with him that I know that, he felt that it might end up in the basket and that it could stretch out for the next election, not this election in 2015. President Josipovic has quite legitimately and legally exerted one pressure and we will hope that because this is also the strongest party in the ruling coalition said one day or yesterday that it will be discussed in the Parliament on the preferential vote and that the preferential vote will be used in the next elections for parliament in 2015. So it's a perfectly legitimate thing, and it's even become legitimate for the media to publish what the parliamentary deputies should know before they publish. It's nakaradical, but for that nakarada, it's our fault here in the Parliament, because we allowed the Parliament to become the last hole in the play. We allow every day for parliamentary deputies to be exposed to hickeys, we allow the executive government to act as if it had chosen us, not as if we were chosen by the Croatian people. I think a few more sentences of electoral legislation are very important. It is also a kind of controversy of the country's president with the Prime Minister who believes that electoral legislation means nothing, because he said he is fighting for jobs in Croatia, and it is seen that the struggle is increasingly unemployed, the electoral legislation has allowed those functions that did not deserve party obedience. The preferred vote is one of the opportunities for people who think with their heads who are not party listeners to the seats here in the Assembly. Election legislation is very important and therefore it is of great importance that we start discussing preferential voting as soon as possible in the Assembly, to pass the law on time, and to stop the practice of putting party presidents into the Parliament of our listeners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85615	Thank you too, dear colleague. On behalf of the List Club, independent lists respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85616	Honorable President, Minister, gentlemen of the House of Representatives. I will not deal with who gave this letter to the public, although I do believe that if it was done by the President of Parliament that it was not correct for this Parliament and the parliamentary representatives and vice versa. If that's what the president of the state did, then it doesn't even strengthen the integrity of this House. It is not good to have a letter with or for the president of the Parliament from the public. However, I personally believe that this letter sent by the President of the Republic to the President of the Parliament, then to Parliament as a whole, is welcome. However, what is offered in that letter is not enough. I do not like the constitutional amendments proposed by the President of the Republic more incomparably. And I think that's one good basis for the changes that I can then follow in the country of Croatia. And in these constitutional amendments, the President of the Republic speaks among other things about the need to redefine the referendum. I see it in a way that it should be returned to the positions we were in before the vote to join the EU. The president also talks about elections that would take place in a way that half the MPs would be elected directly as was the practice of '90, '92, '95. A year, and one half off the list. Clearly, then the preferential vote is condicio son qua non but it is not in any way enough. It would be a good idea to cancel the list bearer institute. And clearly, I absolutely agree that if it is not an investigation that has been launched, it is a proposal that these officials cannot participate in public life. Today I saw it written, among other things, in this letter, but it should be extended to officials in local self-government. Whether it's about the mayors, whether it's about the mayors, or whether it's about the president's advisors, etc. If an accused proposal is brought against someone, someone should simply step down. But what about the convicted mayors and the mayors? And there must be one company in the Republic of Croatia. Of course you see that no one mentions it, and that is what these constitutional changes need to be extended to. However, what would I consider to be an election revolution? Obligate with the fine of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that they must go to the elections. Such a system has, for example, a system. One Belgium, such a system has one Australia, seems to me Netherlands, Denmark, and so on. And indeed, it would be a revolution, not that 30% of the citizens decide the future of the state, the county, the municipalities don't know or any city. And then what happens to you? That elections get oligarchies, those who have public budgets, those who have employed through 10, 15 or 20 years of their staff, those who draw millions and millions of kunas from public budgets to finance the media. And finally, once again, for the 25th time, I ask the President of the Parliament when he will gain civil courage and ask the team down from Pula and Istria how much money they spend on the PR or the media. They just don't want to answer that, and we know why they don't want to answer that. However, if anyone were to behave like this elsewhere in the Republic of Croatia, we know how to pass. Croatia is certainly mature for change. Of what? Among other things, electoral legislation. At first, there was a word, the Bible says, and at the beginning of a parliamentary democracy it is always the Electoral Law. The electoral law is adamant among other crisis generators in the Republic of Croatia, but the cosmetic Electoral Law will not help Croatia as it will not help this economic strategy that the Republic of Croatia has adopted until today, if I am not mistaken, even 58. And after every economic or not, I don't know what kind of strategy this country and its citizens are getting worse and it's not better. And so it would be with one incomplete electoral model. The integrity of the Parliament absolutely needs to be protected, the weaker Parliament that strengthens executive power and vice versa, the stronger Parliament to the weaker executive power, and that I think in some way would
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85617	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85618	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u85619	Thank you very much. Let me answer everything. The first thing I'm saying is that in the Croatian Parliament there are views in front of the Croatian public, and I trust the Croatian public to understand what they represent. Secondly, also for the sake of the Croatian public, I will say that the call for Parliament's presidency has left and that the Parliament's presidency will be sitting at 12:00 on Tuesday. Thirdly, I would like to say the views of the President of the Republic are the views of the President of the Republic, and the Croatian Parliament determines its positions by voting. And nothing has been questioned that the Croatian Parliament, in accordance with its constitutional rights and responsibilities, decides on all issues but is questioned by the position of the President of the Republic and has been asked to protect the Croatian Parliament from the position of the President of the Republic. These positions and the need to protect the Croatian Parliament from the position of the President of the Republic will be discussed when it is on the agenda. And in accordance with the powers of the President of the Croatian Parliament, I convened a session not for parliamentary negotiation, and it will be done by others as they will want the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and that is where the President of the Parliament will not interfere, but he will meet the Presidency of the Assembly in an extended composition with the positions of the President of the Republic. And it's his duty and he'll do it. When I call it in, I have already said, what will be the answer of individual representatives, certain clubs I leave it to them for their political assessment, their political views and their responsibilities towards both the Parliament and the citizens. The letter will be given to members of the presidency, and they will distribute it to their deputies. If you do not need it, you will archive it according to the usual practice in the Croatian Parliament. I've said everything I think. So, another thing that the President of the Parliament really has the right to decide how he will behave with the files he receives in his name, and what the agenda will look like is determined by the Croatian Parliament in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and we will stick to it. All other value assessments and evaluations of the position may take the right to speak for this one here in a pay phone, we will be entitled to replicas both of us and you, we will decide what is in our jurisdiction. I don't see any drama, if anything doesn't match the Rules of Procedure, raise your hand or press the button, hopefully it will work, it will be written down and we will have everything in accordance with the democratic standards in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. Now, if you would allow, we would move to the established agenda by the points set out on the agenda. It is - Final proposal of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 667 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. In the case of legislation, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply, Articles 194 to 202. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the draft law was carried out by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received a report from these working bodies of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Honorable Justice Minister Orsat Milenic. Here you go, Mr. Milenich.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87865	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs and MPs, we have before us the final proposal for a law on areas and courts' seats. Later on, we'll have the same thing compared to the areas and headquarters of the state's attorney's office. So part of what I'm going to say now applies to this law, even if it's different. So, in this case, an extremely broad public debate was held in the drafting of this proposal. I personally visited all or almost all of Croatia, here a presentation in the Assembly started for the Justice Committee with all the data still somewhere in January, February, we talked, we consulted, we agreed, and now this is what is before you. The analyses we made when we made this were going into detail. For me, due to the limited format, we have presented it only to the members of the Justice Committee but they have had the opportunity to see where the data extends to each area, to every court, and to individuals about how many cases there are to what kind of spaces, what costs, what are expected and what are not expected. All of this is also on our website, so it's communicating with the public constantly. Perhaps one note, we received over 200 remarks of which a good portion was adopted and is in what is before you. Perhaps we can see what this is about and what it is about, because since 2002 it has been constantly talking about rationalising the reduction in numbers. I think that there are former colleagues who started it, I think it started in your term, you had colleagues, Skara Ozbolt, a test of misdemeanor and municipal courts on the Finnish project, etc. So it's something you keep working on. And so far it's been done a lot, I can't say we've started from large numbers, we've come to a smaller structure. However, this smaller structure when compared with the EU countries and the Council of Europe and the EU is absolutely too big. And absolutely what's true is that citizens pay a lot, and the result isn't good and that's it. Now I'm talking about the judiciary here, maybe we could ask ourselves about all sectors in total, but let's see what's going on in the judiciary. And I'm going to tell you just some of the information that is now contained in the latest CEPEJ report, so it's the Council of Europe Commission for the Justice Commission from which the European Commission is also pulling important data for its tables that were presented to the public a year ago. So, the number of courts, the average of Croatia at this point for first-degree courts, and here we're talking about today is 3.31, the average of the Council of Europe is 2.37, but when we take the countries we like to compare with and who have a really effective judiciary, then it's Austria 1.9, so almost twice as much as Croatia now, that's Germany 1.27, the score of 1/3 of the Croatian average, Hungary 1.52, Poland 0.81, Slovakia 1.16, etc. So that indicator already says that this is a problem that we need to address. But let's move on, what does this big number mean? The number of judges and here I will immediately fence the data of CEPEJ is always talking about methodology so not the judge has the same concept in all countries, the subject is not the same everywhere. Let's say we have criminal judges in many countries they don't belong to the category of judges, but I repeat this is a methodology used by the whole of Europe and called on by the European Commission. So that's what we are, and the data from the latest report is in 2012, they are very similar today, we are at 45.3 judges per 100,000 inhabitants, the average Council of Europe is 21, Germany is at 24.7, Austria 18.3, Hungary 27.9, the Czech Republic 29.1, Switzerland 15.8 etc. Put it in proportion. Let's move on, the number of court officials per 100,000 residents in the same report. Croatia 162 per 100,000 inhabitants. You know what the average of the Council of Europe is? 65. It's not a third but almost a third of ours. Slovenia they are somewhere near us, and the Czech Republic almost twice as much, Germany more than twice as much, Austria 1/3 etc., and these are countries which, when looking at those efficiencys are much better ranked than ours and that is the problem. So that's the data, you know there's been a lot of talk about what you are about our analysis, what it contains? Our analysis shows I'm saying what we've all done, but this is how others see us. These are the data where we compare with other countries. There has been a lot of talk about the budget and will certainly be spoken in the future, but after the separation of the budget Croatia is in the upper half and it is also one absurd that we pay very much all as citizens, and the service we receive is always not good enough. I repeat, in 2012, we singled out 0.36 GDP per capita for the judiciary, the average of the Council of Europe 0.21 means we're out what, a third more. We want to talk again about Germany, which singles out less, the Czech Republic, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Finland, etc. Again from the same data I say is not ours. It's official data. It's a relative separation. We want to talk about the absolute separation where we have been to some nearly 37 euros, and the average is 34, so we are above average even we with a country with economic difficulties, which we have above average. And that's the intersection that's right in front of us. At the same time, if we are talking about first-degree procedures, let's say, judicial and commercial, the average of the same Council of Europe is 246 days and Croatian 457. So that's what I'm telling you to bring into line what we pay for, because the judiciary is part of the service that citizens get. So, citizens are out of taxes and they have to get a favor for what they pay for, and the service is what I tell you almost twice as long as in the same comparative countries. So, I repeat, it's not our data. One of, so at this point we're, say, 10,000 objects over 10 years old, over 10 years old. The problem is some citizens have been waiting 15, 20 years, some here. From 5 to 10 years of 28000 items, from 3 to 5 50,000, over 3 years of 88. It's our reality. It's frustrating, it's extremely frustrating. We as a ministry have, in fact we don't have any possibility of influence and it's okay that we're completely separated from the judicial authority here. But it's frustrating when you get a citizen's inquiry why my case hasn't been solved for 12 years. The other day, I was signing, I'm thinking exactly the answer to one of the MPs' questions. And then it turns out that the court's report is fine. The shops were done, everything was fine, etc. You should write too. Because we don't, I say I have no tools anymore than to ask the court what's going on in the case. That's where the story ends. That's how we set up the system. And then you get the answer, everything's fine, and you need to tell the citizens that it's okay, that it's been 12 years. I mean, it's absurd, but that's what our reality is. At the same time, this doesn't say that people who work in the system aren't good or that they don't work as hard as they can. This says that the system is set up wrong, because we can also talk about other data because we've solved almost twice as many objects as a million and a half. So these are the people who have solved both the system and the judges and the officials, where we have actually brought individual branches of rights to a European average or above it. I'm talking about a criminal. So it's the people that are working and trying again. So let's let it go, I'm talking here about organisational problems, and that's why we're going with this bill because an organisational system that has twice as many employees as parallel systems on average costs more than they do, and it doesn't produce results, and it sometimes gives twice as bad results. He has a systemic problem, he has an organisational problem, and we address it with this law. It's not the end, and here now I'm telling you that this is going to get better tomorrow. It will only be better if we all work harder after this and if the next moves are drawn that can be indicated. But without this, we're going to stay where we're feudalized, where we're actually spinning in a small area, we're looking at ourselves. Well, we're all, I mean, we've all been put in a situation where we have a problem, how we're going to solve it, let's hire new people, and that's how we solved not here, so we've solved it all over the country for years. But now we have, I'm telling you here in this system what we've come to. There was no other solution, because you didn't have any mobility. So you really should have increased there all the time where you had a problem. The people who enter the system stay until the end of it and you are, we're all together, I'm talking about myself in part of the mandate address the problem so we've actually increased the number of people and we've come to this point. The shortages, the ones I was talking about, they come out of this. So I'm not going to repeat them now. But if you have a scale that a burden is sometimes one to four, one to five, and people work for the same pay, that's the real problem. That's the real problem. You've seen the numbers there. Well, we're getting paid to actually get paid in the system. It's normal, then, that there's no money for any other projects that matter, but that's how we set it up, because we've simply knocked these numbers up and we've come to the point that we have to take radical measures now. This is one of those that gives the perspective that you can systematically start managing. Without this, we'll stay where we are. Next report we'll have even bigger numbers. Compare our report by... We're growing in numbers, with these negative numbers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, deficiencies other than this unbalanced workload. It's also related to mobility. We're also one country that doesn't have any mobility. So where you can't move someone five miles away to work, and there you should, and here you may not need what's absurd. This is what we're dealing with, because we're doing areas. So, within the mobility area, there is. Unequal length of court proceedings. We, I think, have some averages, somewhere in court is 210 days, in another court of over 1,000. And now it depends on where you live, as a citizen you'll have 1.5 speed. How much are we paying? We only, so from 2011 to 2013, have paid almost 90 million kuna for the trial within a reasonable time. And you know what that is? It's every citizen who's been put in a position to seek protection because he hasn't received justice in the time he was due and then given that one fee, there's no other way out. And we often get the same procedure after that, because it's not really solved again within the time limit it's been left with. It's now fallen, now it's fallen drastically because before you there's been an amendment to the Law of Courts. We changed that. We're now on some kind of half, this year is going to be about half of what was paid last year. So that's going down now. But anyway, as we pay and swear to the citizens who didn't get the trial within a reasonable period, we as a system aren't in the right place, we haven't set ourselves right. This load's growing, it's not shrinking. So that burden gap also goes according to this as it doesn't reduce it now. Croatia is one of the characteristics that we have everywhere, which is that we sometimes have many bosses and few workers. That's what you can see here. We, when you take the release of the executive staff that's going to shrink here, you're actually pulling over 100 people out of the net who should be doing something else. So that's what we are. I repeat, it has nothing to do with the people who work there. We've all created a system together all these years, at one point we've been going up hard and then we've started putting it down in the last ten years, taking it down to the right measure. But I'm saying I'm going back to the first data, and we're still on the 3.31 first degree courts of 100,000 inhabitants, and the average is almost double. That's right. So, just if everyone does something, and especially successful, we have to do it that way. So what do we suggest here and what's the difference with first reading? We stay with the number of county courts, we think he's defined as he is, and I'll tell you later because of the appeal procedure that we're changing him that each of them will have space to work, do and provide services to the citizens. We have changed to one extent the criteria for the number of municipal courts. It's the result of a public debate because we've held back, we're following the county structure. We went, the first proposal was to go to these 15 counties so that we had 15 municipal ones, and then we said we were going to municipal courts in the number of counties increased for Zagreb that are divided, New Zagreb is being singled out, which has also been drawn long ago and has not been implemented so far, now will be spent. In Zagreb, we also have specific courts, specialized. So, criminal and labor. But that's it. So we also adopted what was through the public debate, what the citizens wanted, what you wanted here, means we're going to that distribution of municipal courts. We talked a lot about the effects, but let's just, and they're not coming right now. We need to be aware of that. This is just one of the tools, this is like one, like when we're building something, this is urbanism, and we still need architecture. In architecture, we've done some things independently of this. So, there were preconditions for this. Penalty, you've seen how arranged the number of objects has been reduced and how fast it's going, totally on average. The violation, by amending the law, is all the laws that you've passed, by amending the law we have a finally functioning system that actually has a third minor inflow to the courts. That's what we did. We've also made a move in the executive. You'll see by the numbers that they're falling. In the litigation process we have made some changes, what awaits us are further changes, we are awaiting further changes in procedural discipline. I must say, that practice is sometimes deviating from the letter of the law. Let's say we're here, you voted there's no multiple suspension of first-degree rulings. That hasn't come back to life in courts yet. Therefore, it continues to be abolished more than once although it is explicitly prescribed that it should not, that the second time should be changed. However, it is one of the things that will sit in time. But here, that's what we are, so we're the proposing you're the legislator, the judicial authority implements it. The appeal procedure, so the other thing we're touching here is, so the principle is simple, I was already talking about it. There is no reason that Croatia is not a single legal area. You today, we see it very well by delegations, if you are a citizen whose case ends up in another county court, you may be given a different solution in the same legal situation. So depending on whether or not you live or how the case is sent by delegation. It's something that's unacceptable. We are all citizens of one country, and we should have the same legal situation, at least strive for it. It's never ideal, there's autonomy, and courts have to have autonomy and judges in it, but in time it needs to be coordinated. So, in the perspective, we see no, so we do not see, but I think that Croatia with the number of inhabitants should function as a single legal whole. So the idea is that appeal cases go algorithmically. What does that mean? He does not decide man, he decides the algorithm according to the council's burden to go anywhere in Croatia. Immediately the question and the answer for the citizens, citizens do not go because they are objects that travel. We have installed here already so far in legislative changes the possibility that the second degree decides if we should, for example, carry out some evidence he can implement it through a first degree court. So, order an examination of that and that. A citizen will not travel after the case. Here we are now in the process of spreading it and through video connections, etc. So all those tools used by other modern systems and that prove to be good. So, citizens will not travel, objects will travel. In this we start at the beginning immediately with fines which are less, which is generally a more well-organised system, therefore criminal cases. When a decision is made in the first degree they enter the system and the system says which council in Croatia is free, the file is packed and sent there. And that's where it's decided. We'll get that into a lawsuit later. In law, you can see how we put our deadlines on it. The case is a more complex system, it's a lot more objects, and that's why we're going gradually. So we go first work, family, land-book, and later the whole lawsuit. In this case, when we talk about work, you know that this was a request introduced by the Labour Court in Zagreb, in other areas there were not enough simple objects to introduce Work Courts but we are going towards specialisation because it is extremely important for labour law. But here we specialize in county courts, because when they specialize they'll do more of these things, they'll communicate with each other, they'll actually function uniquely over time. And we'll actually raise legal protection there, speed it up, but raise legal certainty. The same is predicted for families and the same is predicted for land registers. Why? These are objects that are relatively smaller, these are objects that are specific, where actually knowledge and knowledge are and some relationships are different and that's why we're going that way. So this will be possible, so we meet the technical conditions, we're finally, the e-script will work in all the courts at last, you know since when it's worked out and how much money it's spent, there's data if we're interested, very long, very much, but it'll finally bring it back to life. That means an algorithmic assignment in all courts, so when you get the item you get, that means a whole set of tools that go with it, that's our prerequisite for this, without it we couldn't go any further, so we didn't go before with this. We've got over 3,000 computers, now we're negotiating with the World Bank, there's going to be another 2.5 thousand, so we need to rebuild them so that all of these things can go around in general. The buildings, among other things, thanks to this one vision that we are going towards, we are now able to rebuild the buildings that we will need in the perspective. Next year it will be Karlovac, Sisak, Osijek, I'm talking about the courts' buildings, we're doing something now in Split, Zagreb too. So it's also spatial within the possibilities we have, that's what we're going to do along with this. So these are the things that get parallel through this lead. I mentioned some of the laws that we've changed so far and that allow us to do what we're about to do now, parallel to this goes one set of laws from the Law on Courts, a little change of the CAP, etc. Just everything we need so we can spend this. It'll all be on time, it'll be in two readings, so we suggest, ours go in two readings, so you'll be able to discuss them. So we'd prepare them for this. But that's what we as executives and you as legislators can do. But here, if anywhere, then this set of laws shows the necessity to cooperate with all three branches of government because in the end this is exactly what it is, here is not the thing to pass the law and now let go of what will happen to it. Fate's power needs to be exercised, the cooperation and relationship we have now is great about this. We have with some others maybe recommendations etc. But we're really on the same track here. I am convinced, according to everything that happens, that all segments will do their part and that when citizens come into force, they will really have a better shift than they are, so a better quality situation is something that is now. But I'm saying, the condition for all of this is co-operation, the condition for all of this is that we just understand each other what we want to do, and where we want to go. I am extremely pleased to say that on the part of the judicial authority, in the vast majority of this is recognized as a matter of support, in which it participates, and that gives me reason to believe that we will succeed in doing so. If it doesn't work then this won't work out. We will bring a law which, when the citizen comes, when it is broken upon him, he will not get what we want. So here I am for all the questions, all the remarks. We talked a lot about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87866	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Before we move on to replicas and answers to the replica to normally say routines of today's session is up to the usual 19 hours. We planned to process and do the 4th point, that's the 1st one we're working on, the 2nd is the Final Proposal of the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Law, 3. The proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system concerning requests for a national referendum on the adoption of the Law on the implementation of accompanying and unfounded activities in the public sector, then we would skip to 4th, if there were time to work on the 5th point of the Proposal for a Law on Energy Efficiency with the final proposal for Law P.Z.708. And tomorrow we'd be doing four. Proposal for an Industrial Strategy of the Republic of Croatia 2014-2020 Please consider the plan. And now we're going to the replicas and the answers to the replicas. Eight is a replica. First, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87867	Dear Minister Milenic, you're touching the judicial swamp. You said yourself that citizens pay a lot and get a little. I've got too many judges, we've got too many courts, we've got too many court officers, we've got too many officers. By learning from the media again that the President of the Supreme Court, Mr. Hrvatin, has sent a final report on the judiciary, on the state of justice, and he is in great difficulty with you. They'd say the Serbs, "He missed all the football." Mr. Hrvatin is the only hook, as far as we could find out from the media, about how there is no money and how the judiciary is in poor shape. These indicators you put out, and we know them from before prove the exact opposite. Here in the law it is said, in reason and one thing that is very important, which is the quality of the trial. You were also talking about the quality of the trial. I'm a person who's also a victim of justice terror. Eleven years will learn how to conduct a slow, working dispute. I tested a few months ago, so I'm going to address international institutions, a dozen judges I don't know. I brought four pages of a contract that everyone said, just like the day, if it wasn't a fake, and for 10 years it was already possible to determine whether it was a fake or not. What's happening in the judiciary is criminal and what you're bringing today is a good thing. The number of courts needs to be reduced, and order should be introduced into the courts. Just by what you said, by cutting the courts, we'll do nothing if it's untouchable, sacred cows, no matter how they do.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87868	Thank you very much. Replicate response, Honored Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87869	Thank you very much. So, maybe something, you mentioned the report by the Supreme Court president, so what happens when it comes to it, I think you'll need to talk about it, not now in advance. However, the fact is that this is the system's irrationality, that all this data that I've cited is about a large amount of money, but you also have a whole series of courts and judges and court officials, let's not forget, which work in very bad conditions, and we just can't intervene because of this irrationality. We also have a pay system, let's talk about court officials who are really very often, working extremely hard for salaries that should be bigger. We can talk about court wages in some segments, but we're fighting a big number problem here because when you have a mass, then you can't intervene because you intervene right now in so many numbers that you simply don't have room for it. So, on the one hand, but that's our problem as a society, we spend a lot, people very often who work we keep in bad conditions, really, and... all together the result we need. So that's something we need to talk about and this is one step. What you said, this allows, you get mobility, I didn't even have time here, we'll talk about delivery. Why mail pay 65 million kuna, if we can have court delivery much bigger and much, then these items will also be shorter, and part of the officers that we said that the surplus will do something else. So that's what this is about. When we do this, we can start using resources better, and then maybe we'll have the money to raise the conditions that you mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87870	Thank you, Minister. Dear colleague Josip Salapic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87871	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear Minister, this reform started somewhere in 2008, and we are closely following it to this day, and I'm sure it's not easy, given the complexity of the system, but also the sensitivity of the areas you're touching. I remember, in 2010, there were strong resistances back then from individual units of local administration and self-government to certain courts called moving from one city to another, which the citizens then misunderstood. I think this is a good way to go and it's to support it, since it's not just about ending the shears of the number of courts, it's about asking for more efficiency. For me, the fundamental question is whether this reform that we are going to vote now and the state's attorney's office after, is equal availability to all citizens in the entire area of the Republic of Croatia of all these courts. That's a fundamental question. And this is all the rest of it you said, this is just one tool in a series of what we need to do. So, we didn't do anything, so I'm going to look back at the municipal and county court building in Osijek, if we don't have the information room, if we don't have enough room in the courtrooms, I hope you agree with me, and the courtroom in which the verdict is made on behalf of the Republic of Croatia is a particular person and a state like that. If a verdict is made on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, then that area where citizens seek their rights in accordance with the laws we have passed, they must feel that they are in an area belonging to the Republic of Croatia, not in a barn. ... certain courtrooms where judges work, it looks like a disaster. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you have the support in terms of rationalizing the number of courts and reducing costs, having effective judges, having a functional procedure, to reduce the number of cases, but we're going to make sure that if we bring something to one center, given the burden of the case, that all conditions are secured. And I am giving full support and that the education of judges is continued because it is not all in the role of the President of the Court, this should be done by the State Judicial Council, it is essential that citizens receive their legal protection as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87872	Replicate response, Honored Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87873	Thank you very much. So we're absolutely here because of the citizens, and I agree, and all of us together, anyway, we get paid by them. So the citizens' right to access the court with this won't be compromised in any way. One of the things we'll especially affirm is fateful days. Why? We think they're very rational and they need to be affirmed, they're and now they're used to a very small extent, we have 4 places, for municipal and I think, 3 places for offenders. What's fateful day? If you in one area, especially Croatia, which is such, is not compact territorially, are not always good connections, connections, etc., if you have, you do not have enough cases for a court, you do not have for a permanent service, but you need citizens to get rid of part of the case, citizens for financial reasons, but also for traffic decouplation should travel elsewhere, we will organize, the president of this area in collaboration with the ministry will organise the days of judgment. What does that mean? A judge will come to you as a citizen. The judge will come, say, on Mondays or three times a month, and he will do the cases from that area, take them with him, make decisions where the rest of the time should do something else in the home court, and that's one flexibility that we have to strive for. I'm sorry we left in time, so we should go back. So, let's concentrate just for specialization, for the exchange of experience with colleagues in one place, and where we need to go to the citizens and give them the service they need. As far as the material conditions are concerned, I absolutely agree, they are in very bad places. I said, while this structure pays mainly, it's the least we've touched, we had to cut somewhere, unfortunately we had to go more to these material ones because we don't have everything. He's getting better. Here's Osijek to be settled next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87874	Thank you, Minister. Honorable representative of the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87875	Dear Mr. Minister, I am in favour of rationalising the network of courts, but what I think is missing from this proposal, and I think it is in some way also a commitment to the government's rules of procedure, these are financial indicators. Namely, when you look at it since 2007, as you said so far, there has been a rationalization of the network of courts and 95 courts have been practically reduced. What, though, were the effects of this? When you look at this report from the President of the Supreme Court that we are about to discuss, he says it has no good effects, that things are not going well. Therefore, it would be good if you directly tell us what the effects of these current reorganisations are related to the resolution of the leftover cases, the one most troubled by the Croatian judiciary, and then to tell us what these costs are but precisely by figures. What are the costs of not only saving, but the costs of this very merger, strengthening people's fluctuations towards courts, this new system of management of county records and decision-making, that's what I'm interested in. Furthermore, whether such a reorganisation will come in some way to a standstill during that first period, you have foreseen a new choice of all the presidents of the courts, or in those seats where it will be. So, which is the stalemate, what's going to happen here. I'm afraid things aren't here enough in this presentation of yours, so please give me some concrete answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87876	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the respected Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87877	So let's go backwards. I couldn't even say everything in half an hour, so I'll go through the debate. As far as the President of the Court is concerned, it's a legal solution that we don't touch. So where they connect... resolve, goes the appointment of V.D. and DSV all over the year will choose who will do it. Our idea is this is not human reform in terms of moving or changing the president of the courts. So we'll go wherever it's possible, now we're working with these people as coordinators, so exactly the largest majority will stay as V.D.'s means in continuity and DSV will do it. So there will be absolutely no disturbance, that's for sure. Of course, that's where we depend on DSV, but I'm telling you what we can do here and what you like as a Parliament. You know DSV has its own level of responsibility, but in contact I am and I'm told everything will be on time and within deadlines. As far as costs are concerned, the costs are what I can tell you that everything that is provided for here by stage will be able to be derived from the existing budget. It means the amount of savings we'll be able to invest in other things. For example. Information period 2008-2012.i 2012-2016. so there is also part of the projection budget for you is 50 million kuna less will be spent. The results are still visible or visible today than they were. So that's how we're going to reroute it to something else. So the cost, you mentioned the appeal procedure, there won't be any expense because with the court delivery... 65 million kuna, which is the cost of delivery now cut in half and will remain more than enough for this increase that will be there, so that's how we do within that, we can't spend more.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87878	Thank you very much. Dear fellow MP Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87879	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Minister, I think that we all aim to get a more efficient, more quality judiciary and available to everyone because all the moves that go in this direction will, of course, be supported, but very often in your presentation, you have called for an average of the Council of Europe. If we're thinking about the same institutions, and we're probably thinking about it, then we should say that it's something that's not exactly something to compare with. Why? Because in the Council of Europe we have 47 countries, except for 28 EU countries there is Russia, there is Azerbaijan, there is Georgia, Moldova, Ukraine, Armenia, etc. So here are 19 countries that are not EU members. And in order to really compare to the European standards that we are really seeking and that we are in line with, then we should take countries that have either a population or are in some way divorced like Croatia, so maybe Sweden that has more inhabitants, but let's say it has one divorce, so maybe Norway, etc. However, they have their specifics as Croatia does. Therefore, we need to think, we can compare, I agree that some data can still be compared, but we need to know what our specificities are and what measures will lead to real rationalisation and the efficiency of the judiciary. We had cases not before the end of the negotiations we were able to reduce significantly the backlogs, I think there were 2.5 million per million and some reduction, so it was significant and the EU acknowledged it in our negotiations, but then it increased again. So the rationalizations that were obviously here and according to the Supreme Court president have not yielded any concrete results, and we now have the fact that the backlogs are increasing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87880	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the respected Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87881	Thank you very much. I am, in fact, trying to expose this exactly, and I agree with you that the Council of Europe is a much wider organisation than where we are, I think we are and here but from the EU. That is why I said under 1 that the European Commission is also using this data and I have set an example of the country of Austria, Germany, Slovenia that we love. So all that data exists so here they are in this blue big book so we can get them out. When I was talking about the number of courts then you were 3.31 is Croatia, but Austria is 1.9 or Hungary 1.51, we can go on, you know I'd like to fence here. These are the data that should always be taken with a dose of the reserve because just because there is no single legal area, there are always specificities. I said from the notion of a judge to the concept of an object to the notion of an officer, etc. It's working to bring it together, but that's how it is. So I gave this as an illustration. Of course, the big shift was made and that's also what I said. Out of a million-and-a-half, we've come to some 800 thousand backlogs, and that's terrible. I mean it's a tremendous success that actually very few countries have made in such a short time. However, according to our data in the last few years, somewhere since 2010, we have begun to stagnate. So we've had a big shift and then we're going somewhere around here. And that's one reason we want to go with this to give us the base to move on, to go down. Because I'm saying, there's only one thing about this data, but you're receiving citizens, you know what they're saying. It's taking a long time, we're not satisfied. So if something goes on for a long time and people aren't happy, and you see how much they pay, then we have to change something to change it. This is just a tool. There's a whole series of other things going on here. You've seen the misdemeanor we've committed, the criminal, the executive, the other laws go, they'll come before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87882	Thank you, Minister. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87883	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I noticed, too, Mr. Minister, this when you were talking about the urgency of the courts, the intention of improving the awareness and efficiency, of course, and reducing the costs. And in principle, each of us here is for that anyway. But I want to draw your attention to one moment where it won't be like that, and that's about young people's courts. By way of derogation from Article 37, the municipal court in Koprivnica is no longer competent for youth, but the Municipal Court in Varazdin. And now imagine, you minors from our municipalities, Kloštar Podravski, and those from the Jurdjevac side, Podravska Sesvete, 100 kilometers must travel to Varazdin. They have to travel over a hundred miles. So do you know what our families' material condition is today, how they live. It's another thing. The municipal court in Koprivnica is an extremely up-to-date court, an up-to-date, one of the most up-to-date and you're now giving the case, so it's settled at a less-scheduled court in Varazdin. So, the municipal court is up-to-date, it's equipped, it's got an expert associate, it's extremely good co-operation with the State's Attorney's office, it's got that link and everything. And in that sense, therefore, I responsibly claim in this place that this will cause another blow to the population of the Koprivnica-Kristeva County, one injustice that is indeed and in some way with minors who are risky one population will also be with this. This should be a priority, a quick trial, and these will be settled within a month, and you can give less to the court of law. There will be injustice, and in that sense I will submit an amendment. And I believe there's room to get rid of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87884	Replicate response, Honored Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87885	Introductoryly, I would agree with the assessment of the Koprivnica Court, he's really very up-to-date and very good. It's not an object here. So, when the Youth Courts Act comes, where we're going to edit it that's going to go very quickly. Put it on, we'll consider it the way we've been up until now. You know that when we talked about the court in Koprivnica, we also talked and saw what was the best solution. So in this direction it's not the same place, but when they're courts for youth, it means the law that goes along with this one that's going to solve it we're going to talk. The idea is next. If we are talking about a minor, it must be concentrated over time, the juvenile trial must be concentrated both for the protection of minors and for the sake of a better procedure. It needs to be done by people who have special sensitivity to it, not only judges but also lawyers who, you know, work differently throughout the system. So we have to cut points. How and where, we're going, we're going to have a public debate and we're going to see where we're going and how we're going to work it out. So every proposal in this sense is welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87886	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Dear Representative Josip Djakic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87887	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Minister, in your classic proposal of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, there are well accepted remarks and suggestions that you have observed and classified. But I would like to say that the possibility that you may, in the course of further action, be able to put your decision on the motion of the President of the Court or of other decisions. I hope that there will be no political applications in order to use the possibility set out in this Article 11 to abolish or establish certain permanent services of municipal courts. You've applied well to a misdemeanor court where you've left your permanent service for the county's widespreadness. If it's 100 kilometers from one place or seat to another, then it's really necessary for the permanent service to work and work. But the same thing should be applied in the Municipal Court, if that's what's been done on Violation. So I would like to appeal, that this should be considered once more, and that the Virovitica Municipal Court also has its permanent services in Pitomaca and Slatina as defined, but also in Orahovica. So Pitomaca and Orahovica, same as the land and book departments. This is what will certainly satisfy citizens' needs, will be rational especially because local self-government provides space and free of charge. That must be one good thing I want to say hello to. When you talk about the effects of reorganizing this thing that you see there is a greater mobility of the court staff there I must say yes, it is. In the journey of county judges to Belarus, they also travel 75km daily to their jobs. Yeah, they're very mobile and they spend too much money on travel expenses. There should be another moment, and it's that and county The permanent service forms in... [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87888	Thank you very much. Replicate response, Honored Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87889	Thank you very much. So we did, we talked about it a lot. So, first of all, as far as permanent services are concerned, you've always seen the President of the Court as he proposes. So, the minister and executive authority and the court here work together and actually assess what the conditions are, which are not. And worried that anything would work out as you say politically, everything we do is kind of political, but in this case, if you look at the criteria that we apply, they're really the same everywhere. And no one can come in here and say that anyone's because they're sitting here or there or they're not. We talked a lot about it, the criteria really, I'd say I wouldn't say, and so far people have set criteria and tried to be within them, but I haven't found one here yet that someone told me you've done this or that. So it won't be in the future either. As for travel, of course you have a real problem with travel and expenses. However, you do it if you want, and we have to go towards concentration, you have to deal with it. So, no matter how much money there is for expenses, it will travel. In time, when the new ones are named, they will be appointed in the seat. So then the need to travel will stop. So it won't be drastic now everyone's traveling, it'll depend on the needs, it'll depend on the needs of the citizens. This particular area you mentioned may be also candidates for days of trial because I think it is most important for citizens to have the right to legal protection. So, on the proposal of the President of the Court, we will consider this in cooperation with the local community that will provide space, we can go in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87890	Thank you, Minister. Next replica, the esteemed representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87891	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Minister, when something takes more than 100 years somewhere and lives through all the systems, then in any case, you can't clap when something like that goes away after all this time. And that's right, that's a fact. You're talking about math here, you're talking about numbers, and I think we should primarily talk about citizens, that we should talk about people. I'd like you to succeed in your intention in the way you explain it, not the way it says it, but the way you explain it. That's what I want you to do. But the practice in Croatia says something different. When the health homes joined together, the system did not work. When the agricultural paying agency's offices joined together, it didn't work. When the tax administrations got together, it didn't work, at the expense of the citizens. And that's what's most dangerous in this part and this moment and this law. Because even today, the presidents of courts, smaller municipal courts, work as judges, work in courtrooms. So it's no problem that they might even work a little more, that they have more cases if they have a smaller court. The abolition of municipal courts and status abolishes the status of local self-government. Because when one service is abolished, another service, third service, local self-government dies. It's like that in the village when the vet leaves, school leaves, village's over, people are moving. That's how this process happens, and that's why I'm afraid this whole thing will not result in as good effects as you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87892	Thank you very much. Replicate response, Honored Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87893	Thank you. First, I thank you for your good wishes, and I think we'll succeed if we all work in that direction together. So I really believe in what we're doing. It was, you know, I could have been more comfortable spending time and not open this question at all, but I think I should have opened it. The amount of energy we have invested, the whole of Croatia we have visited and talked about wherever we are, it shows you that we are really standing and we believe that this is a good shift. He's not enough, I can tell right now isn't enough. Just like it's not enough to make an argument that he's been somewhere 100 years, so he doesn't need to be touched. You know, we can say for 100 things it's been 100 years, the gas lights aren't anymore. I mean, you know? The world is changing. If we're talking about distances for citizens, before people walked, they're driving by car today. So one distance from 20 km 100 years ago was one thing, and today it's quite another. We in Croatia must be aware that we must be mobile, we must be fast in all activities. We need to follow trends in all activities. Expecting static, that we'll be sitting and working where we worked 100 years ago or some time ago, I don't think it'll do us any good in the future. We're talking about justice here, but that's the way it is in every segment. If we're not quick, we're not ready to be mobile, I think we'll be behind even more. I've given you an indication of how much we pay here. It means we're paying above the average for a favor that's below average. That's what you and I and all the people who sit here and all the other people pay for. It's not about people who are in a system that don't work, who are lazy, not at all. It's a poorly organized system. If they do, and this is one move to get rid of it. You can't solve the problem almost three times as many employees as the average if you keep them completely dispersed each and every one of them in their small place.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87894	Thank you very much. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87895	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, here's what you've been talking about, and in the introduction, a lot about what the balance is between what we're giving and what we're investing and what we're getting, I don't mean, of course, citizens, I don't mean politics. You've talked a lot about wages, here in replicas. And the fact is that the Supreme Court's report for the previous year also says that the budget was about a billion and 250 million kuna, and 84% of it goes to employees' salaries, and then of course judges, and the rest is only a small part on material expenditure. And it generates other problems. However, in this context, I would like to ask you for a comment, because I think we are allowed and that no one in the judicial authority will get the wrong idea, for yesterday's statement by Mr. Sesa, the president of a judicial organisation that has said on Croatian Radio that the governments have since 2008 been using such a term, reducing the salaries of judges specifically for, as he said, five times. So I think first of all, here's this reminder that no one will take as any kind of pressure on the power of fate, but the fact is that we have to open up here and the question of the trio of power and the fact that no one is an island, so no pillar of government is an island and it's not for itself. And the fact that the salaries of judges were of course not decided by the government, only by the Government, but by the decision of the Croatian Parliament and that it was never of course intended to damage anyone in that system, but rather by the fact, but that we must seek ways equally so that those who do good work, who have excellent results and in the judiciary are well rewarded, and that those who do not work or have bad results then in such a way as to reward.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87896	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the respected Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87897	Well, I wouldn't, so I won't comment on anyone's statements. It is normal for people who come from a particular segment to fight and intercede for their salaries and to have as many as possible, and that is quite legitimate, that is, and to criticise all those they think are in the way. So, government from 2008 to today. Naturally, I don't think we should pay particular attention to that. The fact is that according to my data, and here you may have for the previous period, these salaries followed general trends in Croatia. I didn't want to open up here, the question is also tied up in this context, but if you open it up and look at it then you'll see that it's relatively more than average again, with me agreeing that these averages cover a lot more countries, but when we compare to our close countries, these wages are decently large. With that, I'll say here when you're looking individually, of course not, someone decides about 12 years in prison for nine thousand kuna, of course that's not enough. But when you look at who we are for irrationality, because of this system as we have established it, what mass we have. You see there's actually no room at this point for growth. What we're doing here is introducing a ranking, so the possibility of progress, and that's the next step behind this so that you at one level can advance through your career as a judge, and that means that when you're a beginner you're somewhat lower, but when you get to the top you don't have to go to a higher court to have a significantly higher salary. So that's something that we're going to get, this is going to give us a basis for that. We also have some calculations and we're working out a plan for it. So that's the next step and then you'll be able to value success, etc. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87898	Thank you, Minister. We're starting a club debate. Dragutin Lesar on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87899	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, ministers whenever we discuss justice, the courts, of course, that public interest exists because citizens expect, expect and seek the highest quality of the work of the judiciary. In itself, the best interests of those who, under circumstances, had to settle things in courts, whether they were on one side of the law or on the other. The quality of the judiciary is probably also dependent on the number of judges, depending on the number of court practitioners, depending on the expertise of the judges, depends on the frequent change in the law that is passed in a country, so I would say even if, after 18 amendments and the addition of one and the same law, the Parliament publishes the consolidated texts of the law or not, so often judges also serve in working texts, consolidated texts, because simply no one can follow 18 amendments of one and the same law. But I'm sure it depends, I hope the minister has the conditions to listen to the debate of parliamentary deputies, because they care about getting some answers. It probably also depends on education, on continuing professional training of judges. Ministers, you weren't here in the Parliament when we discussed the State's Attorney's Office's work. And inside that report, it said that state lawyers buy professional literature with their own money because there is no money intended for them to go to professional seminars on their own burden because money is not provided and for that kind of vocational training. I am convinced, therefore, that I am not an expert in the judiciary and in the formation of courts but that the issue of permanent education and professional training of courts is not a whim or something that someone would want without it actually being difficult to follow. A moment ago, you mentioned the Courts of Youth and your desire to have special judges who have a sensitivity to this kind of trial. In order for someone to become such a judge, he, apart from training for a judge, must go further, acquire additional knowledge, skills and abilities to get what you said. Citizens, therefore, the issue of training, education depends on the money provided in the budget. The citizens are also interested in the effectiveness or speed of the trial, how long will they wait for their cases to be resolved, and in particular they are irritated, and I will tell myself personally, whenever I see that a court, a second-degree court, has abolished the verdict of the first degree and returns it to a retrial, I could never understand it. If they have found something that is not the first degree well done, go ahead and pass the verdict and stop playing more reduction or increase statistics. It's only because statistics make it obvious because they're putting their clutches on so they've solved the case and reached a verdict and returned it to a retrial. Maybe I'm wrong, maybe someone better knows, who used to be the minister of justice, so he's trained to evaluate it, but I don't see the meaning of a second-degree court that brings cases back to court, that makes the citizens happy, and that solves the problem. But I'm going to make a suggestion about quality. The other thing is expenses. You claim that this change will save money or that for the same money we will get more quality. Those who oppose this say that the issue of permanent service and judgment days will actually either increase or leave the costs at the same level, but that the same quality will not be obtained because the judges will have to travel because the days of judgment will require a cold drive and storage of that space in days when it is not the days of judgment. So there are dilemmas, claims, that one suppress the other and cause anxiety. So I'll give you the next proposal, Mr. Minister. This law will probably be passed by both courts and state's attorneys this week. Prepare the data from 30.09., how much the costs of state lawyers, municipal courts, misdemeanor, county, commercial and administrative courts are. At the 30th of September of this year, and I will send you a parliamentary question next month and ask for the same data from the 30th of September next year, and then we will have an overview of the exact data and evaluate, verify the quality of the changes we give. I think you'll agree that only those facts, comparison of costs on 30.09. this year, 30.09. next year we'll see the financial effects of the change we've made, but that's not all, and the number of verdicts and speeds of decision-making by the judicial authority compare and give you the right or the data itself will be useful to you for the new changes and suggestions you're going to propose. Because all of this, each other claim each other, I think, the President of the Supreme Court says there's not enough money, that the courts are bad. Let's go... and facts that will produce the judiciary and nothing else. Against these arguments, then it can only be politics and nothing else. Let's cross-reference the data, prepare the data for this year, come up with a parliamentary question for next year, I will be satisfied if these data prove that this proposal is a step towards better and will benefit citizens. I think my proposal is both acceptable and correct. And secondly, I saw why you didn't accept the motion to change the name of the courts. The municipal court in Zagreb cannot be the Municipal Court in Zagreb. Those names are municipal, county courts have been dragging since... time. Why do we call something Community Court if it's not a municipal court? Why do we call something the County Court if it's not a county court because it doesn't cover the county, not one whole county or two, but one and a half, roughly. You explained not accepting this proposal by saving money. Tablets, stamps, memos, business cards, stuff. But how long? As long as we're in Croatia, we'll have something called the Municipal Court, and it's long since stopped being. These are the names that were created during Yugoslavia when each municipality had its own municipal court. Today there are no more and these municipalities... today are no longer and I think the conditions are now created because these, terms that do not correspond essentially are not good. If not this year, but consider it. The municipal court is a basic court, and the County Court is a court of appeal. The trade court is a trade, the offense is a felony. And a point. Then we know from terms that we have basic courts, that we have appeals courts, and these territorial names have lost meaning the moment we changed the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia. And I don't believe that these costs, if they were specifically extended in the budget for next year, could be so great that someone would object that what is the basic court, we call the Court of Appeal, we call the Court of Appeal a court of appeal, not to slave the terms that are a matter of history, at least as far as territory has been concerned since 1993, if I'm not mistaken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87900	Thank you, too. We have a few replicas. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87901	My friend, you mentioned two important directories when we're even talking about this, quality and speed. We've always talked about speed so far, that the courts are slowly working. The time has come that now that all these measures, whether we want to admit it or not, have yielded fruit, that judges solve more objects, and that less still comes objects, and besides all the measures that we have now taken for many years, if not more than a decade, they bear fruit that we rely not only on speed but also on quality. Because at the speed, but also the quality, as judges, the power of judgment works, it directly affects economic flows in one country, and so on and so on, and that's why it's crucial. You said that, the truth is, that individual judicial officials... are suing that there is not enough money, but money,...as to the quality of the trial, can never be an excuse that judges do not judge with honor, to judge by their conscience and judge by law. You say the same way that, here it will always be expensive and what's right to cost, that the courts are constantly as many states of money separations are constantly in the lack of money as they need everything. The trial is always expensive for both the state and the parties. And that's why this measure takes care of that, and it's a good idea that you've made. But in any case, I'm surprised by some who think the court has to be right next to their own cafe just to find it, not to worry about how much it costs and what it means to the party at all if the court is across the street if it waits 10 years, if it's 100km but knows it'll be settled in a month. So I support exactly what lead you've been arguing on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87902	The answer to the replica of my colleague, Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87903	My colleagues, Ingrid, you've replicated or polymerized me with someone else, but there's one thing you said that money doesn't necessarily have to affect the quality of the trial, maybe. But I remind you that the state's attorney here two, three weeks ago said he was threatening to be able to pay for the skills and the art. As far as I'm concerned, it's like a layman I've never been to court except for two, three times as a witness and courts use witches and art. So by that logic, the question of spending money and ensuring enough money, I'm looking at not only what the court's cost is in the cost of material costs and wages but this part of the art of art as an example to me, and you'll probably agree with the important process in the quality of judgment. That's why I've apostrophyd this and the costs in terms of all the costs of the judiciary because they're not just about the material costs and the cost of the salaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87904	Thank you. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87905	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I am pleased that you too have highlighted the question of youth courts and indicated the need for professional, well-educated judges with special sensibilities, but it is also necessary to say a quick and effective trial in these cases, quickly which is very important because it is about life existences and everything else. In that sense, I must repeat the efficiency and urgency of the Municipal Court in Koprivnica, which has both a professional associate and a link and good cooperation, cooperation with the Social Care Centro, all of these are also with an adequate space of the Palace of Justice extremely good and efficient. And in this sense, it is unacceptable that the proposal now says that the court will no longer be in charge of the youth but should be the Municipal Court in Varazdin. It's not in the sense of what you said was good quality, fast and efficient, without talking about that part of the travel costs that you would have to say 100 kilometers to travel to, say, the place of trial, and not to talk about what the difference in space is. Here in this sense I would like to reiterate in this place that youth courts require special sensitivity, speed of trial and, of course, the resulting quality of trial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87906	Thank you. My colleague Lesar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87907	Now, counterpart Milinkovic also has those citizens whose speed of trial is not the target, nor do they want him because by delaying the procedure, they avoid much. The other day I saw such a maneuver when the defendant went to his lawyers to delay the proceedings seeking the court's exemption, calling for the right to explain in writing why, rather than verbally, it is in their interest that the dispute should last as long as possible, and then at the end of eight years it will be necessary to peel off a thousand kilos of potatoes as a work for the common good. But most citizens want a quick verdict. Therefore, always those measures that have been proposed to bring down a minimum fair trial, delaying proceedings, non-declaration of the court's call are all measures that must exist in society and be effective in order for the courts to be able to pass faster. But those cases, those judges or courts that extend one case, and especially in a working trial, there's a lot to be done for six and over years, maybe now I'm going to say something that's going to make me suffer a terrible criticism, but these judges should be given a professional lustration and thrown out of the judiciary. And so long as we don't do it until the judiciary has gone by force of the regulations and measures of those who don't deserve in that qualitative sense to bear the honorary name of the judge, we won't be able to do much. That's what I call a professional lustration of the judiciary. And when one judge 3, four times the same thing is found the only measure, the only quality is to remove him from the judiciary and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87908	Thank you. And the last replica of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87909	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I would ask my colleague Lesar a question, which is what you would call the appeal courts that you have proposed when a court in the first degree, such as in criminal cases, such as in strict proceedings against public notebooks, such as in litigation proceedings for the annulment of arbitration decisions in certain cases, for example in litigation proceedings such as the ban on strike and the like. Comrade Lesar, the county courts do not judge only in the second degree, they are not appeal courts. These are courts whose jurisdiction is much wider than that. In addition to what I stated in the first degree, they have a whole series of other competencies. If you are already proposing a name then suggest a name that will cover a whole series of affairs that county courts include. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87910	Thank you. My colleague Lesar's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87911	Dear counterpart Grbin, I am convinced that in the Ministry of Justice today and perhaps in a year or so, when it will mature the time for these terms to be old, hybrid non-existent changes will be sufficient quality ministers, assistants and advisors to find adequate names and this generosity we have now kept since '93. unnecessarily solved in an acceptable way for everyone. I believe in the expertise of the current minister and that he will be able to propose an adequate solution to the terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87912	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the DC Club, and I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The minister called in his word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87913	Thank you very much. Here's to what it is, so names. We've considered it. We even started to discuss names. Honestly, it's not just this change of record. We went to count, so we came up with 27 laws that we would have had to change if we had changed our names. So here we went primarily to the content. But I agree that the time has come to start talking about it, that when this comes to life that we're going to talk about whether it's a basic or a fundamental court, whether it's this other one, you said appeal. He can be taller. I mean, these are some things we're gonna talk about. But here we wanted to avoid if you want a single remark to tell us you're dealing with records and names, not content. So first we go to the content, let's change what's really going to happen. We believe that it is in another plan for citizens, but I agree that sooner or later we must consider the names and we must really adapt them to that content. But let's do the content here now, and we'll get the title. Education, you mentioned the cost-related. Well, I'm saying right now, of course, it's not enough that we should have more. Just like I said, we're as total as a system and as a state as irrational, because we spend more than we earn. So that's what we're all facing together in this vault and in everything else. That's unfortunately the way it is. However, if we are talking about concrete education, we have a judicial academy that happened not to spend all the budgets, then they were reduced. So you have to take that not only education specifically on the bodies, but you have one completely independent body that is not within the ministry, which actually implements education. So, education is done in a number of ways, you know, we're pulling some EU programmes now. I could tell you here that some people have opportunities to learn language both here and in other countries. So, you're working on it. That it should be more? I agree. However, we are really here to manage this power within the framework of an existing one. Next, too, the cost. It's about work, but let's take a look at it like this. You have the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb and the Municipal Civil Court in Zagreb. The municipal criminal court in Zagreb thinks that at this point there is no I don't know exactly, I can tell you exactly, but there must be more than 10 million kunas in debt to witches and defenders under official duty. I can tell you the exact information. The municipal civil court doesn't even have a kuna. The relationship with speed and efficiency doesn't exist, because this criminal who has a debt is much faster and more effective than the one that doesn't. So let's not look at everything through the prism of money, let's look at it wider. Because really, I mean money's not even in school, it's not in science. You understand? So we can't, here what we have we have to use in the best possible way. Our great burden is this mass pay. And when we go for a pay, I'll be the first to agree that she's not tall enough and that people are doing a responsible and hard job for too much pay. But when you look at the mass and how much it stands out for it, you just don't have room to increase because we're so many numbers, we've come so far in numbers that you're a little bit of an individual pay raise, you have to tremendously increase the mass. The solution is in what I have indicated, so the solution is in some ranks. It's not some kind of rank. It's a rank. I now call them ranks, to advance through careers, so that one can identify the one who really works more, to make better progress and then to have a higher salary. It's a solution, just like that, tight. Data, expenses can, 30.9. I'll give them to you. 30.9 next year, ask a question. I'll give them to you without question. We'll see where we are with that. As far as speed data and solved objects are concerned, too. They won't be completely comparable because the tools we're going to have next year at this time aren't the ones we have now, but we can find. Basically, the president of the Supreme will file a report, so you'll see and can be monitored through it. Very important, you've raised the question of multiple termination. One phenomenon to discuss, I agree. By law on litigation we have abolished that possibility and the Supreme Court can abolish the case once, the next time it has to change it. Unfortunately, according to what we get back, and the ministry can't even control it. We just hear what's going on it doesn't always respect it and it goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on, and that's one thing we have to do, but I'm your minister, you're going to have to ask him for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87914	Thank you, Minister. We have one replica of your exposure, Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87915	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you were talking about a problem that is related to courts and the judiciary, which is related to other parts of the institutions that receive salaries from the state budget, which is a matter of pay mass, it's a question of how to reduce that mass and you've advocated what I've learned from your exposure to measures, the results of the work in the judiciary, and that according to this progress and increase wages. So I wanted to inform you, Mr. Minister, that in the parliamentary procedure, there are passed legislative proposals that are currently offering ways that this principle can be applied not only to judicial officers, because, of course, judicial officials are regulated by a special law, but also to others, and I expect that both of you and other colleagues who talk a lot about this subject will support the quick inclusion of these laws in the debate that would be held at this plenary session to see what they are and what the criteria and ways that you and many colleagues here are talking about can really do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87916	Thank you. Here will respond to your replica, Minister Orsat Milenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87917	I certainly read it, I saw what was said. It cannot be fully applied to this system because it is specific. Fate power and judges you can not only measure the criteria of success but also... It is necessary to apply it as modified as much as possible here, but it needs to be particularly careful here that we do not in any way fall into independence and that we do not actually impose any standards on what is too difficult, and that is the autonomy and independence of every judge. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] So, I've seen the proposal, it's not fully applicable to this, but I agree that there should be appropriate mechanisms here, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87918	Thank you, too. We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the New Wave DC Club and Independent Representatives Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87919	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I, at the beginning of this presentation, must express some regret that we had not heard the report of the President of the Supreme Court before this debate. I think our decisions would then be much better on this extremely important subject. So when you read that report that we haven't discussed yet, and in preparation for this topic today I've read it, then you actually see that there is one disproportionate, one difference in understanding what this proposed law will bring. Since 2007, there has been a reorganisation of the network of courts and a reduction of the network of courts. So it's 2008 and 2009. 108 courts fell to 67, I'm talking about municipal courts, 2009 and 2010 came under attack by criminal courts, and from 110 were reduced to 63 misdemeanor courts, and in 2010 out of 21 county courts were made 15 county courts. So certain effects after these reorganisations are present today. Thus, the abolition of a number of municipal courts has left 51 permanent services since 2007. What does permanent service mean, why are they permanent? We're shutting them down, but why do they call themselves permanent? Maybe it'd be better if they were called district services. If we eliminate them, the question is, what are these costs again, what I was telling you at the beginning? Therefore, there is still room to define the very names of the law. Here's what you said yourself. You're gonna shut down all the time. Then if they're eliminated, they're not permanent. What are the effects of this so far reorganization of the network of courts? That's what I keep asking, and I ask on purpose because when you read the first 10 pages of the Supreme Court Report, then he says there are no positive effects. So there's something wrong with that. I don't know, the eighth or ninth side of the report says there are no real effects and calls for higher mobility costs for court staff, information costs. You said in your statement that old cases are somewhere around 88 grand, it's cancer-random justice, at least this civilian. What are those deadlines? What are the estimates of when these 88 thousand cases will be resolved? This is, for example, one particular vision that should be offered to this House in all these measures when is it going to be 0? When will 88,000 become zero? Is that in three years, in five years, in 10 years, when? And then in this way we'll be able to see these savings in the trials within a reasonable time, we'll be able to see what these are and what kind of reflections this reorganization of the network of courts is necessary, absolutely agree with that. But is she a priority at this point? Priority compared to, for example, increased engagement to solve these 88 thousand cases? In enhanced work on the recruitment and settlement of cases in commercial courts? Today, throughout Europe, your judiciary is in function of the economy. To us, the judiciary is now in commercial courts as a function of killing the economy. What are we gonna do with that? We didn't even touch it here. So this proposed reorganisation under this law goes in four directions. Territorial reshuffle, organisational reconstruction, reform of the appeal process and information. And now that we look at this territorial structure again, the question is, what are the criteria? You know, you mentioned the Finnish model, then we looked at the distance of the courts, the burden of the case, there were some criteria, good, bad courts. What are the criteria here that all of this practically went together in the centres, practically in the courts that are at the heart of the county, what are the measurable criteria? What are the good ones that are bad courts? We will when it's public, the public will ever know. This is how we put them all in the same bag in some way, so it reminds me of that saying in the early Middle Ages when the army leader was asked in the war how are we going to know who the real one was? Then he said he needs to kill everyone and God will choose who's right and who's guilty. Now, here's the question that's good here and what's bad judgment and why we went all together, and is that exactly the best criterion? What I think is one of the serious questions and dilemmas is the burden of the courts themselves. Zagreb is absolutely the most burdened, i.e. the municipal-civil court in Zagreb is the most burdened court in the country, with the largest number of inflows. There's a Split court behind that. Now, if in Zagreb we are breaking the court in two courts, in Zagreb practically north of Sava and the court south of Sava, then the question is why have we put everything in a Split court that is immediately behind the Zagreb court? And I'm not even talking about some spatial conditions, which, when you get to the municipal court in Split, it's like entering a exile settlement, it looks like that. Therefore, it is also necessary to work on the accommodation facilities. And what it's going to look like to fill the whole county into a municipal court that is now unscheduled, is really a mental noun right now. When it comes to the separation of the court, the Civil Court in Zagreb or the establishment of a new court in Zagreb south, for me and for many lawyers in the city, it is not simply the happiest solution to break up cadastrian municipalities in two courts, so the border is the Sava River. I don't think that's a good solution. This way it will happen, and I will give myself the effort to single out even the cartridges that will, where practically land-marked cartridges will be broken in two courts, north and south. Who can just put it together? It seems to me, too, that the entire practical area of the City of Zagreb should remain in one court. This is where you ask questions and spatial possibilities. Namely, the square of justice was a space for the accommodation of all courts in the provost degree. One part of this square of justice has been made, most of it is not, here is the minister please answer me what is happening with this project since it has received the support of all governments so far, why do these care and what are the problems that have arisen that all courts in the first degree in the City of Zagreb do not put themselves on the Market of Justice and thus create spatial opportunities for a more quality work? Under organizational reshuffle, here absolutely, it should be supported. However, in addition to the merger of courts and the introduction of the Director of Justice's office, I say again, there are no defined measures that intend to implement the organisational structure and what is specifically thought of since no other director of the judicial administration has been able to see it and its effects of the work. As for the redecoration of the appeal procedure, I have already expressed my doubts as to what it will look like in my first reading. It seems to me that a lot of things are still unfinished and the information itself is not simply followed to the extent that this measure could be applied immediately after the adoption of the law or in the next half of the year in concrete terms. Therefore, our club is for the reorganisation of the justice network, but we absolutely think that the money that would be invested in this cost should be invested on those current, bags of topics, which is how to bring down the number of cases, delays, reform of commercial courts, we are not at all principles, and the reduction of the number of court presidents, the increased mobility of court staff, the even burden of courts, the unification of judicial practice are all measures but the technical nature that this law adopts. They're the right measures, which are to bring down the remaining items I don't think with this bill we're going to get right away, maybe one day. But the question is, what are the deadlines? I'm going back to those deadlines. And that's why our club suggests that this law goes into third reading to be prepared for the end of quality, we have time, it's time for some parts of this law to be implemented deep in the coming year, so maybe we should think about it a little bit more. The great effort of the ministry is put into this process, we don't need it... we need to help, but I think there are even better solutions than they were offered by this legislative proposal. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87920	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. First came Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87921	You say, fellow Members, which is only partly true, we've been reducing, we started, although you said in 2008, which is true, but we have to remember that since 2000 we've increased the number of courts and state attorneys in order to solve the backlogs. We've seen a lot of money being spent, and there's no effect, they're not so effective. But the key question you're asking, why, therefore, a whole series of measures that have been taken since then, so here's the answer, when you're looking for an answer that depends not on the executive authority, but on the judicial authority. So, there's a legal possibility, a whole series of measures to speed up procedures, so... this to contribute, it's if no one else really went through our beautiful, with the general public, to talk to the judicial authority, and I think for the first time, so it didn't go linearly, not to the increase, not to the reduction just like that, but to see what the effects are for each single judicial body, and that's crucial. But what you ask the question, why and when you ask the question of equating court practice, in one part of Croatia, it is certain that the prosecutor will succeed. With the same appeal request in the other part of Croatia, it will be rejected, and that is something that our people, not only confuses them, but drives them mad. But what the minister also said, in a way, you, too, are potentiating, as it is possible that judges, a whole series of measures and this, reforming the appeal procedure that can't be done more than once, so that second time, it can't stop but it has to change, but it's happening. How come the judges don't respect the law? Let's see what it is, is it perhaps an impossible mission for them? Maybe it's something that judges can't change at all, so we're going to change it, but we can't possibly let judges, judges are independent, we need to protect their independence, but they're not fair to law and common sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87922	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87923	Well, here you are, colleague Ingrid Anticevic, if you look at this report by the President of the Supreme Court, and you'll look at it for sure if you haven't done it by now, she'll see that there's a disproportionateity to what the Minister says and what the President of the Supreme Court says. When you look at the statements of the President of the Association of Croatian Judges, it's the same thing. When you look at the letter of the Academy of Legal Sciences which appeals to, precisely these reform steps to be very carefully implemented, then we really need to ask ourselves whether this is the most common path and whether this is now a condition without which you can't go to those real reform steps, and these are exactly what I said, collapsing, faster solving of the case and reform of the trade trial. If we are, if our judiciary will be in the function of the economy, and as far as reforming the appeal procedure is concerned, you have today, and you know as well as our minister, that at the County Court in Zagreb, the judges of the civil department work at home because they have no place to stay. And logically, I was the first advocate that only once you can complain, the second time the County Court has to decide to speed things up, but you didn't provide them, or we didn't provide them with the spatial conditions where they were going to carry out the procedure, because if they're going to make a measurement decision in the second degree, then they're going to have to carry out the procedure. They don't have a place to spend it now because they work at home. So no party will come to their house. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87924	Thank you. Next replica, Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87925	Thank you very much. Fellow Members of the Skare-Ozbolt, you have also mentioned permanent services, so I agree with you that we cannot complete this debate before we resolve the question between the proposals that will lead to rationalisation and then, of course, to the better functioning of the system and the opinions of the President of the Supreme Court who clearly says, I will read that, in general, the work of the former court as a permanent service of the court... in the long term is not rational and says that it does not contribute, in sentences, not to reduce expenditure, so costs. We need to resolve that doubt before we bring it... on these amendments and amendments to the law because if these two goals are not achieved, and the President of the Supreme Court, that is, his opinion on it, is such that it is neither rational nor precise nor good path, then there is again and again a imbalance here. Therefore, the imbalance between what the highest court in Croatia means and what the Ministry of Justice, or the Government, is proposing. It is a question without an answer whose question we cannot decide in the right sense on these bill proposals. So that's where I think about this and the Law on State's Attorney's Offices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87926	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87927	Dear colleagues Kosor, I was just, on purpose... this question of the current reorganisation of the network of courts because the question arises as to what is the cost of these 51 permanent services that were formerly 51 municipal courts? Is it that the costs have been reduced, have they become more effective? These are concrete results, concrete indicators whether we should go further into the reorganisation of the network of courts, go back to an even greater reduction or something we need to change. This report by the President of the Supreme Court says that there is a need to change, not that even more drastic court-cutting should go. So if we're going to connect all the courts of the municipal court at this point the municipal court in Split and leave the permanent services by the islands, what do we get? Or I'm thinking now we'll have a permanent service in Korčula, and the municipal court will be in Dubrovnik, and now we've decided in some way together that this permanent service will one day be docked. So I'm asking you now how are you going to explain to that Corculan that he's going to have to travel four hours to the City Court in Dubrovnik and another four hours back to get some kind of legal, judicial favor that I'm not talking about lawyers and who's going to pay that expense? The parties. I don't think that's the best solution right now. As long as we haven't introduced complete system information, as long as we haven't introduced a complete e-script, not that the file travels, but that we simply have it on screens in all parts of the county what is said, these are questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87928	Thank you. Next replica Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87929	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representatives Ozbolt, you yourself said we should remind ourselves that in 2008, we started the process, and in 2010, it was a request for even more drastic reduction in the number of courts, as well as state lawyers. There was then a political resistance to go into it at all. So I'm afraid that any reform that is needed and we all agree that it has encountered certain obstacles or disadvantages precisely from those to which these reforms apply. So when you mentioned the report of the President of the Supreme Court, and we were also given representatives and clubs the memos of the presidents of certain courts, and you were the Minister of Justice, there were three ministers present and two former, and I personally was a member of the DSV can say with certainty that certain presidents of the courts were not as burdened by their courts or other courts. So I can say that some of them haven't done their job very well, so I can say freely that some of them didn't even know how to manage their courts, so it's the same fact that's true. So if we went directly into the system into trouble, we saw that it exists, and then this is just maybe the fifth step of the reform that we started, and let's remember that it was the condition of Chapter 23 when it was a huge resistance from judges and individual courts who didn't do their job enough for me. I'm against the maximum burden of large courts, I think the intensity of this process is to be functional and faster, and not vice versa to make it slower and to bury objects. If we are seriously going into reform, then the first report of the President of the Supreme Court that we have waited for for many years should also be observed in the sphere of the one whom he represents, and I believe that he has also been exposed to the pressures of various courts and presidents to keep everything the way it is because it is best that some do much, and some do absolutely nothing. Then we have a system of justice that doesn't guarantee the safety of our citizens. That's what I'm afraid of.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87930	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87931	My fellow Salapic's resistance to reforms was and will be. No one's talking about resistance here, at least not me, I hope you understand me well. I'm just talking about priorities and talking about the need to simply have concrete indicators. So far, despite all these resistances that existed in the courts, we have reduced half the judicial network. And what are the effects of that, is it now that this next phase of even greater reduction is just needed right now, or is it necessary to invest that money in really important things, which is the collapse of all the lags? And what I'm constantly warning you about and in some ways I'm rooting for reform of trade courts. I mean, I don't know if you're following, but in Europe, your judiciary is a function of the economy. You had at 6 months I don't know how many round tables and conferences in the European Commission exactly on the subject of the judiciary in the function of economic development. Where is this judiciary in our function of economic development? He's gone for now. And will this reorganization be? I absolutely want the minister to succeed in his intentions, but let's see if we can see for ourselves what indicators they've given us so far, convince us that this is now a step without which we're not going any further.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87932	Thank you. Next replica Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87933	Dear colleagues of Scare Ozbolt, we don't need to be crying because of the fact that someone's going to be traveling eight or ten hours to court. Today, citizens have been waiting for the verdict for 20 years, 8 hours versus 10, 20 years to multiply the time, so you'll see what's going on. At first, you were well aware that it was disproportionate that I had previously told the President of the Supreme Court of Croatia's report with what we heard from the Minister of Justice. With the fact that I disagree with you, it is good that the Minister of Justice is talking about this today, and that only Mr. Hrvatin will we welcome here with some of the facts that are sub-story here and some of the findings that will be very useful to us in the debate when Mr. Hrvatin gives a report. Reforms will not be implemented in the judiciary because the judiciary itself, judges do not want reforms. All that happens in Croatian courts is clear that judges do not want reforms. But our judiciary is in bad shape, it works badly. That's not up to the job she put herself in front of. The system is guilty, and the system allows for the Croatian Parliament. Such a function when a person is not doing his job, then it is necessary to make a public statement and find a solution to how these courts will function. You said, well, when will that pile of paper go down to the sky and when will people get justice in some sort of appropriate time? That's the answer to that question. So long as we don't know the answer to that question and we don't give a solution to that question, so long the courts will be enclaves that don't answer anyone. And then we need to ask ourselves what their purpose is to bring down, not the economy. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]] I don't agree with you. that in the economy should be a priority. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]] Citizens should be a priority.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87934	Thank you, colleague Vuksic. We have an answer, colleague Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87935	Comrade Vuksic, you've listed a lot and I'll start with tears. I would absolutely dive tears if I were in Korčula right now and I had to go to one debate as a lawyer in Dubrovnik and spend the whole day, and so far I could have had five discussions at the Community Court in Korcula or I don't know what else to do with Blato and Vela Luka and I don't know what. That's what I'm talking about. And I would absolutely dive tears both as a lawyer and as a citizen, when I don't have a ferry or I don't have a ride or I'm late for my bus and I'm late for a debate in Dubrovnik. I need four hours there and four hours back and where are we? Then where are we? All I did was get Korčula. I can tell you any island, I can list some other places now. And as far as I'm concerned, I didn't say at all. I said it was, I expressed regret that it would be better if we had listened to the report of the Supreme Court president, and then the minister. We take a reverse step, and we need to make these important decisions. And of course, I hope we don't vote there right now and trade under the table with some courts. I hope we don't do that. And that's why I'm not absolutely against it. However, it is necessary to reorganise the network of courts. But let's do it a little bit more, let's see it more. Absolutely give support and for information, absolutely provide support for all forms that speed up the solving of the case, solving the backlogs. Uniting court practice won't achieve that you have 15 county courts. You'll have 15 counties, you'll have 15 different court practices. It is also necessary to introduce the High Criminal Court, to introduce appeals courts, to have all European countries. Croatia doesn't have one. For what?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87936	Thank you. Next line, Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87937	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues Skare-Ozbolt, you have compared chronology, so these Laws on Areas and Court Headquarterss since 2007, until today. You pointed out that as the number of municipal courts has been reduced since then from 108 to 67 and now to 24, then the number of criminal courts from 111 to 63, and now to 22 and the Trade Courts. There are four of them now going to be five in Pazin this one with four permanent services. And you said that, in one sentence, you said that there were great costs for the mobility of judges as far as I understood from your presentation. But here's the minister here. One question was in previous discussions when it was a network of courts as to how many parties in the proceedings spend money on dislocated cases. For example, from Slavonski Brod, the case is dislocated to Đakovo or Zagreb, in the palace of justice and people from Slavonski Brod are travelling to their dispute, debate in Zagreb, crying for justice because the Municipal Court in Slavonski Brod is crowded with cases and cannot. You also mentioned 88,000 unsolved items, but you forgot to say What? [[Employment: Depreciation.]] It's behind. It was also if I was well-informed and a million remaining cases were pending. Now I wouldn't want to talk about the year, but there were certainly so many of them. So, are we going to transfer the costs, so for the mobility of judges who will go in, come from Požega to Brod and spend only on ourselves or we'll send hundreds of parties out, so on their way somewhere. Whose burden is that going to go to? And he says there's no effect? Well, it's effective, but now it's a question of who. So here's the thing. The state takes over the ministry, and costs, and relieves some parties. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]] That's good for the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87938	Thank you. Answer me, comrade Ozbolt, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87939	Well, esteemed colleague Grubisic, I'm just troublesome here. So the effects are important. So far, reforms of current reorganisations, so far reductions and these fluctuations and people, so both employees and parties. What's the cost? How much is that savings, and what's the cost? Saving for who, and spending for who? Let's just see those indicators. I'm not against it. I just want to see the numbers, and unfortunately we don't see them here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87940	Thank you. Next replica of Peja Grbin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87941	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well-respected colleagues, Budapest, Bratislava, Vienna, Belgrade, Berlin, Bucharest to B, and other letters to Graz, Milan, Skopje, Stockholm, Lyon, Prague, etc. are cities that do not share one feature with Zagreb, which is that these cities do not have one but more first degree basic courts in their territory. The Zagreb municipal court has been voiced as Europe's largest first-degree court for many years. That's part of the problem with his actions, not all of us getting along, not all of us. I have no illusion that these are all problems. But one significant part of that. And this attempt to divide that court into two is a good step. You found a grudge against that division. I also have one objection, and that is because we did not stay with that solution to divide the court into three because I think we would then get that court which by size, or by the number of residents it covers, would be in proportion to and with the court in Split that you mentioned with the courts in Osijek, Rijeka, etc. But this is a necessary step in order not only to rationalise the network but to rationalise the conduct of a judicial body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87942	Thank you. Answer, colleague Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87943	My dear colleague, Grbin, I have troubled and made two comparisons, Split and Zagreb. I absolutely agree with the fact that Zagreb needs to be relieved because it is the most burdensome, the Zagreb Civil Court is the most burdened court in the country. And that's what we agree on. And it needs to be divided into two parts. But you didn't listen well to me when I was saying, why does the fourth, whole New Zagreb fall out of the jurisdiction of the Municipal Civil Court? For what? And I've troubled the question of land books. You share, Sava shares land books in two parts which is completely wrong, bad, I almost say will cause chaos in the city. You will need a special guide that belongs to the court in the north, and what belongs to the court south of Sava, I speak in the streets. It'll take a special guide without talking about the mail. And that's all I had to do. And I also problemed that the second-largest court in the country and the second-largest one, the unspeakableness, and that's Splitian, we've got him even more crowded. Now, for what?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87944	Thank you. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87945	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues Skare-Ozbolt, you've asked a few very interesting questions that ask for answers, and I'm interested in, of course, with a particular emphasis on local issues that other colleagues have confirmed in their midst. You first asked the question of what the effects of the rationalization reform so far are, mergers, whatever they call it, the judiciary. And I can tell you that my Đurđevci Podravina, my farmers, they say that the effect of it is, let's say, the removal of the garter shop in Đurđevec if it goes when it builds something if it goes for a extract in Koprivnica 100 kn there, 100 kn there, and even if there is something to pay for parking it must be harmful. And then there's another question. What are the criteria, a very important question, of this territorial structure? We can't get to Koprivnica in any way, why is it that Varazdin is just preferable? Why? And Koprivnica has the Palace of Justice, has up-to-date courts, which is confirmed by Mr. Minister, and now here in any concrete and concrete regard to the courts for youth again, Varazdin. I can't give up the impression that there's no politics here. Because if we want availability, quality, up-to-date and everything else, I just have the right to think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87946	Thank you. Answer, colleague Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87947	Well, I personally don't think there's going to be any garters moving around and they're going to stay like the minister said in the county departments, right? And one day, and I firmly believe that this will happen with one truly complete information, you will be able to enter from Zagreb, and you can now take out a land-book excerpt in Zagreb for I do not know the property in Koprivnica or in any other part of Croatia. And that's a big advantage. But I'm talking about these times now. So until that happens how much money it will cost and what effects it will have in terms of. So, cost-benefit analysis, here's where we haven't been able to hear it yet. That's all I ask all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87948	Thank you. Minister Orsat Milenic called for the word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87949	Thank you very much. So I'll go on certain topics. First, Korčula, it's always being used by Korčula. ... No, please nice. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Someone looked at it today and got from you all the wrong information that they would travel hours to Dubrovnik to exercise the right to legal protection. Which simply isn't true! Let's be, count on being watched by citizens and they just listen to what's going on here. So that's not true. And I don't know why they stand out like that, scaring people that they're gonna be traveling for hours on ships, ferrys, and I don't know as soon as that doesn't happen. But let's talk about Korčula, specifically. And why would Korčula have her accounting, why wouldn't it be done in one place in Dubrovnik? Tell me why, what's wrong with that? Of course the court, the judge, will stay down to provide the citizens with a favor but why don't I know the finances stay there? Or some kind of follow-up service? Or anywhere else? So don't we have to go to this country to concentrate on logistics and other things in one place that we don't do for every little court, we have two, three judges somewhere, and they have to have all the functions as big. Well, that's the idea of this. You're talking about Split-Dalmatia, right! Why would Supetar, here we can talk about Brač, why would Supetar have all the logistics that can be done in Split? In view of the question, should we work within the court or elsewhere? Well, isn't that a good thing? And that's why you have to put them on one. But if they're as separated as they are now, if they're little feuds then they can't be done. Because everyone has their own boss, then he has to have all the logistics, he has to make public procurement and a court of three men or a court of thirty and a court of three hundred. So where's the logic of doing it all that way? Well, you've seen our increases, we're constantly increasing people's numbers in all structures and we don't have good effects. So so far, you've been doing it, so far we've been getting rid of what we need, let's get ten more people, fifty more people, so now we've got numbers, up to the retirement of those people, normally, I don't think we're trying to get people fired, but we've been working on it fire and we haven't solved it. Well, I mean, we can't go that way, let's go, you know what we're missing yet. Mobility is therefore important because you do not have to hire someone new, you can move it from one point to the other, of course, taking into account the collective contract, and the duty to pay travel, etc. But we're more flexible. We need flexibility in this country in everything. You keep asking the question, too, what are the effects? I'm hoping we won't actually go too far into the past because then we could talk a lot about the effects. We're going to talk about the effects of erasing several hundred thousand executives that have been solved because a solution has been passed, so now we have gray objects that are not anywhere, so the judges have to work on them and they can't be rewarded for it, so let's not ic. Everyone in their day did what they thought was best, but let's not keep opening up questions, because then we can always open everything up. So we're going to open the question of the Stand building in Split that when it was bought there was no money, no money, and can't stop the court in it. And now we have the building for nothing, and there's been a lot of money and days of another building. The square of justice, you asked a question for the square of justice, that a great project, I stand entirely behind it, I think that second-degree courts should go, why only first-degree if they stop and stop. We've worked it out, but honestly, the Justice Department has no budget for that money, not in the JPP, not in any other way. We've made a decision to finance it through dudi, meaning from renting other state spaces, etc. It's only logical, but the Justice Department can't handle it in their budget, and they won't be able to handle it for years. I mean, that's right, so the project is there, working on it, trying to close the financial structure. I'm here because of a business secret I can't talk about what money is, but believe me, the money is so much that we won't be able to pull them out of the budget for much longer. So that, I mean, that's some stuff. We're talking about a Benefit analysis. We'll go back in time and see, so you can't do a Benefit analysis of something from before if you don't have the information for it from before. I mean very simply, we have a calculation of how much it costs now and how much it's going to cost, but some things before it didn't, there was no methodology. So, I don't complain to anyone who used to work here, people did the best they could. We had, let's not forget to join the EU, and certain demands have been put in place, and everyone has worked as hard as they could, but we're here somewhere. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87950	Thank you, Minister. Time. There'll be an opportunity. We have three replicas. First came the Vesna Scare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87951	Mr. Minister, I'm going to start with Korčula, and you've started with Korčula. So, you abolished the court in Korčula, you turned it into a permanent service, I ask you the intention is that one day that court be abolished, or a permanent service to be abolished, which is why it's a permanent service, at least you said, and now I'm asking how when the court is abolished, a permanent service that is no longer a court? Then it'll come to this for me, and what someone might be looking at with Korčula, that four hours will travel four hours back. And lawyers don't say how much they lose on efficiency. The square of justice, so the square of justice is not built all the buildings at once, it's done one by one. If each minister had built one building by now, it would have already been three-quarters of the square of justice, but unfortunately that was not done and it should not be expected to start all at once. And as long as you have a Zagreb garter in the University Library, there will be no real judicial reform. As long as you have cases there that haven't been dealt with for years, for objective reasons, you won't be an effective judiciary. So that's where you have to concentrate. I just can't accept the fact that there's no one with a Benefit analysis for the current reorganisation of the justice network and that we're going to another, I just can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87952	Thank you. The minister will respond to the replica. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87953	So I'm going back to Korčula. Croatia is different and is not the same as Zaprešić who will theoretically also be a permanent service, it is integrated and connected to the ZET line and Korčula or I don't know Stari Grad on Hvar or any other place. Thus, according to this, some permanent services in the perspective may be abolished, depending on the relationships that will then exist, traffic, etc. But some will not, some will remain, some may pass to fateful days. But that's why we have to have a flexible organization. So, you understand? But I repeat, if we don't go towards rounding up the accompanying services, putting them in one place, that we have the possibility of mobility. On that same Korčula, if there are two judges missing, why don't someone from Dubrovnik work down there for a year? ... Is now the problem, now it can't be about it, now it can't be. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Why shouldn't someone from Supetar be in Split, or from Split in Supetar, who drives the ferry. And you can't do that now, so we have to do this, because now it can't because every single one is because you have a constitutional restraining order and that's what this is about. ... Not because it's one court, you understand that's one court. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You are talking about Zagreb, we can talk a lot about Zagreb, Zagreb I have a terrible problem, the simplest court is the most burdened, some things have been done, some things haven't been done, you're talking about grantovnica, I'll now give you the information that, I mean, since 2006, no subject has been scarved, which means that at this point you need 5 kilometers of shelves just to put them somewhere, and according to the Rules of Procedure should. But what's there is. The NSB building, at this point we don't have another one, we're part of the proper procedure, you know we've arranged one of the buildings ourselves, like you said, and there we moved them and it's going. It's going better than it went, so we'll work in that direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87954	Thank you. Next replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87955	Dear Minister Milenic, you've said one sentence, I suppose in the best of intentions, people have done the best they can. So if that is the case, if that is the potential of the Croatian judiciary that we have today, then we will not step into democracy another 1,000 years. For 20 years, there's been a desert debate, a judge holding a desert debate, and you even know what a desert debate is, 20 years. She hasn't opened an object in three years. Except it makes life worse for the tenants of the building around which the attic is run by a desert debate, actually things that are inside. And now we're saying they're doing what's best. In the 10th generation, her employees in the judiciary shouldn't be allowed to do anything. This is the problem of the judiciary within the judiciary, courts and judges who have turned into a clan that no one can and destroys democracy in Croatia. What democracy is when you can't get to... and it's a court, rely because you know you'll either judge by... or get the money. And that's true, it doesn't need... However, I'm here too much with you to agree that I support what you're doing. I support that services are abolished where they are unnecessary, that they are more rationally spent, and what you said at the beginning, in your opening statement, we have too many judges, too many courts, and we spend too much on other countries. Everything needs to be rationalized, so what are the sacred cow courts for? So it's not working well, and we're responsible, the Croatian Parliament is responsible for why the system doesn't work because if we as a legislative body sees that it doesn't work, then we need to do everything we can to make it work despite the fact that they've lost touch and that they don't give access to anyone and they say we're independent. They're independent in great sin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87956	Thank you. We don't have an answer. Next replica, Petar Baranovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87957	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, as a reformist, I will be extremely pleased to see this reform obtained by the results you have overlooked and I would be extremely happy as a Croatian citizen, Parliamentary representative to truly achieve the goal of better and more efficient work of the Croatian judiciary, reduction of costs per case. However, some dilemmas and questions are being opened. Don't you think that maybe a much better result would give insistence on introducing measuring the work of judges and on... for those who have the worst results? Isn't that what a real cure is for reducing the number of items in the archives and improving efficiency? I will not refer to Korčula, but it is a fact that in Croatia we have one category in the Constitution which is very clear, which is that all citizens have equal rights and should have equal conditions as the citizens of this country. Are you prepared on the basis of the measurement criteria if this project of yours, this reform does not get results, but rather brings a part of the citizens into a more unfavourable situation, bearing the basis of the measurement criteria... as a politician? There was an initiative to establish the judgment days of the Drnis criminal court. One day there were conditions that the citizens of Drnish would not travel to Knin. A sufficient number of objects, you refused. Do you believe that the citizens of Drniš are in the context of criminal courts in the same legal position as the citizens of Sibenik or Knin? So, I want you to succeed in this, but if in a few months' time it turns out that the results are diametrically contrary to what you've plotted and if you compromise the constitutional right of citizens to be equal in opportunities, possibilities, are you prepared to carry conjectures as a minister, that's my question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87958	Thank you. The minister will respond to your replica. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87959	Thank you. ... You're Drniš, absolutely, and that's why I said that one of the tasks of this here is what we're doing, and if you see for the first time, we're regulating the days of judgment by law now, you'll also see through the Law on Courts, in a way that they become functional and we see it as one of the essential tools for equating access to the citizens of the court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, we'll use them certainly more than we can use now, for Drnis I can't, now we can sit down and pass, it's basic, but in the days of judgment, the president of the court in this area has to initiate this procedure, he has to assess the number of cases, availability, all circumstances, and then we'll make a decision about it. So, not to run from it, but we want to affirm it and I think Croatia should develop in this direction. So what we can do, we go... but also come to the citizens, to them, not that they come to us, in this segment and in every other segment, but we don't have to be there all the time. If we don't have work in 7 days or 5 days a week, let's be 2 days a week or 3 days a month. Of course, I'm going to be able to bear conjecture for anything that's wrong, as I hope to take credit for what's good. So, I'm absolutely behind it. I said, this is something that we as executive power see, don't look apart, this is where a whole series of other laws will come, some are already adopted. Before he mentioned and... of course, there's a new bankruptcy, he'll be a small part of it, to move things in the trade. The PPP will be the second part, so that's the whole package. This is not a reform, this is a reorganisation. The reform is much wider and larger. That's what we're gonna do. You, as a Parliament, will vote or will not, and then the power of judgment must be exercised. And we all have to be responsible for every segment of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87960	Thank you. And the last replica Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87961	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Well, most of what's said on your part, I agree, it seems rather rational, logical, professional and promising in terms of rationalization. What I disagree with in general is not the subject of this replica. You touched me like a splinter about Standa. Since my colleagues don't know what this is about, I'll explain in a minute and by what I have left. So the state of Croatia was changing with Kerum the entrepreneur of some area in the city center for this Stock House Stand, and then the government was courting him as it is today in Split because Kerum is holding a party in power in Split today, and he is raising the cross against whom the party was against, etc., and he did not want to work the road for the hospital, and he was working the sister under his Hotel Marjan. So that's one situation that can be called terrible. And that's when the state and Kerum exchanged one of its valuable buildings and a lot of it that one of Stand's slave houses can't fit the court in, it can't be there. She's got to crash. I beg you and advise you here listen to me, that building should be torn down in a way that the state gives to the city of Split, and down is the SDP in power so you can settle this in five minutes, so that the city of Split changes the DPU to allow 18-story skyscrapers there because there is a skyscraper in the principle of private-public partnership. There will be 10 people who will make 5, 6 10 floors for sale, and the rest will make a court on the ground floor and five floors as long as you need and you can get a court in Split for zero kuna and do so and write it down and you will save both Croatia and the city of Split and the court. So change the DPU so let's draw skyscrapers for the court as long as it takes, and let the rest sell to privates. All fair, no bribes, no corruption, no fraud.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87962	Thank you. The minister will respond to the replica. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87963	Thank you very much. I said in principle we're where we are, working with what we have. Everyone in their day did what they did, surely in their best intentions and in their best interests. So that's what I believe, that's what I'm going from, that's what I'm holding on to, and if I hadn't been encouraged, I wouldn't have gone back in time. Certainly what you're saying is an interesting idea, and we're working on it in exactly one similar way because the fact is that we can't finance it from our budget, and the only way to find someone interested in what part of it will be able to do for us, part of it for us, and then figure out some way, whether we can succeed or not, but in some way, we're going to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87964	Thank you, too. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP club Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87965	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Final Proposal of the Law on the Area and the Court of Justice, and in the follow-up of this debate and the area and headquarters of the State's Attorney's Office. The SDP will support the laws in question, and it has already done so in its first reading and we hope that support these laws will also be provided by other clubs of MPs. And I will remind you in the debate, and in the first reading, these laws have received quite positive opinions and manifestations. I have to start from the beginning, and that's the process of passing this law. Although the minister spoke of it, I believe it should be pointed out that the adoption of this law preceded an extremely broad public debate. The adoption of this law includes all entities that could in any way be affected by this law. The minister personally introduced him in the entire region of the Republic of Croatia. The Parliamentary Committee on Justice has considered the reform adopted by this law three times, and the Minister and the Ministry have been carefully listening all this time to remarks coming from all over the country and when possible to do so without damage to the sustainability of the entire system they have embodied in the proposal. The result of such a procedure is that today we have a round and good bill that I am sure will lead to considerable rationalisation and improvement of the quality of the work of the courts. No matter what I've talked about, even in my first reading, I have to remind myself of a situation that was regular ten years ago, and to a lesser extent, there is today where there was a whole series, we can call them micro-judgments, which sometimes had only one judge. In those courts, the same judge would have tried civil cases in the morning, would have dealt with the conduct and land-marked matters around noon, in order to conclude his day with a criminal case. What was the quality of such a trial? It's a little girl. And why is that little girl? Because no person can be equally quality, equally professional in the field of civil, executive, land or criminal law, this is simply not possible. What was the reason for such a situation? The belief that in Croatia at one point the availability of the judiciary means that almost every village must have one court. The network of courts spread without clear criteria, sometimes because someone was good with the ministry, without thinking about whether we had secured material or personnel conditions for the work of a particular court. We had such courts that tried criminal cases, and they couldn't form a council because they didn't have four judges. Is that a good judiciary? It's not. Is that available to the judiciary? It's not. I must point out, the available judiciary isn't what's under your window or what's 10.15 or 20 minutes away from home. The available judiciary is only what is impartial, independent, which judges legally and which makes quality decisions, of course and which does so quickly. Then it really doesn't, it doesn't matter if the seat of the court is in Pula, Poreč or Rovinj, Krapina, Zlatar or Stubici, Bjelovar, Grubish Polje or Daruvara so I don't count any further. For then we have a court that fulfills its task, fulfilling what is commanded by the Constitution and by the laws. When we talk about the judiciary in Croatia, I don't think I have to mention that we have problems and that we have significant, essential, systemic issues at all. It is also true that they will not be rid of this reform alone. However, this reform is one of the steps that I do not doubt will guide us in the right direction. And this is not the only reform, or this is not the only thing that has been done in terms of improving the situation in the judiciary or starting with this government. I'll remind you, I'll start from the shifts made in the area of criminal trial. As early as 2009, after the new Criminal Procedure Act, the criminal trial began to take place to that extent that we can freely say today that this system is up-to-date, that it works well and that it usually leads to legal decisions. Furthermore, significant developments have been made in the field of administrative proceedings, by first introducing first-degree administrative courts, then by regulating the proceedings of those courts to be conducted by an individual judge, not by a three-member council, and now by equating the right to appeal and other amendments initiated by law enforcement and which have come, i.e. the initiative for these changes precisely from the order of judges who, through their practice, have seen what is wrong in the field of administrative trial. Furthermore, excellent results have been achieved in the area of criminal trial. Amendments to the Penal Code allow the payment of penalties on the spot with the forgiveness of part of the sentence. It is an institute that corresponds to the mitigation of penalties for recognition in criminal law which led to an increase in the number of fines charged without the conduct of proceedings, while at the same time allowing the Criminal Courts to engage in more complex cases. I'll introduce you, and I believe many of you know the results of that measure. Within a year, as many as 120% of the fines charged by the IPO were raised in traffic violations. The number of misdemeanor orders from the MUP has been reduced by 21%. For even a third of them, the number of objections to misdemeanors fell, so these objections went down below a hundred thousand. And finally and most importantly during the period of the first year of application of the amended Criminal Code, the number of new cases fell by a third, and there were 214000 of them, while a year earlier the Criminal Courts suffered 320 000 new cases. The cancer wound remains unfortunately a litigious, civil trial at which progress is to be honest, but in no case is enough. Now what, in the sense of this civil, litigious trial, is this law? The main feature of the proposed measures is rationalisation. Second, specialization, rationalization and rationalization of the number and network of courts. There's already been a lot of talk about when she started, that she's not new, and there's no need to do it over and over again. But what's interesting about that measure? We all support it until it reaches our city, our municipality or our county. Today we must go over such a kind of feudalism and we must stop thinking only within the limits of our unit of local self-government. We need to see what's good for all citizens in the Republic of Croatia. The system with micro vessels is not good for us, that's what practice has shown. He did not fulfill his assignment, and I do not have to talk about the pressure on judges of such courts, as a result of the quality of decisions of such courts, or how the higher courts referred to those decisions. So when I look out of my county, it's visible how often in those small courts he's abolished decisions more often than on the other. This law changes that. Courts integrate, unite. This makes it possible for judges to specialize in a particular area at the Municipal Courts. In Zagreb we have already started and brought good results, so, as already mentioned in the 2013 Supreme Court Report, I will quote it here. The President of the Supreme Court states in his report: "In this context, it is necessary to discuss the structure of the judicial authority and to provide for the specialisation of courts and judges for individual similar legal areas." It's to this extent, in this law adopted. The final bill also brings one newspaper to the first reading. So this proposal introduces a specialization for county courts. I would like to remind you, the County Courts should now, in the second degree, judge with territorial jurisdiction over the entire territory of Croatia, which is a good solution because this will give us a level playing field for second-degree courts in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. The law is the same everywhere and the same must be applied everywhere. However, this proposal determines the specialisation of certain County courts in certain types of cases, so that the County Courts in Bjelovar, Osijek, Rijeka, Split and Zagreb will be tried in work relations. In family items in Pula, Split and Zagreb, for land and book items Split, Varazdin and Velika Gorica. A commendable solution which, in addition to unifying the case law in these specific and sensitive legal areas, will lead to better quality and faster decisions, will remind me of similar practice for years of successful existence in trade courts with regard to decision-making in maritime disputes. However, I must ask the minister one question. Does this specialization of the County Court mean giving up a high court of land and book, and is that why we will change the Law on Land Books? Except that this law introduces rationalisation and specialisation of courts, we will also get a reduction in costs through the fact that we will have a smaller number of court presidents. Commendable, though not the key paper this law makes. More significant is that the rationalisation of the network will make better use of the material resources of courts, and in the areas of individual municipal and criminal courts there will be a possible redistribution of judges in line with the inflow of cases and the volume of cases. During my first reading, I talked about the need for special criminal and trade courts to exist, so I will not open it now, but I will suggest that we discuss this tomorrow, for example, at a thematic session of the Justice Committee to see if there is a need for some correction in this area too. In addition, this law introduced other amendments, namely this final proposal compared to the proposal we had in our first reading. So, the Municipal and Violation Court are being introduced in Velika Gorica, which is the right solution, because other than one of the 10 largest cities in the Republic of Croatia, it is also a court that will cover a good part of the county that counts more than 300 thousand inhabitants. Territorial divisions have been corrected in relation to certain courts, deadlines and the like have been corrected. In short, we in the SDP believe that in the case of this law it is a good proposal that will make significant progress in the quality of the work of the courts and therefore should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87966	Thank you, too. We're moving on to the replica set. Furio Radin came in first. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87967	Thank you very much. Mr. Grbin, we believe that this proposal only leads to the abolition of long-term courts, and that these are not in the process of improving but only raising hands from something that exists traditionally and long in Croatia. I'll talk about Istria. It's not the first time they've tried to cancel, and I'm going to underline, I know you're going to tell me that nothing is being lifted, but it's being abolished, that it's going to try to abolish the courts that are actually running the proceedings bilingually. This is about the courts in Bujam and the Rovinj court. I've fought it many times. Don't think there'll be such an atmosphere in Pula as there could be that atmosphere there. And if you're starting with the fact, because it's really a fact that you don't run objects in minority language anymore then I'll tell you why you don't run objects in minority language. Because the judge doesn't know the language. The judge will tell you you need an interpreter, synthetically speaking. It will also tell the Libyan in Istria if he accidentally finds himself, it will tell someone from Venezuela or that he can have a translator in Spanish or Brazil for Portuguese. It's not bilingualism. In smaller courts, it's different, though, even though it didn't come back to life. Instead of improving these courts, giving them the opportunity to have judges who are Italians, as far as Istria is concerned, because it's long gone except for one in Rovinj who's the President of the Court I don't know how many disputes it leads, instead of improving we're going to cut. We see it as a cutting and a natural thing that as a representative of the Italian minority and as a man from Istria I will not vote for that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87968	Answer me, comrade Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87969	Dear colleague Radin, I would not enter the nationality of the judges in Istria but I can tell you that the President of the Municipality Court in Rovinj is not the only member of the Italian national minority who judges in Istria. So you can check it out. However, this debate of yours reminded me of a term in the legal political history of Great Britain, which is so-called. Rotten Barrows or rotten counties that have traditionally survived even though no one has lived in those districts anymore. And they chose their MPs in the Westminister regardless of what was left there, perhaps 20 or 30 voters, and on the other hand, the neighbouring place that had 500, 600 or 1000 or more voters had no opportunity to choose their representative in parliament. Now, what do we have in Istria? We have a series of courts that have a small number of judges who have major problems. From the issue of order of space, from the issue of the inflow of objects. And now we have the difference between the burden of a judge in Pula and a judge in Rovinj or a judge in Bujam and we can't redistribute those judges among these courts, we can't, because they are designated for work in the Municipal Court in Pula, Rovinj, Labin or so on. It's worth all of Croatia. This will give us a court in the field of Istrian County which will continue to have permanent services in all these places and will continue in Bujam and Rovinj to judge the permanent service bilingually as long as there are in these courts of the case. If the case isn't there, we'll have to cancel them. But if the case is and the tide grows, the judges of Pula will easily go to work in Buje and vice versa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87970	Thank you. Next replica, Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87971	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of the coat of arms you said was involved in the adoption of this law by all the entities to which the law applies. I would say that this bill is given as a proposal for all to whom it applies without some great possibility for many to influence it. But getting to know each other is, that's for sure. You were talking about reform, Mr. Minister was talking about reorganisation, so I'm asking you here to explain a little bit whether this is a reform or a reorganisation. And what I'm also interested in is what about people's salaries, what about salaries? We're all talking about judges, and I'm gonna tell you what about the salaries of all those other employees in the judiciary? Will this unification, grouping, perhaps lead to people working in that system still getting a slightly higher salary than those they now have and who can even be called an income to get to work and not pay? What I also think is wrong with you to comment like that, you said to stop thinking only about our cities, about our environments. So how do I stop thinking about my city, about my middle? How can I stop thinking about the city where the court was established in 1875, by the then decision of the earthly government, a city in which after 139 years the government abolished the court? How can I stop talking about it? I can't stop thinking about it. And I don't understand why everything has to be in the same cities? Why don't we have some concept that I don't know the county court is in one city and that it's municipally in another city. So let him be grouped. And the flow of civil servants within the system must be done for all civil servants, not just for the court. And it's anyway commendable in this part. But it has to be general for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87972	Thank you. Answer me, comrade Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87973	My dear colleague, I'd be delighted if you'd been a little more informed about this subject before you started speaking. The Honorable Mr. Minister has heard an incredible number of objections, some I have sent to him, not only my own, but some of the judges I personally know who were not satisfied with the solutions proposed in the law. And the minister believed or not a good part of those remarks, or his working team, a good part of those remarks she accepted. All you know is what the problem is, which, for one solution, let's talk about the court in Zagreb, get different remarks, gets the observation that Zagreb needs to be divided into several courts, gets the observation that Zagreb does not need to be shared at all. And now, within all that, the ministry has decided to take one approach different from the one that was in the first reading. And normally that those who have advocated a different approach now are not satisfied, but listening does not necessarily mean accepting. Because you simply can't accept all the suggestions of others. In case you're just copying what others are telling you, then don't do your job, don't manage. Now, you said to ask you not to think about your unit of local self-government, not a respected colleague, I'm asking you not to just think about your unit of local self-government. You are the president of a party that claims to be a national party, think about the interests of the entire Republic of Croatia, not just the city in which you live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87974	Next replica Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87975	Dear colleague Grbin, with a great deal of your debate I fully agree, especially with that part, and now you've finished that replica when you said, I'm not quoting, but I'm briefly saying what you said, everyone would reform but don't reform me, don't touch me in my backyard. Just before this replica you had with your colleague Hrga confirms that I should continue to fight for incompatibility of functions in the original legislation. Here we should look, agree fully with you on the whole, on the functioning of the system, on all courts in the Republic of Croatia, from the State Judicial Council, means in the functioning of the judicial system. That system doesn't work. And to the citizens of Poreč, and to the citizens of Valpovo, and to the Police Centre, and I don't know in Korčula, it'll be better if the justice system starts to work. If we will continue to defend only two, three judges then, and that was just before my colleague Furio Radin spoke, it is also difficult to understand the judges when they speak Croatian to me who speaks Croatian. How do you understand judges who have been holding cases in drawers for twenty, thirty years, how do you understand them? Well, speaking in Eskimo would be the same as speaking in Croatian. That's our problem. We have too many judges, we need to cut, we need to cut the courts, we need to put the services together, and we need to take it slowly down to the European average. But no, don't touch Istria, don't touch Međimurje, don't touch this, don't touch it, don't touch anything, just don't touch us. I'll vote if you don't touch me, well, if that's the Croatian National Assembly, then we don't need us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87976	Thank you very much. Thank you. There's no answer. Next replica, Vesna Scare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87977	Dear colleague Grbin, you said that you had achieved envious results regarding the resolution of a part of the burden of misdemeanor courts, and I absolutely agree with that. That's where you achieved the envious results, and I absolutely as an opposition representative have no problem admitting it, so all the congratulations. However, you have practically been released through the resolution of one part of the misdemeanor courts you have released personnel capacity to be used in some other parts. And now what you've lied to, the thesis has been imposed on me, perhaps it would be down to think about the merger of criminal and municipal courts so simply this excess capacity, free capacity in breaking courts tend to work in terms of solving major backlogs of cases, I don't know about executions or elsewhere, but to go to radical cuttings of barrels without Cosbenefite analysis. Now, I'm looking at my colleague Fury Radin, so we were talking about Rovinj, for example. Let's put together a misdemeanor court in Rovinj and the municipal court may achieve better efficiency of the court itself, although I personally think Rovinj is a very, very up-to-date court, especially I mean the grantovnica but also in other parts. Such an example can be, in this way we would practically go into serious back-up because you can't increase the number of judges, you can't increase them, you can only reduce them, but this kind of merger basically brings you to a large capacity that can deal with this key problem and these are the solving of the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87978	Thank you. A colleague's response to the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87979	Dear fellow Members, here I have already proposed, in my first reading of this law, to consider the idea of mergers and criminal and commercial courts to such rationalised or surrounded municipal courts because I think that, especially after this reduction, some of these judges might work on civil cases, perhaps even criminal cases. But it's not something we can do now, it's something that just requires analysis. This is only the first year of application of this new Criminal Code and I hope that the positive effects will even multiply through further application. So what you were saying is something that should be considered, here and today I suggested that we should do a joint, or one session of the Justice Committee where such an idea along with our ministry colleagues could be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87980	Thank you. Josip Boric replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87981	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Grbin, I also cannot agree with that sentence of yours that we cannot stop thinking only about our environments. I can't stop thinking about my island, about my Rab because I feel every day what's going on. Maybe it's easier for you. And first of all, I can't trust you or the minister. And why is that? Because you failed your credibility exam on that famous Lex Perkovic. You stood here and told us nicely that nothing would happen, and we almost ended up in sanctions. And now you're telling us that nothing's going to happen either, and many say this is the first step towards abolishing municipal courts. Why should I believe you? Here, convince me. The judges themselves say that the daily pressure of the executive authority on them has become insufferable. And what happens in rural areas? I don't know if you're following. They're cutting our rail lines, they're restricting us, on our islands, so we can only land once a day, can you understand that, at a preferential price. Imagine yourself coming out of Pula once a day for free, and the next time someone pays you for it at the full price. That's what you're doing to us. They're cutting off our gas stations, cutting off our mail, cutting off our bank offices. Now we hear you're going to turn the court into some kind of service, and we should trust you not to lift it. Based on what? Once the law was abolished, it never came back for any authority. And that's the question someone needs to answer. It is not clear to me that the president of the state is silent that 60% of the population in the rural area has been disproved, that his laws on..., mountainous mountain areas have been abolished by 01.01, and that we are talking here about some kind of... vote that will save the state. There are many more citizens living in rural areas. You'll see how you'll go to the election for what you're doing to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87982	Thanks, buddy. Thank you. A fellow coat of arms answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87983	I'll try to stick to that replica of yours that applied to the judiciary. A colleague, a court in Rab has a burden of over 1,000 cases per judge. And you know why? There's only one judge. This change of law will allow for a court in Rab to act as a permanent service of the Municipal Court in Rijeka,... another judge, and we will not have to increase the total number of judges, as we would now have to do if we wanted to. So these are simple numbers. You don't have to trust me, check the data on the number of cases. Now, you've mentioned the EU, and I'm glad you mentioned it. Croatia is an interesting country for which on your side the information comes that it does not fulfil its obligations within the EU, that it does not implement European legislation, I can tell you that it is not true, you can or you do not have to believe me, fortunately that I would not have to say it, there is a European Commission that issues the report. She has just issued a report on the transposition of the Directives into national legislation and you know what Croatia is according to that report? Do you know what Croatia is in the EU? First. The most up-to-date. But of course, you won't talk about it, and you won't listen to me now, but let's do it on your soul. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87984	Thank you. And the last replica, Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87985	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Grbin, you mentioned, among other things, a reduction in the number of court presidents, so the Municipals from 64, forgive 67 to 24, Violents from 61 to 22, it certainly could lead to a reduction in costs, but it certainly could lead, if everything goes according to plan, and an additional gain in terms of solving, a faster settlement of cases, because obviously a larger number of judges will be involved in the processes and that's something that's good. But you also mentioned something that we have talked about here many times, about reforms, so this is the continuation of a reform that was initiated long ago and you said a well-known sentence, everyone would reform, but no one would reform or anyone would reform, but not in their own backyard. That's right, that's how it was in the past years and in 2009, 2010, 2011, here it is today and when we talk about rationalization in the health system and everything else, so here's to the judicial system. However, it is always the responsibility of those in power, so governments above all and the ruling majority to make imaginary reforms if they have all indications that they will bring the country a step further in a positive way, to then implement these reforms.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87986	Thank you. Answer me, comrade Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87987	First of all, you're right. When we talk about the measure of abolishing certain functions such as the functions of the President of the Courts, then the question of reducing costs through wages or other receipts is really minor compared to what we will get through the discharge of these persons to perform their judicial duty, but also much more important that we will now be able to integrate both accounting and a whole series of other services which have now been dislocated by all these small courts that have had to have each of the individual services in full, which is definitely neither rational nor functional. But this second part is something I would especially like to look back on. We didn't start reform. With this government, with this minister, with me, the world has neither begun nor ended. The judicial reform process lasts for many years, with greater and less success. I also spoke about the Law on Criminal Procedure, I talk about 2009, I also talked about the Law on Administrative Disputes, we're talking about 2010. We're just correcting something that the Constitutional Court has shown us, something that we have noticed ourselves, something that is, for example, this last amendment that is in the procedure that the judges of the administrative courts have observed. Today we go with this law, I said it is not enough in itself, it is not in itself reform, it is part of a major comprehensive reform process that should lead us to hopefully close to the goal of having an up-to-date, quality and justice that will actually be in the service of both citizens and companies and the entire economic sector, or the entire Republic of Croatia. We're not going to do it ourselves, this government isn't going to do it, probably not the next one, not the one behind it, but that's what we have to strive for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87988	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS club Vesna Sabolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87989	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with a co-worker, esteemed vice president of the Croatian Parliament. The club of HNS representatives of the Liberal Democrats fully agrees with the introduction of the proposal for a proposal as well as the conclusions of the Committee on Justice and will, of course, support this Final Proposal of the Law on the Areas and Seats of the Courts in the Republic of Croatia. As a member of the Committee on Justice, I share the position of my colleagues from the Committee that the applicant, or the Ministry of Justice, has submitted to the parliamentary representatives a balanced bill representing the rationalisation and reorganisation of the justice system. Regardless of the initial resistances both within the system and in some local environments, as well as in this assembly, we believe that this law will not cause major recommendations. The reason for this is the obvious good communication skills of teams at the Ministry of Justice, and above all the initiative of the ministry. We have already heard that the Justice Committee was familiar with the objectives in the very pre-plan of the text, that the minister and his associates held meetings with the leaders of the judicial bodies, with representatives of the counties and cities where they represented the need and advantages of the rationalisation procedures. They had empathy or the ability to enjoy the situation of local stakeholders even though I do not like the expression of stakeholders, but it is a modern expression for all the participants to whom this law was directly or indirectly concerned, and they also took care of the geographical specificities of some counties such as Ličko-senjska or some of whom were here today, where the distance from the court or permanent service crosses hundreds of kilometers. However, we know that the problem is not distance but lack of public transport in these areas. Of course, this has nothing to do with the availability of courts because it does not refer to physical distance or speed. I can say that there are great places not villages, but large places where the daily press does not come and it is a big problem, but the availability of courts was about it and I think this law will improve. Furthermore, I should like to congratulate the Minister on the flexibility which adopted, between the two readings, reasonable proposals from the public debate and the proposals from the opposition deputies, and ultimately the assurance that the Minister as the representative of the proposal presented today this final bill from which we read that there will be no deviation from the objective set, which is to improve the judicial services of citizens by creating a modern, efficient and all citizens available network of courts. The current state of affairs we've heard is not satisfied with the citizens, they're not satisfied with the judges, they're not the court officials, they're not the tenants. We can see she's not satisfied with the government or the rest of the ministry. No one or little who is satisfied, although the reform has been under way since 2005. The government of the Republic of Croatia then adopted a Justice Reform Strategy with a corresponding action plan. The priorities included a measure of reorganisation and rationalisation of the network of courts and state lawyers. The rationalisation of the network of courts itself began only in 2008 and was aimed only at reducing the number of courts and not at reorganising the judicial authority and therefore the expected effects were left behind. In the nine years since the start of the reform, there has been much more to be expected than cosmetic procedures. The analysis of the data in the work of municipal misdemeanor courts over the past two years shows that despite these rationalisation measures, the existing system of the judicial network remains unsuitable. Therefore, the aim of this law is to create a territorial organisational reshuffle in the next year and a half with precise deadlines, with the help of the modern information system, and to redecorate the appeal procedure which will then cause a series of qualitative changes such as even burden on judges, a faster solution. Faster and cheaper procedure for citizens. It will no longer happen that the judge with a thousand resolved cases has the same salary as the one with 300 or that simple objects are dealt with inexpressively and that the complicated ones have been dragged for years because they don't have the same points, so the work on them judges is invaluable. In this way, work trails will be evenly deployed and I hope they will be dealt with by emergency procedure. The issue of unequal court practice that even in the same courts judges judge differently, and that today was a lot of talk, and that then justice depends on actually a happy star this law will significantly improve. The new system allows courts to specialize, not in terms of professional training or training, at least I haven't read it anywhere, but after solving cases by grouping, solving cases from certain legal matter, or from similar or the same area. Now that I mention this professional training and training, Mr. Minister, I know it's not the subject of this law, but it could be a condition for achieving the objective of this law. So professional training is an important lever for creating a modern and efficient judiciary. Regardless of the judicial academy you were talking about, this problem should be given special attention, starting with the insurance of professional literature, to the availability of education to all judges and court officials. The envisaged reform will be successful and productive only to the extent that the atmosphere within the system is supported. It is therefore necessary to find, in addition to this technical and organisational part, a motivational factor to raise the synergy effect of the most valuable experts among judges or court officials and tenants. It seems even more important to me than solving spatial problems. There are EU structural funds from which funds can be provided for these purposes. And as for the mobility of the court staff, the law provides for the possibility for each president of the court to deploy judges, officials, appointments to the court's constituencies as you have said, including joint services. It is necessary to comply with the provisions of the Law on civil servants and tenants in order to avoid unwanted transfers. This problem should also be addressed by encouraging measures such as measures taken by the Ministry of Administration to encourage mobility of public administration officials. The reasoning of the proposal states that law enforcement and savings will be made to reduce the number of employees as a result of natural drains, as explained in the explanation. That really sounds kind of ugly. So, due to the departure of judges and officials and pensioners. I'd have to ask you two questions here, Mr. Minister. First, how come only judges didn't have the possibility of severance for early retirement and is that true? And secondly, I believe that you will agree with me as many here have agreed today, that this is an important reform of direct interest for all citizens, for all public and economic operators and finally for the realisation of the Croatian Development Strategy adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The speed of implementation of projects and investments depends largely on the speed of work of courts, not to mention the issue of jurisdiction of Commercial Courts and Land and Book Departments, etc. Is it possible to provide more favourable conditions and better conditions? My view is that the solution to fostering the mobility of judges and court officials and tenants is to make progress faster, and that is true, and you have spoken, in severances, and to allow the second income to be obtained to the pensioners. For many public and state-owned companies and institutions, severance funds were found. Why not in the justice system? I don't think that such incentives would leave the courts without the vast knowledge and experience accumulated in the experience of judges at their best years. In fact, if there were even such a danger, there are always models and ways to keep them as outside associates, as counselors, as mentors. This, of course, provided that pensioners can obtain second income. I absolutely welcome the planned savings for the trial within an unreasonable time limit. It sounds amazing that the Republic of Croatia has paid more than 80 and a half million kuna to the citizens from 2011 to 2013. Was Mr. Minister doing an analysis of these damage claims for the court's slowness and is there anything unreasonable about it? Although there is always a need to repeat slow justice is injustice, there is neither to the hospital nor to go to the hospital for health nor to the court for justice. For justice he fights right here, and in courts he fights injustice. But to return to my slowness and compensation for a trial within an unreasonable time limit. I'm sure the good part was about work disputes. A fellow representative mentioned this in the debate before, and this work dispute against the state or public authorities mainly. Last time I spoke on behalf of the HNS Club about the Law on Administrative Disputes. There were very few of you here, because the debate on criminal law was much more interesting, and that's why the ZUS came only in the evening behind the Dnevnik. That's why I'd like to do it again. The law on general administrative procedure and the Law on Administrative Courts is of utmost importance for citizens because it regulates judicial oversight of the work of the administration, i.e. judicial oversight of public authorities entities. The public authority, whether it is local, regional or state-owned in administrative proceedings or in administrative proceedings where it should have the exact same rights and responsibilities as other legal persons, exceeds the power of all others, either because of legal powers or because of the possibility of abuse of power. That's why this judicial surveillance is important, but only if it's fast and efficient. Just imagine how much amounts were paid only for lost disputes when they were this big only for a fee for trial within an unreasonable period and everything went out of taxpayers' pockets. It is known that even when it is clear that the dispute will be lost by public or executive authorities very often delay, because they either have no money to pay off their debts or by judgments, their debts by verdicts or will come before elections, so they force the judiciary, prosecutors, creditors to spend their time, power and money on taxpayers to slow down and this is the most expensive. They can do it because they have power and power. Each government strives to maintain and strengthen its power and destiny. These are natural social processes, and then it opens up space and the possibility of abuse by doing or by inaction. Every responsible authority, and we consider this authority very responsible, must have tools to control and to issue that power. One of the instruments of control of that power is the fast, efficient and quality judiciary. A judiciary that ensures the legality, equality of all citizens and legal certainty. And the key issue for the legal security of citizens is effective government. That is why, Mr. Minister, we accept this bill of law, convinced that its application will be swift and effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87990	Thank you, too. We've got a little more time, so we've got one replica, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87991	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I don't really know how this distance, not having public transportation has anything to do with availability. Really, you kind of told me that. Well, you said the distance and the lack of public transportation had nothing to do with the availability of the citizens of the courts, so let's say so. So then I would add a little bit here that I think that it is very much in these 43 cities and municipalities where the permanent service is now being introduced, and in the second stage, probably also the abolition of courts will have a lot to do with the availability of citizens because they will have to travel. And they're really going to have problems because they won't have any lines to travel with, and now they don't have what they're talking about, and that's just a colleague from your coalition club, a colleague of the Grbin, when he answered me, telling me to take care of some other cities not just about the town of Križevci. Of course, it's about 43 cities and municipalities, and then everything I'm saying about my city, I'm talking about other cities. You have repeated a word that was just spoken of, you say again on behalf of the HNS club as a coalition partner of the SDP in Kukurik government reform. So, is this about reform or is it about reorganisation, which Mr. Minister says we should clarify and resolve it a little bit. You say judges aren't evenly burdened, so the number of courts needs to be reduced. Well, we could have solved that in some other ways. That's why we don't have to reduce the number of courts and court status unless the judges are evenly burdened with work. This can be solved in other ways. It is likely that there are a lot of those who have been burdened evenly enough, and collateral victims are ultimately in a total part of the reform or reorganisation. And when you talk about severances for judges, you only talked about severances for judges that absolutely need to be done, did you only think about judges or did you think about all the employees in the system we're talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87992	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, fellow Sabolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87993	I really think, and I agree with my colleagues, that distance in principle has nothing to do with availability. You can really be only 10 meters away from the court and that justice is absolutely inaccessible to you. It may be inaccessible because the judges are overloaded, it may be inaccessible because it is unqualityly tried. We live in modern times, today will no longer be necessary physically crossing distances, all or most citizens will believe soon, all citizens will be in IT writing and we will be able to deliver applications and complaints for resolution through a modern IT system. So we won't have to travel. In his presentation, Mr. Minister said it would be possible to testify or be invited to a video conference. Hence, we must have open perspectives toward the modern world, that is, the present world in which we live. We're all informational written, it's important that in all our places everyone has the Internet. And then when it is necessary, it is ultimately much simpler to pay travel expenses than to have courts where we will not have the highest quality. What matters is quality. That's why we're talking about reorganisation, we can also say reform, but she, as the minister himself said in his explanation, refers only to the reorganisation. Reforms have been going gradually, this one has been going on for eight years, and I believe that in this year and a half, this government will be very effective in solving this problem. And all I talked about was the severance of judges.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87994	Thank you very much. Your time is up. Thank you. Now we're gonna take a break and we're gonna continue the debate at 15.00 hours. It's 13:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87995	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, the Honorable Damir Cain will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87996	Dear Vice-President, Mr. Prime Minister, it is certainly good that we have received this report from the President of the Supreme Court in parallel with this Final Proposal of the Law in the fields and offices of the State's Attorney's Office, etc. But I don't think that's crucial. And it's good, if we talk about this minority problem, which is likely to be on this House's agenda soon to discuss the implementation of the Constitutional Law on Minorities. It is also true that judges in this country are probably the world to themselves, and it is clear that this status will in some way try to defend all forces. I won't say they're untouchable, I won't say they're inaccessible, what they absolutely must be is autonomous. However, it is clear that it will defend this property in order to express the world "for myself". What might be even more important is that we get this more appropriate, court, barrage tariff. The Croatian judiciary said the world to itself, first of all because of tariffs I dare say have nothing to do with reality. And every day they show up, probably not just to me, but to all of us here, people, and they claim that all the rights that the legislator simply gives them are kind of denied because of a tariff that they can't follow in any way. Court autonomy should be clearly preserved, but I think these tariffs should also be redefined. What is good in this bill, which follows this bilinguality of the area and which is also in line with the Constitutional laws on minority rights, e.g. Pula-Paul. That's good, that's commendable. So the county court's headquarters is in Pula and then, as we can see here, stretches across the Bale-Bala area, Barban, Brtonigla, Verteneglio, Fažana, Fasana, Fontana, Fontana, Grožnjan, Grisignana and I don't list all of this any further. Why do I say that? Because in the area of the county court, for example, in Vukovar, I don't see that there's one place written in Cyrillic. I'm not going to talk about bilingualism in Istria now, it's clearly understood, it can't be questioned, it's an international standard, it's something that's finally regulated by both the Paris and the London Memorandum, the 47th, the other London ones from 54th, all crowned by the 75 Ozin Agreement. Why would I bring that up? These contracts speak of bilingualism and it is understandable that the fact that it is written there is simply part of the identity and it is understandable that no authority can question it. 47, 54. Istria survives a terrible one, I would say exodus or one terrible agony, for World War II also survived the terrible victims, but what I'm saying first because of Vukovar. Bilingualism or, as our bishops might say, bilingualism must not be questioned in any way. When we talk about criminal courts the same thing is also the same, when I talk about commercial courts here we see that the court's seat is restored to Pazin and that's something to be welcomed, it's required and I think it's absolutely something that makes sense. However, it is important in something else, Article 7 on page 8 which is about to say that we have the Trade Court in Bjelovar for the area of Bjelovar-Bilogorska, Virovitica-Podravska County, then the Commercial Court in Osijek for the area of three or four counties, then the Commercial Court in Pazin, the Commercial Court in Rijeka for the area of Ličko-senjska and Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, the Commercial Court in Split for the area of Dubrovnik-Neretva County and Split-Dalmatia County, then in Varazdin, Zadar and normally in the City of Zagreb. Personally, I think it should be some natural division of the Republic of Croatia. Croatia at this time seems to me to have 575 hundred counties, which cities, which the municipality and there were in 90 years we had seemed to be 105, or 107 maybe 110 municipalities. But what I'm saying is, at that time, by the time we were 90, we knew what wasn't following us after 90. Croatia and the fastest development. At the time, we were probably one of the most centralized communities in Europe, and thus administratively perhaps the most effective administration, because there was no distinction between administration and self-government, and thus easily and most rationally. What do we have today? We have about 80,000 more people who are more employed in the upgrade than they were in the '90s. In Istria, for example. Four thousand people in the upgrade today more employed than in 90, in the state administration working somewhere around 7,840 people, there's normal health care, education, plus 1,400 people in the police, in local self-government over a thousand people and plus somewhere around 3,000 people in utility services. What this means is that in 2014 for 80,000 people more clearly upgrades for salaries, contributions, the cost of material costs is at least 10 billion kuna more than it did or would have done in the 1990s. A year. That money could then be directed directly into concrete development, construction of factories, hotels, etc. On page 8, Article 8, here it is said that in order to resolve disputes relating to ships and sea navigation in inland waters and disputes to which shipping law applies, aircraft, etc., the Trade Court in Rijeka is competent for the area of the Trade Court in Pazin. I'll say it's just logical, too. Article 9 speaks among other things about the Administrative Courts in Rijeka, for the area of Istria, Karlovac, Ličko-senjska, Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, where this or that Croatia is divided into 4 macro-regional or I don't know what to call them, the centre. In Article 13, here on page 10 is spoken of, means the Municipal Court in..., the Municipal Court in Labin, Pazin, the Municipal Court in Poreč,..., the Municipal Court in Rovinj – Rovinj, as well as, so this is where these permanent services of the Municipal Court in Pula, i.e. Poli. are opened. What bothers me, I'll say the same thing, think locally, act globally, which is kind of a abolished municipal court in Buzet. It's true that Buzet today has about 6 grand and 20, 30, it doesn't matter, the residents, with... somewhere around 8,000 people, but Buzet is an old administrative center and I think it was a timely inexcusable mistake to shut down this municipal, not municipal, but judicial center. I repeat, in 1990 there were about 105, 107 or 110 in Croatia, it doesn't matter, 115 municipalities. Buzet was his own and his people's, as they say, the outcasts, where the load is rolled, always keep the hair. But the article now on page 15 on page 12 speaks of criminal courts and then we see that we have a Criminal Court in Pazin, Criminal Court in Poreč..., Criminal Court in Rovinj – Rovinj, Criminal Court in Umag..., as a permanent service of the Criminal Court in Pula - Poli. I'm asking myself a question here where Labin went as a court of law? That Labin doesn't even have permanent service anymore. We have a municipal court in Labin, we don't have a criminal court or a full-time court office, and I don't think that's fair. Why? Because Labinština, it's one space, normally, Labin under quotes as a center, the capital under quotes, which covers..., Kršan, Pican and he would in any way have to survive. Among other things, on page 15, it is said that, in this regard, I quote, data in the work of the Municipal, Criminal Courts in the period from 2011 to 2013 and certain shortcomings as such have been seen, in the current network of courts and, above all, with an unbalanced working burden, existing significant imbalances in the workload of courts, judges, are negatively reflected in their effectiveness, etc., etc. If it's somewhere, here's to paraphrasing like this, 24 hours on the road, then it's in Buzet, right... underneath... and Labin, or... So, if you're supposed to be working on that permanent service of the Criminal Court somewhere, I think you should be in Buzet and Labin, and we see that it just shuts down here. All in all, the law is not questionable because someone will say that everything is more or less what it was, when it comes to Istria, the Trade Court is returning to the Chamber of Commerce, which was in its term of office, if I am not mistaken Vesne Skare-Ozbolt, under quotes, dislocated in Rijeka, but I think this law should somehow follow a new territorial administration, and then it is much, much harder to bite than the redefining of the number and seats of courts, state attorneys, misdemeanors, etc., etc. Personally, I think we should kind of get closer to the territorial structure of the '90s. when the country was the most effective. It's clear that as someone who comes from Buzet, I've said it every time, so I have to say it again and now, it's just wrong for me that this law does not have or is not the city of Buzet because that northern Istria is recognized and I think it should somehow be returned and I don't think sometimes the number of residents or citizens in a particular area should be decisive. You should simply look at what they were, I don't know, some historical, administrative, geographical, and national, political, etc. the need, apostrophe of a territorial structure or territorial units. What we're, I don't know, '45, '47. It ended the way we ended up, which space with 13, 14,000 reduced to about 7, 7, 7, 7, 7, 7, 8, that's something to discuss, but Buzet always had a wheel, he always had a court, and I think it should be returned as one Labin should have a "infringing court" or that service as we call it today. We've been displaced, some will say expelled, and that's simply the problem that today determines the number of inhabitants. All in all, the law can be defended, but especially when it comes to this Labin Crime Court, I think that this should in any case in some way be unambiguously covered and that this or that permanent service of the Criminal Court in Pula must also work from the Labin area. Too bad we don't have a debate on the territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia so that that debate that should be fundamental to the organisation of municipal, criminal, commercial, administrative, etc. The courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87997	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB, the respected Josip Salapic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87998	Thank you, Vice President. The Honorable Minister with an associate. The final proposal of the Law on Areas and Seats of the Courts, which, at the beginning of its discussion of the HDSSB Club, we have so far said in any attempt to reform any of these courts, any state lawyers, any area of the state administration and all others guaranteed that it will be better for our citizens both in access to the protection of their fundamental rights and in the protection of state rights and in what we always call the functionality of the procedure. We believe that this is one of the steps that is being built, not now, not in your term as a minister, but since 2008. And to remind the public of MPs and MPs who were not then in the assembly of the Parliament, one of the conditions of the European Commission towards the Republic of Croatia and in Chapter 23 was the rationalisation of the network of courts in Croatia, the State's lawyers, the so-called a judicial apparatus which is both in our possession and in our analysis, and at cost is quite accumulated precisely and for the reasons why today we are also discussing the need for this kind of reform and the need to bring this system into line with our intentions that last for years. So I don't think history should be forgotten, we should live for the future, but let's remember that there's been a lot of effort in 2009, 2010, and in 2011, and every year when we try some reform. If we really want good for our country, and everyone says that they want both the current government and all those who need to answer to their citizens for the responsibility they have received when the elections go through, then this is one of the laws for which a consensus should be sought, for which everyone should in a particular section support it if we consider and if the analyses are such that this law or a new set of municipal criminal courts, new jurisdiction of the county courts, new solutions when it comes to appeal in county courts if they will be a better service to the citizens of the Republic. For us, the fundamental question was whether by this... final bill the availability of courts on our citizens is even in the entire area of the Republic of Croatia. during the morning debate, we received answers to some questions, where we primarily thought about islands and these situations where citizens are able to have higher costs than the current system. So the answers are such that they won't be like that. As for the functioning of judges and the departure of cases from other courts, we consider it good. If you were to ask me as an agent from Osijek and Osijek-Baranja County if I wanted the Municipality court in Bela Manastir, Valpovo, Nasice, Djakova to remain at the level it was, if I were to speak to the presidents of the judges, then it would be that it would remain, that nothing would change and that it would be in a way that everything is standing the way it works. But I agree that through experience in the DSV, but also through work on all these laws from 2009 to today, I have seen for myself if we really want to do well to the citizens, if we want to have an effective judiciary, that I am now not repeating everything we have been saying for years, and that is the functional procedure, the balance of the case, the resolution of the remaining cases and everything that has been plagued the Croatian judiciary for years and the long trial process, then we must do this step so that every step that will do well we must believe that it will be. The analyses will also show whether the costs are actually saved and what is most important to know, whether our citizens are seeking protection from the court, but Croatia is looking for protection of our country's interests in those proceedings that are conducted under official duty, whether it is better than before or not. We have time, so if some solutions are not good, it's always possible to change the law and return to a better system. The HDSSB Club and our party in general in their policy are otherwise in favour of reshuffled as a judicial part of the courts, state lawyers, and we have been talking for years and about the need to re-establish Croatia's territorial structure, the need to amend the accompanying laws and the Constitution. We are now doing all of this now for a little bit, and we are aware that any policy, any resistance to reform, will bring us to perhaps the next term of a future government or in 8 years that we will really think about maybe another rationalisation in the rounding of courts if there is a state territory of reshuffled counties, if we introduce regions 5 or 7 regions we will have to think about then and the different formation of courts, different work and misdemeanors, municipal and county courts. It is all a future if our conditions of EU membership waiting for us no matter how we look at the situation now who proposes it, is now good or not. The facts are with us in the future preparing something that we will have to respect as a member state, and given the country's financial resources, to the burden and these so far networks of courts and state lawyers, but the territorial structure that I am not now expanding the debate I think that the intention of the HDZ is, above all, to support everything that is functionally. And we have no reason, so we could talk we're asking for the court to stay in as I said, listed all our cities. However, it would not be serious if we wanted good for our country. And here with full responsibility I say that what we've been doing for years is not only your government, but the previous government in this part is good and that it will certainly prove to be better. What we and some colleagues mentioned this morning, and this is the report by the President of the Supreme Court, the first one to be before Parliament. I would say that also the view on this side of the Supreme Court President given the judges and the results and on my possibly some requests that come from certain courts may also be in a certain part of the result that has not made a very deep analysis of what has been done for years, so that then perhaps some assessment in the first report may have been a little hasty said. I guess what we've been doing for six years, if something's wrong now after six years, then we shouldn't have even started six years ago. We should've left it all standing. But I repeat, there is one political reason, the other are these financial reasons, and the most important reason is to respect above all that this part of the process is modernized, that we are a country not having hundreds of presidents, but that will have functional judges who will be sufficiently educated, who will not delay the proceedings and that will not hide behind the functions of the President of the Courts, so that they have a smaller working norm that they do not have to meet if the presidents are judges, and their courts are staring at cases half-empty, while at the same time we have larger cities, buried courts, tired judges who cannot endure this great, strong pressure and who cannot work all day on more cases because it is simply impossible. And that's what's holding the system back and that's what we think isn't good. We'll record it, we've got time, we've been recording it for six years. We'll keep track. But I'm saying, what you ask of both the Ministers and the Government and the people who care about the state budget is all good, this is just one wheel in that whole series of wheels to make the judiciary work. We also had somewhere before the State's Attorney's Office's report, if there isn't enough funds, it's a little strange and that the Director of USKOK and the State's Attorney's Office is asking, asking the Ministry of Finance to make money, so that the system can function. Also, let's remember one rebalance when you're out of 800 million. Maybe you'll stay for a new rebalancing now. We believe that, we know the circumstances that follow and the rebalancing of the budget. But every reform requires certain financial resources, the modernisation of the system. All judges will have plenty of time to adapt to the new system that's scheduled for this. We have more reforms ahead of us. But if there's not enough modernized procedure, information, educated people, then we're questioning the functionality of the system. Everything rests on finances and without investment and in modernisation and in the very building of courts and in the very education of judges and advisers and all people working in the judicial system. We're not gonna do much here. So that's our joint task. This is not a topic for some political bickering except for that local patriotism when we have to, we're expected to say that it's simply protecting what's at home when we get home. But sometimes it is necessary to listen to everything, but it is reasonable to assess what is the interest of our country. It's a small Croatian country. We have a huge judicial apparatus. The reason for this was a large number of courts, people's employment, the accumulation of the system and the administrative apparatus and in the courts themselves. Because now you can't chase people out, throw them out on the street and say you're not needed. So they need to be taught that they can participate in all procedures, that some of the jurisdiction of the courts in the future can also be transferred to staff who have not worked on these cases so far, that we simply use people, to make the system efficient, and that the finances are such that they all have a whole. Without it, we're not exactly on our way. I believe that the time will come when we will talk about some issues in Croatia about what we have talked about today, about the courts, later on about the State Attorney's Office, and hopefully soon after, when all these political passions and the need for different reforms and on the territorial structure of Croatia are quieted down, that in a few years, in 4.5 years or at the latest 8 we will discuss that the courts will be regionally formed and the state's attorneys and that we will have judges who can deal with the time in which we live, and that is that Croatia is an EU member of the EU and that our judiciary must follow European trends because we are simply obliged to respect what the citizens have given us the mandate. And that's why in this section, according to this law, and in this next one about the State's Attorney's Office, you have the support of our club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u87999	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88000	Thank you very much, dear colleague Salapic. You also mentioned in this debate the understandable negotiations for entry into the EU chapter 23 and said that the European Commission has requested, among other things, the rationalisation of courts. Namely, they've probably seen some things maybe better than we've seen inside. The People's Dictionary said that we don't get enough music for relatively much money, so what's said is a lot of money, and a little music, so less music. So that rationalization, but that's about ten years, maybe more, we're taking it one step at a time to make the system better, more efficient, more just, more efficient. How popular it is today to remind myself of the changes to the Constitution in 2010 I would also take this opportunity to remind myself that we have taken advantage of these amendments of the Constitution and to further strengthen the independence of the State Judiciary Council through these changes. That was the case, but also the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. So, by amending the 2010 Constitution, we have also taken those steps. But there's a lot of work ahead of us. So a lot of small or large steps, let's say for the past ten years. But we still see that with some, for example, percentages of pending cases, for example at the Municipal Civil Court in Zagreb, we are not satisfied and that this will require new and new efforts. But I suggest that we be together just as we were in the negotiations to join the EU that you mention, where we all sat at the table together, representatives and the judicial authorities, and agreed on the steps that we owe to open and then closed Chapter 23.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88001	Replication response, dear Joseph Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88002	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mrs Kosor, we remember both in 2010 but also in 2011 when it simply started in this first reform that was our condition, what resistances were right from the local community and even from some of our fellow representatives who were mayors or mayors in their cities. And what's going on? You come home to your base, your cities and municipalities and then the President of the Court comes to you who's mayor and says it's bad, the citizens will get worse, they'll have bigger costs, don't do it. And then there's pressure, and then it's created, so we don't do it. At the same time, the European Commission expects us to do what we do under Chapter 23. I think it's wrong here at first because it's said why some ministry or government of any left or right would go into reform if it goes to the harm of its citizens. Which would be a normal government that wants to go well with its country and people in such a reform as to increase costs and not reduce. It simply entered the system that has been accumulated for years, as such ineffectiveness has been at an extremely high level, and then it is easier for a judge in a smaller court to work on 10 cases than to be buried with 100 cases. Then when the efficiency and evaluation of judges are measured, then it has this grade excellent, and the one who worked so he couldn't breathe from the case he didn't do his homework enough. And that's the imbalance of the system and in the justice system itself. Well, this is all we've done, and today we've been talking about it all day is another step and a step to make us feel better. And we've forgotten all kinds of pressures, various meetings and negotiations that some don't remember now, but there are these videos and phonogram records. If some of our colleagues said one thing in 2011 or 2010, and today they forget and say the other completely, then it would be political. And sometimes it will take a public reminder to see what the situation was like when it comes to courts and about the territorial structure and highways. There'll be plenty of time to talk about everything because a lot of it's been done on that road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88003	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the club Jadranka Kosor and HGS, the respected Jadranka Kosor will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88004	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. And indeed, a lot has already been said so far. I think that in principle we all speak alike, all of us, with the wish of Mr. Minister, that all the changes to the laws that are ahead of us and that will follow will be to go on one hand to strengthen the rule of law, the rule of law and, of course, to the benefit of our citizens and citizens. Of course, this always reflects the efficiency of the judiciary on both the economy and the investment potential and the investment climate. And that big investors are looking at what court practice is, how quickly disputes are resolved, it's not irrelevant. For every big investor, he knows that if by chance one who invests big money comes and faces the dispute to know that it is possible to resolve it within 6 months, a year and data that it is possible that some processes will get through to 5, 6, 7, 8 years will certainly not encourage anyone to invest in Croatia. But first of all, and I agree with everyone who's talked about it, they have to be our citizens and citizens, so people who often have court as both the last port and the last foothold. They put their last hopes into it to fight someone's right. Often they feel extremely cut off and spend great money but it is not the most important, they feel a huge injustice, and that injustice is then felt through the potential slowness of a person’s procedure and the fact that they can’t see at all if it could end then it reflects on all other pillars of government. So people are dissatisfied then with power, dissatisfied in the country. So this is an important, extremely important debate. Yes, of course, we all want an effective and more effective judiciary. Any reorganisation, any change, any major or small reform for the better if a step on the better needs to be welcomed and should be supported. There are many problems that we can talk about and talk about long and wide. Here, colleagues and colleagues, a colleague from the HNS, mentioned among other things the system of evaluation and remuneration, all because the whole system, or the pillar of government, is once again made up of only people. So, if he's just, then we can expect the best of them, but we have to pay them the most, so we have to value them. It's the same system that has to have mechanisms to eliminate those who don't work, who do bad work, who fall for judgments. So it's a system that's very complicated, very complex and therefore requires a careful political debate. Of course we support the objectives of these amendments and the addition of the laws. Here since 2007, the number of courts has been reduced by 95. So these changes and additions take place on the trail of long-standing reforms, long-standing efforts to take a step further. And nothing really could be said is new. Here may be the reference to a reduction in the number of court presidents, here from 67 to 24, the president of criminal courts from 61 to 22. The reduction of the number of judges who perform special duties, so the release from the labour norm and all with one important goal that we can most simply formulate in one sentence and I believe that no one will take it wrong, in that second pillar of government, when we say that judges have to work more here, most judges also have to work more. So the formula is basically very, very simple. I'm going back to that big reduction reform, the reorganisation of the courts. It is possible to repeat once again, here from 108 municipal courts in 2007 to 67 2009, 2010, and now 68 county, 21 2007 to 15 2011, infringing 110, at 63 2011. So these are data that should always be highlighted because nothing of course ended with the mandate of one minister, nothing began with the mandate of the next minister, as nothing ends with the mandate of one government, and nothing spectacular begins with the mandate of another government. If we respect what is called continuity in these great affairs, and if one government, and one minister and one ministry continues on the good foundations of the predecessors then of course we can look with a lot of optimism at the form of the work of courts and judicial authorities in the way that we all actually imagine. Ideally it can never be, there will always be those who will say that there is too little money, but when you take that amount for last year that is somewhere around billions and 250 million kuna and I repeat what I mentioned in the debate before noon, that is, in the morning replica that 84% of these funds that the state budget has allocated to finance the work of courts and that 84% is actually going to spend on employees, most of course for salaries. Then it shows that we have to keep working. And we have absolutely nothing against this reorganisation in terms of, or if it will lead to better organisation of work processes, to be more work repeat, but also what I think is particularly important and particularly frequent pain and that is uniform court practice. It is already today, and on many occasions when we have discussed any proposal to amend and supplement the law of the justice system, i.e. the Ministry of Justice, not uniform judicial practice is something that cannot contribute to the rule of law, which means building a rule of law and rule of law. Last year, we also had in large cases, in large court cases, in the application of the Law on Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters with EU countries a real example of unequal case law in cases which were and have caused a major political debate, huge political recommendations, and then there was a rescue uniform case-law of county courts. But something completely opposite happened. Certainly to mention once again what, in the context of this debate, what the President of the Supreme Court's report points to, and I can't wait for that debate, even though I've heard that it might be thinking of just ending up on that report and we in the House don't have the right to debate, I think that would be very bad. Because the President of the Supreme Court, and that would be very good with the President of the Supreme Court here to discuss, says: "It should be pointed out that, as a rule, the work of the former court as a permanent service of a court to which it has been joined over a long period is not rational and opens up the possibility of violating business processes and does not contribute to the creation of a rational and better organisation which was the basic idea of rationalisation. The costs of doing business are maintained at the previous level." So, the President of the Supreme Court points out that this rationalisation does not benefit for the time being. And what's just as important is that there's no savings. Therefore, Mr. Minister, I know it would be a broad public debate, but I would still ask you to perhaps say how much you have coordinated as a ministry with both the Supreme Court and the Office of the President of the Supreme Court. Because I think such coordination is in preparation for these, so I dare say reform projects are important and welcome. We had this practice at the time of the negotiations to join the EU, and often we were in one place, regardless of which one government should not influence another in any way, often we found ourselves at the same table meaning also the Prime Minister, the President of the Supreme Court, the President of the State Judicial Council, the chief state attorney and talked about the common interest, and the common interest was Croatia in the EU. We had this practice at the time of the negotiations to join the EU, and often we found ourselves in one place, regardless of which one authority must in no way affect another, often we found ourselves at the same table meaning also the Prime Minister, the President of the Supreme Court, the President of the State Judicial Council, the Attorney General and talked about the common interest, and the common interest was Croatia in the EU. Of course, I agree with me on the reform findings as if all of us would of course reform, but only when they get those to their door, and not by a millimeter away. That's why I think it's good in this proposal, so the decision to specialize in county courts, so the decision to specialize in specialization will equally certainly help what's important to us again, which I'm coming back to because I think it's particularly important, and that's evening up court practice. I mentioned here the Municipal Court in Zagreb, I think that, the Municipal and Civil Court in Zagreb, I think that this solution is not so bad because almost 29% of the outstanding cases in municipal courts belong to the municipal court in Zagreb and if we do not seek solutions, of course, I am not for experiments, but if we do not seek solutions, then we will not come to a solution. Here, in principle, it would be all along with a natural note at the end because very often in politics we are faced with such examples, about the ratio of three pillars of power, so legislative, executive and judicial. I think we must also have courage and openness to talk openly about problems and then mention here and... the president of the judicial organization, the gentleman... yesterday who, I repeat this once again, said that here was the Government since 2008, and as I was a member of the Government and the Government, then I feel personally called, various..., as Mr... said, a reduction in salary by 5 times. We've been keeping an eye on this, and I'm going to end it, and I'm not going to expand the debate any further, but we've been taking great care of the sensitivity of the judicial work, of their untouchableness, it has to be so, but in order to get what the citizens and the citizens want, as well as all of us probably in this hall, that those who work well and who do a lot of work are well rewarded, and those who do little and who do bad work to be marked and ultimately detimized for that kind of work. No matter what we are in politics and regardless of the independence of the judiciary, we must not liaise and hesitate to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88005	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First honoured Josip Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88006	Thank you, Vice President. Mrs. Kosor, I forgot in my debate, but you mentioned it. I think it would be good to report by the President of the Supreme Court to do an analysis of how much we have found since the beginning of the reform, from 2008 to today, which was the number of cases left behind at that time, how many today. What is the number of pending cases by large courts by burden, we mentioned Zagreb and Split today, and it is good to put Rijeka and Osijek there, to see what has changed since 2008 to today, and also the financial indicators of everything. Were there really savings in all phases of reform such that it supports our significant attention, that we would not be in disbalancing with our discussions, that we have good intentions and that we want to reform the system in good faith, and that it does not show significant savings and then report to that end, and I hope that we will discuss this report because it does not make sense that some report is being given by the Parliament, and that it is not being discussed, and then there are indicators that need to think about some next step or move on or move on, if the practice and the system that we are talking about here today are not even. I think it's very important to understand the whole problem of the justice system.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88007	He's responding to a replica, the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88008	Yes, I'm quite sure that this debate will be because it would be absolutely pointless to get a report from the President of the Supreme Court which is perfectly structured, I've read it, examined it, and not discuss it here and possibly make any decisions that will surely be helped by the Minister, or the Ministry of Justice. But in this context, of course, one, which I didn't just say, pointed out, let's say the information on the abolished verdicts, right in the Supreme Court report, means more than 22% in 2008, here at 20% and slightly more in the last year. It's the same thing to discuss. It seems to me that it's a pretty large number if it's decided, if that number of convictions are abolished and it goes back to a retrial. So we have a lot of work to do, but I think it is important that, as I said before the end, these three pillars of government on which the Croatian state rests, in no way of course they cannot get involved in each other's business. But if we can speak sovereignly about the problems in the system, that and the more we talk about the problems that are evident, we will certainly move the limits to the better.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88009	Another replica, respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88010	This fellow you have now said in your reply to the replica, and it should always point out what ultimately and our Constitution defines, on the separation of power, judicial, executive and legislative, but also on their mutual cooperation when it comes to strategic issues, and that is not at all questionable where it belongs. But even when you were talking about the untouchableness of the judicial authority, I believe that you were not thinking about it, because you yourself have criticised a large percentage of the abolished verdicts, but here you see what I want specifically to mention and what is a big problem, not only with us, but also in the world, especially in Europe, for a long time. It's since there's no political influence to strengthen this internal addiction anymore. The DSV, therefore, the State Judicial Council, is elected by the judges themselves to the DSV. The judges themselves therefore choose and decide who will be admitted to their ranks, who will make progress and whom they will thank for their previous duty. And now I'm asking you, and that's a big problem, which is what we're going to have to meet about, and that's where we have to help as legislators. Who will choose a judge for a leader to advance when he is pedantic, when he really follows the law, when he is blameless, when he points to problems in the judiciary among colleagues. Such a person, these great judges can tell you that they are not popular among their colleagues, and they decide on his promotion, so not politics, but they. And the fate authority just wanted that part of responsibility. However, here I can say that lately everything has been taking on that part of responsibility because it is not easy to deal with a colleague and in such a way as to tell him, listen, you're not doing well, I'm going to have to start a procedure against you. It's not pleasant, but the authorities themselves wanted that power, so here's what needs to take on such a single responsibility. And of course she's obliged to suffer and criticise such an account, do you meet those... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88011	Thank you. The reply to the replica of the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88012	Thank you very much. I agree with such a judge as you're talking about seems to me exactly in Zadar, which is the president of the court who spoke very critically about the work of the court, and he spoke critically about how the tasks he finally gave himself or her goals were fulfilled, so he was dissatisfied with himself and spoke publicly of it, which seems to me to be an excellent example. When you mention the work of the DSV, there is something I hope that no one will misread, namely in this composition of the DSV, one of the two representatives representing the Croatian Assembly who are members of the DSV is also the President of the Assembly Mr Leko. So he was elected to the DSV before I knew he was president of the Croatian Parliament and is now a member of the DSV parliament, and he is another person in the state, so another political person in the country. I think that this may not be particularly convenient and that we could discuss it and think about it whether it is quite and in accordance with the law or the Constitution. What we really wanted, I repeat, Mr. Leko was elected to the DSV before he became President of the Parliament, but now as President of the Croatian Parliament he is sitting in the DSV and deciding on the choice of judges. It's the same thing I'm applying as one of the topics that we can talk about peacefully.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88013	Minister Orsat Milenic has now come to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88014	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. So the question is already raised through more debates about relations with the judicial authority, about how much we talk, how much we agree, how much we coordinate and coordinate. So you asked directly for the President of the Supreme Court, he's besides gonna ask him when he's there, but I can only say from my point of view, was among the first people to see what we're thinking of doing and thus he gave and gives support. So when I read it, I'm not going to comment on it now because I don't think it's the time until it's presented outside, but I could give you a whole series of sentiments or a whole series of excerpts that speak exactly in favor of what we're doing, explicitly. As for this issue of permanent service and their effects, of course you should have seen it in the long term, but when you look at it, it wasn't meant to work for it, it's said that over time it doesn't cause an effect that might be synergy to stop and connect immediately. But when it's time for the report, it'll be there. Also, I talked to all the presidents of the county courts, all the presidents of the municipal courts as well as the state's attorneys, almost all of them got public support for what we're doing, and besides, it's being said in the cameras so it's very simple to check. I'm talking to the president of the DSV and we're coordinating, or we're agreeing that we're not making moves that are concrete, but simply time-consuming as follows if this is adopted in the Parliament, and we're all on the same track together. Someone might think that something different could have happened, something like this, and eventually, it's my responsibility if you want to say so, and I'm signing it, and sometimes I have to choose from more than one thing I think is best, and I'm going to suggest it to you. You're talking about the Supreme Court president's report, let's remember when, two years ago, how many attacks there were when we changed it into law, and now it's actually being accepted here as something that is good and desirable and where things will be open and talk about it, and the terrible were attacks, that we're destroying independence, that I don't know what we're doing either. The state will fail because we put it in the Court Act. Nothing bad is going to happen, but most people have read about it and they want to talk about it because they think that in mutual communication they can do something better for the system. But let's remember what the atmosphere was like and how many objections there were to it and a whole series of provisions. Some other people in the system are representatives, there are no unions, but representatives are their professional associations and then they normally look one way, we look another way, it's like always. You tell someone you need to work more for the same money, they'll be less happy than if you told them to work less for the same money and normally they'll rebel and have some complaints, so that's normal in every segment. It's a little more sensitive here because of the relationship between different branches of government. But to talk about any law you'll always have someone to say don't touch it the best way this is now the ideal world. With all these criticisms when they come, they're more than welcome. Here and everyone here you know who you've told someone that we've always considered them and seen what we can do, but it bothers me when a criticism comes that doesn't say otherwise. Okay. and we have a state with which no one is satisfied, that's what I think we've come to realize. We offer this solution. Okay. That's a proposal from some of those you quoted. So what do you think is different? But you can't say don't touch anything, because that means the condition is ideal, and the condition isn't ideal. We spend a lot, and we get a little. So whoever said do it differently, so you see how much we've revised this change and this draft between the first and the second reading, and we'll always do it. But we're going to come up with some kind of constructive solution and whoever it is we'll always listen to, see and consider. But the criticism isn't right, and why it's wrong, and because we said it like that, and we know it doesn't serve anything best. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88015	Josip Boric is expressing his desire to replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88016	Thank you very much. Well, Your Honor, you were talking about everyone agreeing, etc. There are some who are opposed to this, so there are some. I just wanted to remind you of your position, which was explained in 2011 by Mrs Ingrid Antičević, who then announced that the SDP would file a constitutional suit for abolishing the courts in the Republic of Croatia. And that's when she found out that we, unfortunately, didn't get more quickly than just more expensive justice. It was in your power in 2011. We now speak differently, i.e. You speak differently. And that's allowed. We just have to warn people that this is one step in my view to abolishing that will most hurt those who live in rural areas, and in cities it will be more or less the same as it has been so far. And it's clear to me that Mr. coat of arms won't be angry, because he's in Pula having his own judgment, and it's just easier for him to do it. But we on the islands will certainly have one problem as much as you try to explain to us that that's exactly what you say. And yet I'm warning you that credibility, even when you're guaranteeing something, is not somehow. You understand? You guaranteed us on that famous Lex Perkovic that nothing would happen and that the international community would even agree with it, so we saw how it ended. That's why it's a little problem for me. Understand? That's what's bothering me. And I know how it's gonna end, unfortunately I do.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88017	The replica matches Orsat Milenić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88018	So we're talking about credibility and continuity. I deliberately avoided getting into these questions now, what who and when were saying, especially about the court's suspension, so what did the representatives of your party say. I didn't say anything in 2011, but I could now draw a terrible amount of quotes from your colleagues who have just advocated and much more drastic than what is now being done and now people are supporting it mostly. So the others are on their own. But now you're against it, and now I could tell you, and your colleague xy was saying something else in 2010. So I'm not gonna do that because first we all talk about ourselves, so are you. I'm talking to myself. In 2011, I'm sure you didn't hear me say anything about that. So I don't know why you're putting anyone's words in my mouth right now. Wait a minute!
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88019	Don't throw away your friend Boric! You've replicated, listen to the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88020	That's what it's all about. Just like I don't put it to you. I said everyone, I said multiple times that I was convinced that all my predecessors who worked on this job worked in the best faith with the best intentions and wanting to do the best and the results overall show that we have an ever better result. And one of those things why we have them is the rationalization that was made. You heard when she started. It started in 2005, sixth, 2008 etc. And she's going. As far as we're concerned, we're always talking about some kind of fear of citizens. I'm telling you, you, your fellow citizens can only change that there will be more down there people who will solve their problems than less. And that's how it is. And now believe it or not, but time will tell. I mean, tell people what the court is going to do. Why would he leave? If there are enough cases for the court, he'll be down there. But that he'll have logistics, he won't. Why would it have logistics? And I don't see why we have to have a small feudal system where every small place has to have its own court, if it can be solved otherwise and the citizen gets legal protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88021	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club will speak to the esteemed Davorin Mlakar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88022	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, when you're released. I'll wait, but I believe you already know what we're going to say so we don't surprise you with anything special. We heard in the opening statement of this Law on Areas and Courts' Headquarterss a whole series of statistical analytical data. I think it is important to know them, and I am glad that you talked about this in particular some comparative display that we can compare ourselves with countries, other EU countries that often serve as a role model in some things. One piece of information that you may have been able to enter, which would further strengthen your proposal, is the fact that the Republic of Croatia pays annually because of the slowness of its judiciary, judicial costs before the European Court of Justice, but this is less important for this particular issue. It is my pleasant task to say today in front of my club that we can praise this bill with at least two basics. The first is that the law has taken into account objections to the opposition, not all of them, but some important objections are in the light of the law that the HDZ club has proposed leaving the municipal county court in Velika Gorica. We had reason to say that. We were talking about a city that is the sixth largest city in the Republic of Croatia, a city that, if what happened was the subject of the first reading of the law, became an exception to the rules on the courts' seats and here is to commend it and thank you for respecting our arguments and keeping the system that we had in Velika Gorica. The second question is whether it is most fortunate now that the County Court in Velika Gorica is in charge of part of the City of Zagreb, but this is almost more about Zagreb County and the ring, and then it is easier and more logical to support this proposal. There's another reason why I should commend this law. It is a fact that in this law, and I will take you just a minute, to say that this law determines the seat of the courts in a way that says that the seat of the Municipal Court will be in Crikvenica, Glina, Novi Gradiška and speaks about where the seat of municipal, county courts, where the permanent services and lists the cities and municipalities where these courts are located. Recently, we have been interpreted from the same government's camp but other ministries as completely irrelevant that when certain bodies are established, whether judicial or administrative, there is also the seat of the place, the city or the municipality in which these offices are located. So the Department of Administration suggested that we have instead of 20 per new five offices of the state administration. First, they were 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 and then when the promoters accepted the criticism, then the offices were set up for a particular area of some counties. No one could have guessed, since it was not in the law, where it would have been the headquarters of these offices of the state administration. And that's why it's to praise the fact that the courts have made it much more normal and clearer and that each city and municipality are written to say so by a colloquial name and last name where the seat of each court is. What it also says in your explanation is that it will be the effects of this reorganisation of the judicial system, parts, seats and areas. A more balanced working burden on courts and judges, a reduction in the costs of a delegation of cases from burdened courts to courts with a minor inflow of cases. A smaller number of courts provide more uniform court practice and give better opportunity to specialize judges. These are some valuable criteria, hard to prove, but let's believe that a smaller number of courts guarantee uniform court practice than boredom. Although I think there should be more to talk about the general meetings of the Supreme Court and those positions that will take place and be mandatory to the whole system. Greater mobility of judicial staff, more equidistant use of existing resources. I will say here and in the name of the judiciary that these resources are, and these are about information systems, information equipment, official vehicles, are not at some envious level, and that we will support that informational, especially informational, these courts are strengthened regardless of these e-matters and what you have said about the information processing of the case. A reduction in the number of municipal court presidents and misdemeanor courts, that must be a constant savings. The reduction in the number of judges performing special duties will likely remain a further problem, especially in the presidents of the courts and in those categories as far as their norm can be reduced. The possibility of better organisation of work processes, rounding up courts facilitates judicial and judicial authorities to monitor the work of courts, their presidents and judges. Of course, in this whole system, I believe that a significant improvement in judicial administration can be made, and that's a lot to say, I would say the direct influence of the Ministry of Justice that can affect that. I think the judicial administration, especially when you see the number of officials given the number of judges, can be more adequate and qualityd. What we wanted to suggest regardless of the support, and you stated in your explanation, that the different period of entry into force of certain provisions of this law is thus our suggestion if possible and applies to this Article 4(4), that this standard enters into force on 1 April 2016. So, it's the longest time limit for some of the provisions of this law, to at least try, we know it's the appeal procedures for that to happen by the end of next year, so by the end of 2015. That would make your proposal more consistent in some way. All these standards that enter into force with a delayed time condition would be logical to enter, there are still years and months, to enter by the end of next year and not to extend the entry into force of those standards until 2016. The more it's one of the great improvements in the system so far. Namely, here is what our public says, it is a provision that the county courts will be able to decide by appeal, regardless of what the territorial authority of the municipal court has made a first-degree ruling, which we believe will really speed up the work in particular in the second degree of appeal proceedings. And that's certainly one of the things I'm not going to say is that it was cancer wound, was one of the serious objections to our judicial system. So, if it's possible our suggestion would be to have that standard in place by the end of next year. We believe that this is the territorial jurisdiction of the county courts that one of the best corrections in this law is proposed and that in this way second-degree courts will really contribute to the achievement of justice but not to be so slow because we believe that one of the biggest objections to the judicial system in the Republic of Croatia is not only a bunch of laws but also a slowness in achieving interest in judicial bodies, i.e. slowness in decision-making or judgment. In view of all of this, we welcome once again the efforts of the government and the ministry, in particular to prepare the final text of the law, regardless of always the territorial structure will be an objection, you spoke of it, each place would want to have as many institutions in its area as possible. If what I have read is guaranteed that the suggestions are that they will be resolved by this law, although we are not entirely sure we may not share the view that this will all happen, but also in part if we move things from today's situation we believe that this will be a positive step forward. I would like to point out once again that I thank you for accepting the HDZ Club's proposal and setting the seat of the County and Municipal Court in Velika Gorica, which is now in line with the jurisdiction of the criminal court, the criminal court, and we think it is quite coherently prepared. We thank you for that, and I can say on behalf of the HDZ Club that we will support this final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88023	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. First respected Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88024	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Mlakar, I am a person who hardly ever answers for replicas because I believe that anyone can express his opinion either when speaking on behalf of the club, or when speaking in an individual debate, and never happened to me to answer for a replica before my individual debate. But this amount of inaccuracy that you have now, not only said, but said in the beginning, and eventually really challenged me to have to replicate. Before you spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club about the Municipal Court in Velika Gorica, it was before that it was a session of the Committee on Legislatives and a session of the Committee on Justice at which I spoke about it. So even your colleague, an outside member of the Justice Committee, told me I took all the words out of his mouth. After that, in an individual debate, I also spoke about the Velika Gorica Municipal Court. So, it was done with joint efforts and it would be at least correct.../The speaker turned off./... The speciality of the title that you were in the minister's office after you received a written invitation from me and you, and colleague Shuker, and colleague Beus Richembergh, and Mayor of Velika Gorica Drazen Barisic and then we discussed the subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88025	Answer. ... Take it easy, don't throw it away, please stop throwing it away. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Turn off the microphone, be nice. The answer to Davorin's Mlakar's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88026	Thank you very much. My colleague Fabiančić-Kryžanić, I'm sorry you performed like this. I haven't said a single word to anyone who stood up for the rest of the court, County and Municipal in Velika Gorica, as it has been resolved so far. The one where I was going to spare you, and I see that it may be good that you don't report too often for individual debates, in this part is the fact that you as a parliamentary representative are not at all authorized to invite me to a meeting at the Ministry of Justice, especially when that meeting is organised by the Minister of Justice. So we responded to the meeting because we were interested in Velika Gorica from some of our vanitys to whether we would answer or not to report to talk about the content of the law and about the seat of the courts. You, precisely, fought on your own behalf, spoke to the Justice Committee where I was present on the need for the Grand Gorica court to remain. But I wasn't talking about anyone who stood up for it, and that's what it says in the explanation that the minister listed. If you think that I would have to especially praise you in my actions because you spoke for yourself, and your club disagreed with our position, and had no objection that the Great Gorica was abolished by that court, that is another question. But this is a question that you must resolve within the limits of the SDP club in the Croatian Parliament rather than transfer responsibility to someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88027	Second replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88028	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Mlakar, I think the most important thing is that the court in Gorica has remained, and now whoever credits everything, probably the ones who did the least, and that doesn't apply to you fellow Fabiancic, the most. But I answered the line for something else. Today, we may have mentioned little of what is crucial, which is that in the past, let's take only this millennium, or this century, in the last 14 years, in the name of the dispute of the courts, a few hundred million kunas from the state budget. And to me, when we talk about this agenda point, and I think you pointed it out in your debate, it's crucial. With these money we could inform all these courts, with these money we could solve the problem of accommodation, and also with these money could be a lot, a lot of things solved. And it is far more important for Croatian citizens to exercise the right to justice than whether accounting and the President of the Court will sit somewhere. It is far more important for judges to sit there, and in technical, information equipment, this possibility is given. And if in 2015 this amount for the dispute of courts is lower by 10 or 20 million kuna and these money is spent on informing the courts, first of all to sort out the grantine, then we can say that we did a good job. Secondly, what I'm also saying is, we're like a party that's been in power to launch certain rationalization processes and I think it would be extremely unfair and incorrect today that because of some partial interest, we're saying it's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88029	Then said Minister Orsat Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88030	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, there was one issue of harmonising the caselaw, the general session of the Supreme Court and the position. I agree absolutely, it will be a matter that will be in front of you relatively soon, through the Law on Courts where we need to find a simple better mechanism to bring court practice into line and to ensure that our citizens have better legal certainty. The way it is now, nobody's happy and we're working on it. So it'll be in the draft court law, so not here, it'll be there, so we'll talk about it. That's the one thing that's going to connect with the Court of Appeals, you know that the issue of the High Court of Penalty has been raised. We do what we do now... where the biggest problem is, and these are the first-degree courts at this point. When this phase is over then it's safe, we need to start taking care of the Court of Appeals. It's about the High Criminal Court, and I honestly think Croatia needs more High, Civilian or Appealal Civil Court because there's a practice even more coherent and a lot more cases than the Criminals, but I'm not saying it shouldn't, but then it's a question of different degrees between the Civilian and the Criminal, one of which we actually have on two levels and it goes, etc. So that's one question we don't run away from, though, which we think we all have to address together and that's going to be our turn. As for the deadline for the appeal procedure, we're going to consider this proposal, which means that it shrinks to 01.01, just maybe see what it's all about. The criminal cases are about 8 grand, so I'm saying... how we're getting into it, so we're starting with that one, it's just a new system, we've never had it in Croatia. We didn't want to, and we didn't dare put the whole case in a lawsuit at once because if anything in the system didn't work out, it would be a much bigger problem. Then we imagined going in with... which is 7.5%, the family 3.5%, 6% of the land's library, and when we test that out for a while, it means one half a year, then go in with the rest of the case, means the rest of the 83%. So that's the kind of... that we made. We can try to cut this short, we'll see, we'll put it together, I don't mind, we just wanted to go into multiple degrees, to be sure of what we're doing, not to cause a problem through information, through anything else. The information, the basic tool that we have, the tool that is the future, here you were wondering, was talked about some rank lists, which the court is good, which is not, etc., very soon you will be able to see it on the website. And now you have in some kinds of cases, let's say by land-based book, if you leave, you see exactly how many courts it solves, how many days it takes for a case. The ambition is that we have it for everything and citizens need to know because they pay for it. Wherever we can use it, we'll use it. We have, so we predict what we're doing and we're already with 50 million less kuna for the budget, if we're looking at the four-year period by 2012, 2012. - 2016, and things are going well. We still have the Municipal and Civil Court in Zagreb and then according to the agreement comes the Supreme Court into the system, the VTS and all the courts are inside. The offenses were especially... but we all, we finally managed to put all the dishes in one system. You'll see, one of the things when we did this, the data because every information system actually depends on the data, as they're entered, so you can make it ideal and perfect, if someone doesn't input correct data, you actually. So as you will see in the report of the President of the Supreme Court, they've been harmonising with us, we've been harmonising with them so that these are the data common which are who they are in the network. If they're all correct, it's no one, we can't, we know it means what the court brings in as its data. So that's what we're gonna do. The payments are pretty big. We're significantly smaller this year, so we've been going over the last four years if I'm not mistaken, we've been going 27 in 2011, some 32 was in 2012, 36 I think in 2013, so somehow, we're at 8, so until about ten days ago, so the execution will be about 12 million kuna this year. That's what we changed in the Court Act. However, the effects will not be seen for two years because there is now a reasonable trial for the period before 2010, you understand, so, but certainly, there will be success. .../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88031	We're moving on to an individual debate. The first reported a respected Vesna Fabiancic-Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88032	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, here, my debate will be brief, given that we really talked a lot about this topic, it's about the law in the second reading. I believe that this final draft law is good, primarily because it will bring us to a more even working burden, to a more uniform court practice, to a more even use of existing resources and to a reduction in the duration of the procedure. This final proposal and to get to it, as we heard in the introduction of the motions, and also in the discussions of colleagues, a very broad debate has been held between the judiciary, committees, amongst the professional public and I believe that good solutions have been found and that these good solutions are precisely the result of the efforts of all of us here and at the plenary session at first reading and at the working bodies sessions. In no way was I going to point out any merits in the debate, so I responded with such a replica to the presentation of fellow Mlakar. But apparently, that part of elemental decency doesn't understand, so my friendly invitation from my colleague to join me with Minister Mlakar is respecting it as if I think I'm authorized or not authorized to invite him. At least now I know when and to what extent I can call him politely and collegiately, and when I can only address him in some other way. The unbalanced workload that is now present is evident. If we take just a few examples, and let's say that in the Municipal Court of Shares we have two judges who each have about 800 cases in the work, in the Rijeka Municipal Court there are 400 cases in the work, the Rab Municipal Court, which is very often mentioned today, has one judge who has thousands of cases in the work, and now I don't think that there should be any particular judicial writing and knowledge that neither the quality of the trial in all sorts of cases that are a thousand, nor that we have courts in which there are 90 cases. All these judges work for equal pay with an unequal quality and with unequal success, and ultimately the most dissatisfied citizens because certainly the citizen who gets legal protection in court in a way that has one, now I'm talking about civil cases one debate a year or possibly in two years, certainly doesn't get legal protection. And that's why this rationality that's going to reconcile this illogicality is certainly on the right track. I would even agree with the expression of the minister that in certain parts there is a feudal system, indeed I will mention once again the Municipal Court of Rab in which we have the President of the Court who is the President of the Court of Justice, we have the Director of the Judicial Office who has one notary and we have the Bureau of Accounting Services who performs financial affairs for the municipal court. Of course, the rationality that will show flexibility in which judges and officials will be able to slaughter and deploy cases as well as the introduction of days of judgment will lead to a situation that the citizen will not be left without judicial protection but will be more effective and faster. Of course, the consequences of long-term life are also large money that had to be paid from the title of protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, regardless of which they are now far less in 2014 than so far but amounts to 25 million or 36,5 or 27 million which were paid during 2011, 2012, 2012 and 2013 in support of the fact that the citizen must be satisfied with the speedy and effective as the laymen call it judicial justice so should be seen to save and money. What I mentioned in advance is the announcement of fate days is certainly good because it allows citizens to exercise their rights, but does not mean that all logistics must be in one place. So on the one hand, we circle, and on the other hand we reach the citizen and he comes to his protection of rights. What I certainly think is also good, and that is that we have set second-degree courts that will settle second-degree complaints in a certain type of dispute, which will certainly lead to narrow specialisation at such concentration, and thus to the quality of the trial. So I certainly welcome that of our 15 county courts for the second stage of the five county courts, for the family cases three and for the cases in the land-marked cases are also three. So I will support this final proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88033	The replica of the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88034	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Fabiancic, I'm glad you brought out some data for a simple reason not to make it look like Big Gorica got something because of political pressure. And it is good that here it has proved that different policy options can be agreed on when the arguments are at stake, and the arguments for the Court of Justice in Velika Gorica were exclusively these indicators that you were talking about. And today we talk about the fact that in one place, wages in the information era need to be accounted for when data from one end of the world go to another in a few thousand seconds is exactly the way to what we say all the time in this country that reforms should be carried out. For it is not the exercise of justice that is an administrator in a city, but a judge that judges and judges. And that's the whole point of the story. And no matter how political you are today, or not afraid to say it, but that's the point of everything we talk about when we need to talk about reforms. And I said that again, it would have been extremely hypocritical of the HDZ club that started banging to say that to the courts a few years ago, that today we're talking differently than some said before. But that's irrelevant. I think it is important for Croatian citizens to get what they pay for, and that is that disputes continue indefinitely. Well, we can also say today that this debt of this 50 billion and a large part of the consequences because many lawsuits to collect something took ten or more years. It's facts and truths that you don't need to run from. In fact, they should be told for reasons not to repeat themselves tomorrow. And we may not have talked too much today about these concrete facts, but I don't want Greater Gorica to turn out to be some kind of political agreement, but it's a matter of arguments and proof that the ministry can accept some other ideas, but that ultimately all political options are supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88035	Replication response, respected Vesna Fabiančić-Krisjanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88036	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shucker, I couldn't agree more with you. The municipal court in Velika Gorica remained because of all the arguments raised in the discussion between the first and second readings. The Grand Gorica municipal court, it's not about the court being a long tradition. He's a court with nine or ten judges, a court full of jurisdiction. So both criminal and labour and civil rights and now by extending jurisdiction to part of Zagreb County and I agree that the County Court in Velika Gorica will also be responsible for the Municipal Court in Novi Zagreb. Now we're going to smile a little bit, and we're going to say that Turopolje to Sava is safe with the number of judges and, of course, it has to be provided with material conditions, that it will be a high-quality second-degree court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88037	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88038	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Here is the debate over the County Court in Velika Gorica, they say is not a political solution, it is not agreed, and we all know it. But it's completely irrelevant actually, and I don't know what the spear is actually being broken about here. Even in the Zagreb area together with Zagreb County, given the number of inhabitants and therefore the development of the economic city of Zagreb and Zagreb County, we could also have 3 courts in the area. There's no need for us to break a spear around here who's responsible and who's not. Well, you're the most responsible person, actually, because you've reasonably accepted the suggestions that were in the debate here, and here's a legal proposal and you've brought it here. When we talk about the network of courts, it's two things that matter. One is Chapter 23 and the need to streamline the network of courts by reducing costs and increasing the efficiency of courts. And the second is the availability of courts to our people, to our citizens, so to all. Now that these two things are taken into account, then here's this latest proposal and we've had several since 2008 on municipal and county and commercial, administrative and all other courts and networks of these courts. And here's the latest proposal. And when we sum up all these changes that occurred during the former government, so also the Minister of Justice, the Ministry of Justice in the former government, and here you are, your Government, I've calculated somewhere that about 150 presidential functions, so the President of the Court of Justice is what the misdemeanors, which the municipal and others, are, therefore, left without that title of the President of the Court. I'm not quite clear that then the report by the Supreme Court President says there's no savings, there's nothing. But if we just take that part and the offices, so it's not the President of the Court I'm there, he's got a clerk of one, two, officers, etc., I'll follow up on the service so I don't know where there's no savings from, or we've spent more in some other place than we need in the judiciary. When I once answered in the replica here that it was precisely about that availability of the court. Well, it's a lot easier, if I have to say, to delegate the judge from, so the municipal or county court to a permanent service somewhere where there's a need, to go one judge or two. So, to dislocate rather than to make objects and parties travel to that place, spend etc. It's much cheaper and much simpler. For this reason, I think that, as my colleague Salapic said on behalf of the club and the HDSSB club, there is nothing against it, and mainly because you are here, I will not say too much to say that would turn it upside down, so listen to the voice from, with us from Slavonia in Slavonski Brod, where judges in Slavonski Brod and the President of the Court have made clear and loud arguments for this court in Slavonski Brod compared to some others and where it is actually to say reasonably resolved and done. What you can see from this material is that you did not look at belongings, so to administrative units of some municipalities or permanent services. So here I noticed that it has, for example, from the Split-Dalmatia County of Vrgorac, belongs to Dubrovnik, so the area of Dubrovnik Court. So then the Križevci from Koprivnica-križevci to Bjelovarska-Biogorska, Virovitica also, Pakrac and Lipik also belonged to Bjelovara. I believe and know when I looked at the map a little bit and measured distances in kilometers, which is very important to our people, although communication in Croatia, given these modern highways still not monetized and all other state roads are relatively good and when we know the fact that there are people and the world is working, to say from Chicago they travel to New York to work, I think. So, Croatia is really and spatially small compared to these global scales, although it has a slightly interesting shape, is it? That this calculation of kilometers, the distance of a particular court or habit, the tradition of the inhabitants according to the court is so determined that I don't really see much need for us to be here this long with this debate when I see that here all the clubs have spoken for and here we are today already trying to say 4, 5 hours without need, even though this material needs to be adopted as it is. I have nothing else to add. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88039	Thank you. We have another individual discussion. Dear Milan Jurkovic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Does the minister want it to be final? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88040	The following is the Final Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 667. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia after the deadline provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Article 199 is replaced by the following: I am voting the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please state who's in favour? The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most votes, 100 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 6 against votes, have adopted the proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm asking the government's representative to explain the amendments. Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88041	Thank you very much. I hope it'll be better luck than last time. Honored MPs and MPs The Government proposes an amendment in Article 14(1) of subparagraph 9 in a way that reads: "The permanent service in Slatina and the Virovitica Criminal Court continues to work as a permanent service of the Virovitica Criminal Court." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. [[Intruder Leko: Amendment number one.]] The final proposal of the Law on Areas and Courts of Justice lists the existing permanent services of misdemeanor courts that continue to work as permanent services of newly established criminal courts. Since on 15 September 2014, the conditions for the merger of permanent service in Orahovica and the permanent service in Pitomaca to the Virovitica Criminal Court were met, and the decisions of the Minister of Justice were made to merge permanent services in Orahovica and Pitomaca to the Virovitica Criminal Court were necessary to amend the text of the provisions of Article 14(2) of subparagraph 9. Final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88042	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, only representatives of the representatives' clubs can participate in the debate on the amendment. A representative of the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament reported on the debate. I am opening the debate and calling on the respected representative Djakic to come for a pay phone on behalf of the club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88043	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Deputy. Well, this amendment is actually a joke of the Croatian government that comes to the Croatian Parliament when it is discussed about the law and when we didn't meet on October 23rd today, the amendment is written in which something is changing. And in the very text of the law under Article 9 of Article 14 and paragraph 1 of the permanent service in Orahovica, Pitomaca and Slatina of the Criminal Court in Virovitica continues to work as a permanent service of the Criminal Court in Virovitica. That's a good text, that's what's been made possible and that's what's gone and it shouldn't have changed any of the government's amendments to the extreme. This absolutely meets the needs of citizens, rationalises the costs and all that is available to citizens of the criminal proceedings is possible. What a joke I can't say now on the legal side, but now that we've discussed the law, when we've defined where the permanent services are, when the minister has agreed with it, when you clearly wrote it, you now want the independent service to stay in Slatina and Pitomac and Orahovica when you've agreed with local self-government ways and possibilities to rationalise the costs, we'll challenge your space and in Virovitica in order not to create conditions for further functioning, so you'll have to look for a new space for the Criminal Court. That's what can be done to such a misunderstanding that has happened. This is totally misunderstanding, because giving someone under favourable conditions space for use, and then manipulating them like this really isn't the conditions they would approve of anyone. I'm talking to the Minister in the debate. He made it clear to me that you're staying the way it says in the law. The rest of you can pass it on to all those citizens who are as interested as court officials, as well as judges who will now travel over 75 km to Virovitic. This doesn't look like anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88044	Your Honor, I did not warn you or warn you when you called the proposal a joke. It's your right. I'm not contesting your assessment. But I'm warning you, you can't condition the government's going to work. That's why you have a warning from this table. Are there others reported for questioning? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I would like to make a statement on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. What's the score? I find that most of the votes, 79 votes in favour, four abstentions, and 32 votes against the amendment and we put it into the final text of the law. Amendment number two respected Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88045	Thank you very much. The Government proposes to delete Article 22. The final proposal of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts in Article 22 provides for the obligation of the State Judicial Council to decide within 60 days of the date of publication of this Act in the National Journal to relocate judges and decisions establishing the termination of the duties of the President of the Courts in accordance with Articles 60 and 85. The law on the State Judicial Council in order to ensure the conditions necessary for the start of the work of the courts established by this law. Since the date of entry into force of this law will be sufficient time to carry out all the activities of the State Judicial Council necessary to ensure the conditions for the start of the work of newly established courts, the provision of Article 22 shall be unnecessarily indicated.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88046	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on Amendment No. 2 Governments of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please state the amendment No. 2 Governments of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that, most, 83 votes in favour, 12 abstentions and 24 votes against, we have accepted Amendment No. 2 Governments of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final bill. Please Deputy Minister, Amendment No. 3 Governments of the Republic of Croatia, justification.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88047	Thank you very much. It is proposed to replace the words 1 April 2015 and to replace the words 1 April 2016. In its parliamentary debate on the final proposal of the Law on Areas and Seats of the Courts, it pointed out that the entry into force of the provisions of Article 4(4) of the final proposal of the Law is to be decided by 1 January 2016 in order to ensure that the provisions on jurisdiction of the county courts when they decide on appeals against decisions of municipal courts in civil cases take effect as soon as possible. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In order to ensure the conditions for the work of the county courts in accordance with this proposal, it is also necessary to fix the time of entry into force of the law with a date of 1 April 2015, instead of 1 February 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88048	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate on Amendment No. 3 Governments of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please state the amendment No. 3 Governments of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I say, most of the votes, 98 votes in favour, 13 abstentions and 8 votes against, we accepted Amendment No. 3 The Government of the Republic of Croatia has thus become an integral part of the final draft law. In addition to the amendment by the government of the Republic of Croatia, we have amendments from MP Josip Djakic. I would like to ask the proposing representative to take note of the amendment of the respected representative Josip Djakic. Amendment No. 1 Article 2(1)
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88049	The proposed amendment is not accepted. The proposed amendment by the Municipal Court in Virovitica would be set up as a permanent service of the County Court in Bjelovar, which is contrary to the principles of the establishment of a judicial authority according to which municipal courts are not permanent services of county courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88050	Thank you. Stay behind the pay phone, respected deputy minister. I ask the applicant of the amendment of the respected representative, Josip Djakic, to show himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88051	So what to say about this is also a misunderstanding which is intended to facilitate citizens' access and rationalise and reduce the travel costs of judges and employees and the purpose of the law is that it is one of the things and efficiency but also to rationalise that the courts that would benefit the citizens. So, the permanent service of the County Court of Bjelovar defined in Pitomacha i.e. in Virovitica would really benefit the citizens. There is space, there are officials, there are judges who now travel over 50 km to Bjelovar. When you sum up the costs of them and the employees, you see how much the cost of the work of the county court in Bjelovar is increased. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88052	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment No. 1 Honorable representative of Josip Djakic, whom the government does not accept. Thank you very much. The vote is over. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Let's go to Amendment No. Two respected representatives of Josip Djakic as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88053	The amendment concerns Article 7(1) and the proposed amendment is not accepted. The final draft law does not propose the establishment of permanent services of courts. In particular, permanent services are established by a decision of the Minister of Justice in accordance with the Law on Courts and the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of Courts. Therefore, this final proposal of the law only lists the existing permanent services which continue to work as permanent services of individual courts established by this law and courts continuing to work as permanent services of courts established by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88054	I ask the respected Josip Djakic to be shown about the explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88055	True, the minister has the opportunity to establish permanent services by his decision, but he could suggest that the minister, like you, do together in this law, that there is a permanent service of the Trade Court from Bjelovar, Virovitica. This would make it easier for entrepreneurs, craftsmen and all interested citizens who establish new companies to do so but also for those who have made it easier for them to be available in cases or in courts before commercial courts. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88056	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment No. The second respected representative of Josip Djakic, whom the government does not accept. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Let's go to Amendment No. Three respected representatives of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88057	Thank you very much. Amendment No 3 applies to Article 13, paragraph 2, but not to Article 11. The proposed amendment is not accepted. Finally, the bill proposes to establish permanent services for courts. Namely, permanent services are established by a decision of the Minister of Justice, as we have previously said, in accordance with the Law on Courts and the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts. Therefore, this final proposal merely lists existing permanent services that continue to work, as permanent services of individual courts established by this law and courts which now continue as permanent services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88058	Thank you very much. Please show the applicant for the amendment, the respected representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88059	Madam Deputy Minister, if you took a map of Virovitica-Podravska County and saw that the spread of space is over a hundred kilometers, if Orahovica were 78 kilometers from Virovitica, you would clearly come to know that the need for permanent service or official days that could be defined, this law would be truly satisfying to the citizens. What's sure now won't be enough and it won't be good. The permanent service in Slatina, Orahovica and Pitomachi is that it meets the needs or official days of the possibly municipal court in Virovitica would be a real benefit, so I ask you to consider with the minister the possibility and by the decision of the minister to establish either permanent service or judgment days in the future. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88060	Thank you very much. We would like to vote on amendment number three of the respected representative Josip Djakic, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We are going to the amendments of the respected representative Milan Jurkovic. Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88061	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The proposed amendment is not accepted as previously stated, the final proposal for a law does not propose the establishment of permanent services of courts. Namely, the permanent service shall be established by the minister's decision in accordance with those laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88062	I ask the applicant of the amendment, the respected representative Milan Jurkovic, to show himself. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88063	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, interestingly, I expected you to accept the amendment in view of the arguments. The area of the former Municipality court of Otocac covered the area of the town of Otocac, the Municipality of Vrhovina and the municipality of Brinja. 2.5% of the area of the Republic of Croatia, over 1,100 square kilometers, therefore more than 7 largest Croatian cities including Zagreb. The trip of judges and court employees from Otočac, Korenica to Gospić is over 150 thousand kuna per year. The municipal court building in Otočac was renovated just before the unwarranted closure. This in one significant part of the citizens of Lika-Senj County from the area of the town of Otočac, the Municipality of Vrhovina and the Municipality of Brinje is in some way making it impossible for the Constitutional provision to have the right to judicial protection and judicial proceedings. I believe, and I know that there has been thinking in the ministry, to accept the permanent service of the Municipal Court in Gospić, based in Otocic, that the minister will, in due course, introduce the permanent service of the Municipality of Gospić in the town of Otocic. I thank the ministry that since the 1st draft law has dropped out and left the Municipal Court in Gospić, and I do not blame you in the ministry for the fact that the permanent service will not be in Otoc, but rather the incompetent city authority of the SDP, Otokec, who did not present her problems in the right way. I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88064	Thank you very much. Please vote on the amendment of respected representative Milan Jurkovic, whom the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Please go to Amendment No. 1 of the Clubs of Representatives of the DC, New Wave and Independent Representatives of Martinchev, Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88065	Amendment No 1 requires that Article 2(2), point 12, paragraph 3 be amended. The Government does not accept the proposed amendment. The area of jurisdiction of the Municipal Court in Novi Zagreb is in line with the territorial structure of the city districts of Zagreb, and according to this structure are the city districts of Novi Zagreb west and Novi Zagreb east. Like the city district of Zagreb south of the Sava River. The town of Dugi Selo and Rugvica Municipality, according to the applicable law on areas and courts, fall within the jurisdiction of the Municipal Court in Sesvedi. And since the Municipal Court in Sesvetima continues to work as a permanent service of the Municipal-Citizen's Court in Zagreb, the areas of the town of Dug Selo and Rugvica fall within the jurisdiction of the Municipal-Citizen Court in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88066	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the esteemed representative of Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88067	Thank you very much. Madam Deputy, this presentation of yours is very visible to the extent of the chaos of this proposal, this legal proposal of yours has been made. So, you've completely needlessly joined the courts and then separated them so that the border is the Sava River, I think in this way you broke out of the pocket of taxpayers a large amount of money to establish this model that you're looking for, and instead of spending that money on the right reform moves, I think with this solution that you're proposing, unlike this one that's proposed in the amendment to our club proposal, where in some way you're correcting this proposal and a little bit more introducing order and, of course, you're expending this reform. Therefore, I demand a vote and I urge my colleagues to take this model seriously, which will be expensive, will cause chaos and great dissatisfaction of citizens and legal professions of course. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88068	Thank you very much. Please vote on Amendment number 1 of the Club of Representatives DC The new wave of independent MPs Martincevic, Baranovic. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment number two of the same club of MPs, the respected deputy minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88069	Thank you. The amendment proposes that Article 2(2) be amended as set out in paragraph 2. The government does not accept the proposed amendment because the area of jurisdiction of the municipal civil court is in line with the territorial structure of the city's districts of Zagreb. Given that the municipal civil court in Zagreb is currently the largest court in the Republic of Zagreb and that access to that court has the largest number of inhabitants of this final proposal, the area of jurisdiction of the Municipal Civil Court in Zagreb is divided into the territory of the city of Zagreb north of the Sava River which will belong to the jurisdiction of the Municipal Civil Court in Zagreb and the area of the city of Zagreb south of the Sava River, which belongs to the area of jurisdiction of the Municipal Court in Novi Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88070	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the respected representative of Vesna Škara Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88071	Our club suggested that the Municipal Civil Court in Zagreb remain one whole, and that the problem of burden be solved in another way, not by breaking that court into two parts in a way that the Sava River is a border because both parties and lawyers and judges will have to have a map of the city of Zagreb in order to find out which court they belong to. Please vote for the reasons that this solution proposed by the proposing or the ministry and the government will significantly collect judicial reform in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88072	Thank you very much. Please vote on Amendment No. 2 of the Clubs of Representatives DC Novi val and Independent Representatives Martincevic, Baranovic, whom the government has not accepted. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that he has not received the necessary majority of the amendments. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. for the adoption of this law, the majority of the votes of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament shall be required on the basis of Article 252. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes of 87 votes in favour, 13 abstentions and 14 votes against the vote have been passed by the law in the text as proposed by the proposing woman along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88073	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. - Final proposal of the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Attorneys, second reading, P.Z. No. 668; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Orsat Milenic, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88074	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. So this is actually a law that's a natural sequel to the one you've just discussed. All the things that apply to the courts are more valid for the State's Attorney's Office, which in itself is a hierarchical organization where we expect this collapse to actually give greater effects. However, with the State's attorney's office, I would point out one more thing, one look at the work of what they're doing is already saying that concentration, separation in some way from the local environment and circumnavigation can only give better results. And it's in Croatia but it's not just in Croatia, it's in every country in the world. It is necessary sometimes to move away so that you can do such a difficult job as persecuting or representing property interests sometimes and the opposite of what your local environment wants. And that's why this has another psychological additional element with everything I've been saying about courts. Let me do it again, we talked about the budget, so I'll just point out a few of the data from the same report I quoted before. So, the DA's number. Croatia 14.5, average Council of Europe 11.8. So we have them above average. I repeat, the criteria are not everywhere, in some countries civil departments are involved, some are not, but this is official data. The number of officers is also in those categories. Budgets, we're somewhere a little bit in the separation so we're somewhere slightly below the average of the Council of Europe and we need to give more, right on this side of the budget. The question arises why and what we have done to the defence court budget according to official duties and skills should be reduced and the budget that goes to the State's Attorney's Office should be increased. But now the question is, how is it even possible to have judicial investigations? They're gone, but how is it possible that they shouldn't have been here since 2008? And what exactly is your amount doing there unless trials are on official duty and why have they not been conducted so far? So the latest if she's been transferred now is five years. So that's one problem. Now it's all in the State's Attorney's Office, and we will certainly now have to take this into account in the new budget and redistribute this part that is now in the courts because of the functions that we have given to the state's attorneys because of the CAP in 2008. It means he's going most of it there. Here, I wouldn't go any further. It's the same criterion, 15 judicial areas, so 15 county state's attorney's offices remained as 22 municipal state's attorneys. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88075	Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Branko Vuksic on behalf of the club Slavko Linic, Branko Vuksic, Nedzad Hodzic. He's gone. He's losing his right to discuss this agenda item. In the name of the HNS Club, respected Vesna Saboliæ, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88076	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with a co-worker once more. The club of HNS representatives fully agrees with the Final Proposal of the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers. Everything previously stated on the final proposal or on behalf of the club, which I made on behalf of the HNS Club regarding the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts is equally valid for this final proposal. Since both legislative proposals are part of the Justice Reform Strategy, one of the main priorities of the reorganisation and rationalisation of the network of courts and state lawyers. Once again, this bill will increase the availability of state attorneys to citizens, as well as courts. Of course, by that we mean quality or efficiency. There's only one thing that's interesting is that through this wide public debate, no local self-government has filed a request or suggested that the state's attorney's office be established right in their backyard, that's interesting, right? Thank you very much, this is just an unfortunate remark.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88077	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88078	Thank you very much. Here, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary and Associates have listened to me, and they're in a very quick debate, they've speeded up the debate, and I believe we're going to end this quickly today. The final proposal of the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers which you have proposed is equally to say a more rational proposal than it was before and here we have 15 state attorneys that I do not now list them so that I do not spend precious time. The HDSSB Club is for this proposal that you have proposed and which is to say in Brod-Posavina County for Požega and Brod-Posavina County is a state attorney's office, this proposal is actually a rationalization that is useful. And I hope that in the next period, as counterpart Salapic said, we will not quote it, and given the administrative reshuffle that follows us and which so timidly announces from the government, from civil associations and all others soon, and possibly even more rational, an even better network of these courts. But what I would like to say is that the state's attorneys who are here at 15, so there are 15 of them in Croatia, I would like to see the number of cases in these attorneys less, if they were less busy, less engaged, if there were less crime and corruption it would be much better so that we could think about it in terms of rationalization and reduction of the number of state's attorneys. Unfortunately, even this government does not seem to succeed, and I do not know how Croatia will move further in that direction. Most of the HDSSB club will support this Final Proposal for a Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Lawyers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88079	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the respected Davorin Mlakar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88080	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I see we've begun to accelerate, and we'll speed up our exposure. The Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Attorneys shall be a collateral sacrifice of this previous Law on Areas and Courts. There's no reason when we're talking about the first law that we're particularly complaining about. It is only a pity that, in the light of this law, there are not the same findings about what this reorganisation will bring, because then they would find that criterion to even the practice of state attorneys as should be balanced by reducing the number of municipal courts and court practices. And it simply associates me with the fact that practice in the work of the County State Attorney's Office is far from uniform, and one of the dramatic cases we have had the opportunity to see in solving issues of a European arrest warrant, and behaviour, and the conduct of the County State Attorney's Office in Velika Gorica and the City of Zagreb. If the reorganisation is still an area, I would really ask, here I won't be long, if the reorganisation of the area and the courts' seats will have the same implications for both the areas and the seats of the state's attorneys' offices to even the practice in the work of the County State's attorneys' offices we will all welcome and support it, and since this law follows the legislation that we have previously discussed will support the HDZ Club and the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88081	Replica esteemed Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88082	Since the Latin rule is that something wrong needs to be corrected, allow me a colleague, I agree with you about inequality and practice and that this should be done, but the example you set is not adequate because this state's attorney has remained at his stand and the courts have been coming, we have noticed the difference in conduct in the courts. So the state's attorney's office had a unique position, in which you'd like to mention so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88083	The answer to Davorin's Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88084	Then, for the full information of counterpart Anticevic in one case, the state's attorney's office complained about the court's decision and the other did not. In this difference in conduct, these two County State Attorneys, in order to ultimately happen to your project, Mr Perkovic, is exactly what we have been saying from the beginning, and to be extradited to the application of the European arrest warrant, which the state's attorney's office should have noticed in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88085	On behalf of the SDP club, the respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88086	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. The SDP Club supports the adoption of the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of the State Lawyers, as we all know already that in such a way the entire judicial system is being coordinated, that we will have 15 county state attorneys and 22 municipal state attorneys. What I would certainly like to say, as well as the previous Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, as well as this Proposal for Law on Areas and Seats of State Lawyers, something that we need greatly in communication with the professional public, and even more so with the general public, what the ministry has done, the personal minister with his associates. It was a good communication that people had at least experienced something in the beginning, but in the beginning they created resistance not to, here and today we had, but fortunately one extraordinary, only isolated opinion that we shouldn't, that there was no village or city at all, if there was no school, if there was no mail, if there was no court. That it doesn't have that kind of attribute anymore. So a good communication has been achieved in the sense that it explains what is being achieved. We've had, since 2008, we've been reducing the network, or reducing the number of courts and state's attorneys, but I'd say it's often so far or at least it seems to be doing it linearly. We had a whole display here, we were shown by committees, it was also shown to the judicial authorities, which, therefore, did not just save, that something was abolished, but that was a direct benefit to the citizens. How much will they save, which the minister often mentions, only on interest, how much the acceleration of all kinds of procedures means primarily for the citizens, but also for the state. That taxpayers' funds are spent where it's much more important and where they don't have to waste money. Please, recently, one English speaks, we don't have that kind of resources, we have to simplify our system, we don't have the means to spend that much money on our judiciary. So all countries watch how to make this system simpler, cheaper for both the state and the parties. We have often had different periods in our history and even in recent history, that this is thought to be a success even before, while Croatia was part of the former state of Yugoslavia, it is believed that if a municipal state attorney or court is established, it is a victory for that environment. I myself witnessed the great celebration of the local community and the whole of the judicial authorities as a whole, that this way the judicial authority will be closer to the citizens. And what I'm asking you is a citizen has something to do with his neighbor living near the court, across the street from the court. I know personally, in Zadar, a woman who has one dispute that lasts for decades and stands in that square across the street from the court. Well, she'd rather have her court in Dubrovnik and got rid of her not only for six months, but for six years, but for how many years she's been waiting. So, I'm glad today, too, that only we had one that didn't come from this profession and thinks that in such a way he was raising his local community, but he was a really lonely speaker, all from different political options and on behalf of the club and individually, of course they expressed some of their doubts, but no one has any doubt that this network of ours is too vast, too complicated, and that Croatia as a small country can't simply spend so much money, that it's not effects. If only we had the effects of getting rid of the backlogs, the judges and the state's attorneys were equally deployed. So that's the fact that one judge or one state attorney has 15 cases, and the other one has 38 or 40, says that there has already been an imbalance and injustice against the one who needs to share justice. And we are the ones who create conditions and, above all, those conditions must be just and just. So, the very fact of the abolition is not questionable. What will be achieved and what we want to say on behalf of the SDP Club is particularly highlighted, and that is what many colleagues have said and here, my predecessor who spoke here, to speed up procedures and to create conditions for the creation of legal certainty for citizens, above all when it comes to criminal trials, or criminal persecution. Unfortunately, we still have to find that this criminal policy is quite different in different parts of our beautiful. A fellow Mlakar presented an inadequate example, but the fact that two state-owned small lawyers should not be far away, that they act differently, let alone when they are far away. But the example that Mlakar spoke, and now he's saying that, it's an unequal practice because the state's attorney's office in the same case, in one case, complained, did not complain, and, please, when you saw it and what was the legal interest of the party that succeeded in the first degree to complain? You see how he manipulates himself sometimes with facts. Any time the party succeeded, the defendant if he was released, surely he won't complain about it, there isn't... And so the state's attorney's office, if it's achieved what it asked for, then if it worked, of course it won't complain. They'll complain where it didn't work. But it's an alphabet and an attempt at a little digression and some petty manipulation that doesn't even matter in this debate. So what the minister also pointed out is that given the structure of the state's attorneys who in some way got their own independence, especially the deputies, but still it's a more or less... structured organization, so where simply the small environments that have been connected and for many years where the same judicial officials work, it simply creates an impression of citizens not being treated as they should be. Now he removes himself in this way and such an objection. Indeed, the conditions of one greater legal certainty but also one single criminal policy were created, so that the citizen knows. But we still have a case today, and it should be said openly that something is a crime in one part of Croatia in the other part of Croatia is not being persecuted or perhaps it has not yet come to order, I don't know, but it will probably be this bill that will speed up the procedures and create one citizen's trust so much needed by our judicial system because it is a vicious circle. Neither the judiciary can function without citizens' trust and the situation is reversed and citizens must and should have confidence in the system. And in order to have that trust, such decisions should be swift, transparent, and necessary in similar situations. So such a system must be in some way... that the party in the process knows about what is waiting, not that it is completely all uncertain. Here I think that many of the suspenses that have followed and this segment of our judiciary are going to contribute to the improvement, and above all to the satisfaction of the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88087	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88088	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague, you've described how absolutely in support of this rationalization of the network, but I will remind you, however, how you forgot about your performance in 2011, you forgot the press conference when you insisted and sought and announced and wrote a constitutional suit against nationalisation of courts. You forgot that you were then looking for institutional decentralisation, not centralization, you forgot that you and your colleague Ronk in Požega made a press conference, and this demagogue performance today really doesn't lead to anything. Yes, municipalities and cities are really without institutions desolation and legal and logical and real, if there are no courts, if there are no lawyers, if there are no schools, if there are no doctors and veterinarians then they really start to be the subject of emigration, migration and neglect. There's no recovery of rural space if there's no institutions. We have supported with all of our remarks that are quality and adequate in favour of rationalization and help... to citizens and we suggest that everything that can be installed be installed with the help of regional and local self-government i.e. to give space free of charge to the use of the judicial authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88089	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88090	I talked about it publicly, not only was I talking, but I was just the person who founded 15 state's attorney's offices and courts. In the 1990s, you founded a feather movement under almost every tree of the court and the state's attorney's office, appointed the presidents of the courts you paid for, and they had nowhere to work. Because of the great backlog and 50% of the personnel you've chased down, the first task was to secure the funds and establish what you've set up. You started a feather move, but they didn't work, they didn't have a place or this. But today after the highways after so much time, they have received some successes in their period and solved much of the lags. But today in a crisis like this, and when we have this transparent, so it's not just about abolishing a dear colleague, it's about what it's for, but you still think that under the bar where you drink coffee or something else has to be the state's attorney's office and court right now. It might have to be for some, but I deeply believe it shouldn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88091	Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88092	My dear colleagues, you were talking about bringing the courts together, so I'd just like to ask you what the point is. I agree with you that there should be no law or court under each tree, but if there is a Court of Justice in Požega for over 200 years, if we have a state, municipal, if we have a county court, and we know that during HDZ, I say so publicly, the former minister made an unfair decision when the county court moved to Brod, and you now wanted to do the same with the municipal court of the Minister as well. I thank you for understanding that you have experienced an epiphany and have realized that the municipal court in Požega must remain. So I'm asking you what's the point of the merger? Ministers can laugh and I will ask you and I will ask you in writing to answer how much money you saved by joining the Court of County in Požega or Brod, if you have in Požega prison systems of women, men, minors and take them to the Ship. And then the judge says there, you know, today the hearing is canceled. So who's going to bear all the expenses that we're doing right now? Second, the merger of hospitals, here's Požega Hospital with a papara-lipic 30 million kuna was a dubiosis, now it's 50. So give me an explanation of what the goal is to connect hospitals? Not that the situation is better than 10 times worse, it's in the judiciary, it's in health care. And what kind of politics are we running? Economic? So I'd just like you to tell me what the financial effects are, and they're minus fat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88093	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88094	Well, I'll answer you though obviously you're speaking to the minister. You're talking about institutions and we've often been really long, we couldn't get out of it we have really old judicial bodies, not just judicial bodies really 100, 200 years old they're part of our not only legal history they're part of our culture. And in that I've been sentimental for a long time, and that's, but you just can't think like that anymore today. You can't think like that because you need to know that judges sitting in one particular state's attorney's office are either three or four times less burdened with the same pay than other judges or state's attorney's office. Just the one, not the general, I'm not telling you in general. This is about the cases you're talking about. The same thing you've been throwing away I don't know if you are, but here's the opportunity for me to respond to a constitutional assessment that we call a constitutional suit, because the courts, the state's attorneys, have abolished, so not without such a broad debate, but without the necessary qualified majority. And the Constitutional Court has abolished it, because the formation of the state government and which also includes the judicial authority, so also the structure when it comes to abolishing or establishing must be passed. So such decisions, such laws must be passed by a qualified majority that you did not have.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88095	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88096	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you said at one point that when such institutions were opening up that the citizens were gathering, that they were clapping, that they were celebrating. So do you really think that at the end of the day, the citizens will gather again to clap? I will invite you to come to me, to be that person as a representative in the Parliament who will go out to the public and clap along with them and rejoice that after 139 years some institution in one city is abolished. So it's not about being under every bar or court or law firm. The point is to make it as accessible to the citizens as possible, as close to them as possible. And it's interesting when we're hearing debates today that basically most of the colleagues and colleagues in the cities who don't lose anything statusally, of course stand up for this. And that those who lose, of course, stand up for another thing. But the fact is that people have shown that they need it, that they need it, that they need it, that they need it, that they need it and that they clap like they are now citizens, as they are now very unhappy. And that's a fact. So you're canceling something ok. But don't expect a round of applause.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88097	Replication response, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88098	You don't need a round of applause. I think that some requirements like, procedures like this don't produce immediate effects, they're a little longer and often not popular. And I think that's exactly what this minister in the government is showing, so he wasn't forced to do it. However, he should do so and he knows that at first he will meet resistances like this even though not when you can generally say that there was so much resistance. But maybe in the smaller environments, they're still thinking the same way you do. And I'm not surprised at that. But I would answer you very precisely to your answer. Ask a citizen, a fellow citizen, a fellow citizen, a acquaintance or acquaintance in a court or a state attorney's office whose case stands for years, and perhaps 30 or 50 meters away from the house of such a person would you like to keep it that way and uncertain when his case will be resolved or pulled 50 or 60 km away and his case solved within a year.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88099	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill most likely Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88100	Final proposal of the Law on Areas and Seats of the State Courts, second reading, P.Z. No. 668. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia after the deadline set for the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am giving the Rules of Procedure the motion to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote. Who's in? The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the 97 votes are in favour of, 9 abstentions, 8 against the government's accepted proposal to discuss and decide on its amendment. I ask the representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to explain Amendment 1 to the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88101	Thank you. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its This article sets a deadline of 60 days for the conduct of the State Attorney's Council in the sense of decisions determining the termination of the duties of state attorneys and the decision to relocate deputy state attorneys pursuant to Article 99 and Article 156a of the Law on the State's Attorney's Office in order to ensure the conditions necessary for the start of work of newly established State attorneys. In view of the fact that until the date of entry into force of this law, there will be sufficient time to carry out all the activities of the State Attorney's Council, the provision of this article shall be unnecessarily indicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88102	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. I am opening a debate on Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Representatives of the clubs in the Croatian Parliament can participate in the debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes of 85 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 23 against the adoption of Amendment 1 to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and thus became an integral part of the final draft of the law. Please explain Amendment No. 2 to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the respected Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88103	Thank you very much. We propose to amend Article 14 of the words 1 February 2015 is replaced by the words 1 April 2015. Namely, since the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed an amendment to Article 24. The final proposal of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, which lays down the date of 1 April 2015, in order to comply with the entry into force of this Act and the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, proposes that the Law on Areas and Seats of State Laws enter into force on 1 April 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88104	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate on Amendment No. 2 Governments of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please state the amendment No. 2 Governments of the Republic of Croatia. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 84 votes in favour, 9 abstentions and 20 against Amendment No. 2 The Government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final proposal of the Law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law, and I stress, that the adoption of this Law requires most votes from all MPs of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of Article 252. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Please vote. Who's in? The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the 99 votes in favour of, 14 abstentions, the Law on Areas, is based on the text proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88105	We move to - Proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system concerning requests for a national referendum on the adoption of the Law on the implementation of accompanying and non-basic activities in the public sector, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System proposed to the Croatian Parliament to reach the following conclusion: The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are called upon by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to verify the number and credibility of the signature of voters and requests to call a referendum on the adoption of the Law on the implementation of accompanying and non-basic activities in the public sector, which has been submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Organisational Committee for the Declaration of Voters on the need to request the publication of a referendum under the number of acts, that I do not read everything from 16 July 2014. On behalf of the Proposer, Chairman of the Committee of Peja Grbin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88106	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament held at the 70th session held on 15 September 2014 discussed the request for a call for a national referendum on the adoption of the Law on the implementation of accompanying and non-basic activities in the public sector, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Organisational Committee for the Declaration of the Voter on the need to request the opening of a referendum by act of 16 July 2014. The Committee has discussed the request in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which stipulates that, in the procedure of calling the referendum, if requested by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the number of voters, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system shall prepare proposals for appropriate acts. In the framework of its competence, it is established by that provision of the Rules of Procedure that the Committee is obliged to establish the fulfilment of the assumptions set out in Article 87(1) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Since the current law governing the matter of referendums in the Republic of Croatia is not prescribed for who to carry out the number and credibility of voters' signatures, and given the current parliamentary practice, such verification is done by the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the Ministry of Administration or other bodies, the Committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to conclude that it was read in the introduction by the Vice-President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88107	I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88108	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In front of the Committee on the Constitution, the president of the Committee explained the procedure. We would like to put a few words on this subject behind the pay phone. First, the practice so far applied by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in verifying the signing of the Conference Initiative does not seem right to us, nor can it speak of the authenticity of the signature. On several occasions, the government has checked the signatures of referendum initiatives based on a representative sample of several thousand and tens of thousands of signatures. And that, according to our knowledge, was done by the State Statistics Office. If this information is correct, then we hold that it is not a process that can answer the question whether persons in the signatures of a particular voter initiative within the meaning of our current legislation because only the Ministry of Administration from its full list of voters can determine who the voters are in the Republic of Croatia and who they are, of course, voters who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, other than the Ministry of Administration, which should verify all signatures, rather than based on some representative sample, given the possibility of errors not to say anything else, should, in the event of doubt, and at least on a representative sample, carry out the art of these signatures, not graphic skills that would take a terrible amount of time and resources, but rather the skills of signatures to determine whether these signatures are credible. But this is another initiative to call a referendum that seems to me to be rulingly unprepared. In fact, in tens of millions of kunas, this government demonstrated its function with a clean start. After a clean start of ten million kunas, it started by introducing revolving doorways to the state administration in the system of state administration and in official relations. After that, we started outsorcing to hear after that that we would be dealing with spin off, and finally in the house by performing certain activities. I must admit that these terms that must have confused me in the spirit of Croatian. I'm not old enough, and I believe I speak for one part of the voter that others understand what it's about. I'll remind you not so long ago we've also passed a fiscalization law for which the motionor could never explain what this term meant specifically. After the fiscalization, we have a monetization that we're not sure whether or not we're going to spend it, and similar looks like fate with an outsorcing. It may be necessary, regardless of the valid decision of the Constitutional Committee, to check the signatures on the referendum initiative to reduce this babble in the existing regulations, to determine whether we should do so, whether we should do so, because the government has, on several occasions, already stated through its officials that it may give up on the outside and on the spin off that it will eventually advocate the in-house method of doing these jobs. All three terms are quite hazy in terms of the fact of what is being said, of the jobs being done and of the possible savings or costs that would arise in one way or another, as well as the application of these phenomenal methods we have heard. Each of these activities, I'm afraid, is related to extra costs. And instead of dealing with the essential issues that 12 quarters in a row of economic downturns, recessions, depressions or whatever you want to call the situation we're in, let's focus all our strengths on getting out of this deep crisis we're currently in the house in spin off to do auxiliary and technical work in the state administration and in public authorities. We just have to ask, we have to act on this as the Chairman of the Constitution Committee has spoken, I ask myself and you what we need and where this is going, and whether the Government and we here are dealing with having the strength to deal with serious problems, to work on regulations that can bring this country a better perspective than ever and instead of all the revolving doorrs, spin offs or kick offs, clean start to take a serious job to finally change the negative trends in society. Since this is a technical issue, that the signatures must be checked, that it will engage occasionally certain human potentials, additional resources, given that such legislation is our own, we have no other way but to support the Committee's proposal to sign the checks. The only question is whether it all makes sense if the government has already given up its announced measures which, if I followed well after all the dates, are not yet only tennis in place, so after all the terms that we stayed on the model in the house, and if I understand correctly, it is just doing things like boredom. We suggest to the Government not to set up new public enterprises for in-house doing business but to take serious problems and to keep what is working at the current level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88109	It's a pedestal of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88110	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I kind of agree with your exposure, which is the part where you say the check job has to be done. So far, in these several recent cases, this work has been done by the Ministry of Administration with the help of other state bodies. I don't see what's controversial, except that in the way it seems now, a sufficient level of security to check the number of signatures at far less cost than it was in 2010, I think it's commendable but so much about the technique. Most of your exposure wasn't about the proposal for a conclusion. It was about the issue of outsorcing. And you've talked a lot about how you don't know what outsorcing means. So I would remind you that in April 2010, not you, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted one document in April 2010, and this was an economic recovery programme. The document covered a whole series of measures. In April 2010, you had been Minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia for 10 months and since I know that this programme was adopted unanimously, I assume you voted for it. The program included an Outsorcing measure on its 15-page page. So please, since I see you want to answer me if you didn't know then what you knew about exorcising but you voted for it anyway or did you forget the meaning of that idea? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88111	Davorin Mlakar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88112	Dear colleague Grbin, as you remind me of past times, then I will remind you of something far more important for today's political situation. In addition to the economic recovery plan adopted for earlier governments, you have made the elections seem to me to have been called Plan 21, which has not talked about changes to the Constitution, which has not talked about the failure of international commitments made by the Republic of Croatia by entering full EU membership, and has not talked about even outsourcing, spin off, clean start or you want to list further revolving Doors as methods that neither those who speak about it are clear what it means. I stand for it if you already want to turn out so learned to call all English terms, then explain to those of whom you are asking for an explanation what it is and what it is you want to achieve, because it is not clear to anyone. And more importantly, it is statistically possible to detect errors, to establish the quality of an analysis based on a representative sample. However, in order to determine whether a single signature on any document is falsified or not, whether it corresponds to the name and data of the person standing by that signature, I am convinced that you must verify each individual signature and not do so by the method of samples, attempts and errors as you do. And it can't be done by a body called the State Statistics Office, but must be done by the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Administration. You may have time to practice it in the next term.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88113	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88114	Thank you very much. A fellow Mlakar, so it is easy for the Croatian Parliament to discuss and to determine whether the signatures are like this or are like that and interpret English terms, but I think it is a far bigger problem that this is the second slap Croatia has hit on the European Community. Because if I am not mistaken, or what is already called is listed as one of the key measures to reduce the deficits of the state, excessive deficit and how it was sent to the European Commission. And what our budget looks like and looks like measures is the best statement from the Minister of Education a few days ago that teachers won't get paid at 12 months. So it's not a problem in the outsourcing, it's not a problem in the signatures of Croatian voters, it's a problem that someone thought they were going to cheat on someone, and it's going to sting billions in that way. Someone forgot that this is about living people and that you can't play spin off, or one way or another, or we can use some other tennis expressions now, but simply with living people you have to act human. And because these people were not treated humanly, there was a signing of a referendum request.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88115	The answer to the replica? No, I don't. Clear Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88116	Dear colleague Mlakar, I saw that very well baratate expressions clean start, spin off, revolving door, drop off, kick off and so on. Some of it you've been able to translate, quite accurate. Although I must tell you that this interesting measure of revolving the door has experienced another version, here's a concrete example. Let's say in one of our culture-related ministries, a media consultant is employed, he announces in the newspaper a media policy, the minister gives him a press release and then hires him as head of the media department that no longer subject to the rule, as you call this a revolving door, which means that he remains permanently employed as head of the media department. So if you're wrong, you have that variant, means a double revolving door. If you can't keep him as an advisor through the revolving door, then make up a new department, set up a post as chief and put him in charge and then no one can change him overnight because he's the chief, he's not subject to the whole of that state procedure as well as any state official. So you missed that, too, and you especially pointed out that as an extremely successful one that has found its application in some of our ministries.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88117	Davorin Mlakar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88118	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I have to correct my colleague Mesic because this principle that you have now called a double revolving door is not the correct name. It is called... revolving door and this principle is used right now by the president of the Republic of Croatia with his main analyst and special adviser who managed to tolerate and listen to his analysis of 4.5 years of mandate. However, after everything that happened with this voiced advisor, he eventually decided in this... revolving procedure to get rid of this counselor, we expect only to be informed soon where he is being managed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88119	On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives' Club, Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88120	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, indeed, I would say very impressively this debate on such an important subject as the report on the request for a national referendum on the adoption of law on the implementation of accompanying and non-essential or established activities in the public sector. And then we hear here, here's a different interpretation, instead of making a single conclusion that we would actually conclude, hitchhike, as Highash Doncic would say, they would hitchhike. How? Well, here's the thing. The Organisational Committee for Voter Statement on the need to request a referendum call, with which the Government should discuss that by giving up the outsourcing and then the referendum on outsourcing is unambiguous. Why are we going to count votes to hire the State Statistics Institute or I don't know, the Ministry of Administration, to verify the credibility of the number of signatures? We'll... what's the name of the young man, call? And with all this that has already been said here, indeed, our political scene mainly during this government, the Kukuriku coalition is crawling with Englishisms and I don't know what, from, I don't know, revolving, doors, double..., spin off, in house, factoring, I don't know what everything isn't. Well citizens are not all English close, English, and some are not even excused, so it's very difficult, because as a colleague Mlakar said, revolving or double revolving, I don't know how it would actually go,... revolving, it's... revolving. Two... So, as far as outsourcing is concerned, everything was said in the debate when, before it was moving to collect signatures for the initiative, against outsourcing, it wasn't good. The citizens made it clear as far as I know in the great, great majority, and that Bauk censorship of 4 hundred 62 thousand 580, he even calculated, 583 signatures when he summed up the diaspora, counting the votes in the diaspora. And why is it going outsourcing in the first place? And she kept on, and she saw the frog slip and wished for it herself. The frog saw that in banks they introduced outsourcing precisely for these activities in banks, I speak to commercial banks, in accompanying and non-basic activities, so also catering that could be a coffee shop in the bank, etc., cleaning and everything else and here she wished she had in her house outsourcing. And ask the banks and ask, let me tell the bank manager how much before they cost employees who worked in banks, and how much now that outsourcing bank costs, so you'll see, so you'll listen, but no, there's no hearing. You don't listen to anyone. Far more expensive is the current outsourcing that the mothers of the banks introduced, so abroad, because they don't have it there, but they give jobs to a company that makes a good living on it. And the workers, the employees will be subject to the new Labour Act, and we know how it goes with payouts and all the rest. And now, instead of having a peaceful conversation with the organisational board of this initiative, we here have a debate in the Chamber on the conclusion that we're going to hand over to the Ministry of Administration or the State Statistics Office to count and check votes, to deal with two or three months, and as it's usually quick for the State Statistics Office to hold a census in 2011 so this year we have a report after 3 years, so this will go very quickly and they will quickly count to some 600, 700 thousand credible signatures. Not falsified as Mlakar says, he has withdrawn it from Yugoslavia, counterfeited, Croatian expression is forged, not falsified. Here, thank me very much, Mr. Mlakar. So, what's completely certain is that there won't be an outsourcing either, there won't be a spin off, there'll be some... who went to Slovenia, there won't be a house, and because I don't see that we're here in the Croatian Parliament, so here's to say the government that could intervene, as it was, when 700 was collected in 2010, more than 700 thousand signatures against the change of the Labour Act, that's what those of HDZ remember very well, I think, right? And when it was decided not to amend the Labour Act, there was no need for a referendum and the referendum was not even implemented. Only now has the Labour Act changed. And now that we're talking and here we're talking about some things, Mr. Grbin, about the referendum, you're a little bit of a subject here, how come you didn't when it was a referendum to join the EU, you didn't set any conditions. Three people could go to a referendum to join the EU, two being for, one against going Croatia to the EU. At the time, no one here asked any questions about the implementation of a referendum on the way or the number of people who had to go to the referendum. That wasn't even a word of it, no. Now that we've given up, here's what we've given up on the master plan. A new minister has arrived, and there's no master plan anymore, and we could have said the master plan, so that's no problem at all. So why master plan, which is why master plan when it has a master plan in terms of development and organization of our health institutions, so hospitals first of all. The main plan, that's how the master's plan sounds nice Croatian. About the monetization of Croatian highways, so they translated these nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88121	May I ask your colleague to return to the subject?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88122	The referendum is the topic we're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88123	It's not a referendum. It's a theme.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88124	The conclusion of the Croatian Parliament on referendum, so this is it. So now we have a stop selling Croatian highways, it's called monetization, the minister says it's a concession that's been capitalized since once, and then it's called monetization. I was listening on the radio this morning to explain what a monetization is, and we don't know what a monetization is. Mostly I don't know what to say about this board conclusion. I see it was on board eight for and one abstention. I will stay until the government really says its own and can talk nicely but it seems the problem is to talk to the Croatian people and the Croatian citizens, much bigger than it is to transfer it to the Parliament, so let's go now, first to the Ministry of Administration and then ask the question to the Constitutional Court is the issue constitutionally, etc. stretch. For what? An effective, efficient, active government can solve this without us here to have a will, but there's no obvious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88125	Peja Grbin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88126	Thank you. We take the order of our colleague Grubisic, the car is a foreigner, so you don't mind that instead of the car in the words of the highway, we use the words of the vehicle. Then be consistent and ask to change the word of the highway. Furthermore, on the referendum on EU accession, we voted twice in the two-thirds majority in the Croatian Parliament, so we have made sure that this is something we can or can't decide on a referendum. And in conclusion, this is not a referendum on outsourcing. In the referendum question you will not find the word outsourcing, you will find a proposal for the adoption of a law prohibiting the separation of accompanying and non-basic activities. You will notice that trade unions propose the adoption of laws that would prohibit any accompanying activity in the public sector being carried out by persons who are not employed in the public sector. You will notice that this is a referendum on a bill that would practically end the market economy in the Republic of Croatia. We have to discuss such a bill because of Article 87 paragraph 1 and 3 when at least 10% of voters ask us to discuss it in the Croatian Parliament. The procedure requires that we verify the number of signatures that, after that, if we consider that the question is not allowed, we go to the Constitutional Court. Democracy is a colleague of Grubisic's in the process. And lastly, you know why this isn't a referendum on outsourcing, but a law like this? Because of Article 87 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The constitution, which should be read from time to time, prohibits the calling of a referendum on what is in the government's domain and allows only what is in the House's domain. And I'm outsourcing the domain of government work and that's why unions go with one of these broad issues, not just outsourcing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88127	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88128	My fellow coat of arms, you see how the constituency committee of voters so those who carried out the initiative and collected the signatures were very nice to translate what it was outsourcing and you said so. Therefore, this is the call for a referendum on the need for the adoption of law on the implementation of accompanying and non-basic activities in the public sector. It's quite well said. Your government translated it and announced it as outsourcing. They knew what it was and what it was about, so they said it nicely in Croatian. And as for the highway, I think you'd rather use the highway which would be more appropriate to your policy, so then you can write and the highway I'll hopefully understand that it's a highway.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88129	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88130	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, I will not throw myself away in foreign words, is this still a serious question and I will first say what I said long ago, that no government in the Republic has been able to earn as many referendums as this one in its term of office. Now we're already in the rhythm that every week we have a referendum one and it goes. People sign because they realize that this is clearly a way to defend them or a way to counter certain decisions that the government is going to implement. So they wanted to impress them with those foreign words and those people, the little people, 25 thousand of them doing the work they live on and for whom they live. But they underestimated them. People realized what was coming for them, and they organized themselves very well. And it's not easy to collect the 612 thousand signatures they've collected in 14 days and brought here to the Parliament and to congratulate them on that. Now we need to see where we're going. Are we going to go after a lot of announcements about what's going to happen, and then giving up everything is about formal things because maybe there's still a threat of something being spent over the next year, so that this question is put to an end, or we really need to say we know ok, you've collected, we're giving up and there's no need to talk about it anymore, or we're going to push it any further. Because here comes the next referendum and the question is what we're going to say at this point, because the government continues to insist on monetization even though it is visible that citizens will collect enough signatures for that referendum as well. I couldn't find in that story of theirs that they wanted to place the way someone was going to run a company of 25,000 employees. How it's going to work, I believe they didn't know it either, but it's still a number of attempts. That was one failed attempt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88131	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88132	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, he was, for the book we had when I was a high school student named William Tekerik: "Vashar vanity" was what was called. And in that fair of vanity of this government Okay, you can do whatever you want. [[Intruder Zgrebec: I guess fair.]] I read the fair, so she wrote the book. I can't change the quote, that's what the book said. Whose edition it was, I have no idea. So maybe even someone new-sad, Belgrade, etc. So, in this vanity, in its vanity expressed immeasurably by this government and their and their ministers, it is simply impossible to implement what I have suggested. To save 47, 50 million kunas, to save, not to go to the referendum, and so it already feels and smells the lossful mentality of this government, and I think it's smarter to do what I suggested, here's what Mr. Boric agrees with me, but to go to count and establish the number of votes, credibility of the signatures, etc., stalling, grumbling, and eventually, again in the rush of this people's torment that he is experiencing, and that on that referendum issue. Well, I don't know, I heard the other day that they agreed to a preferential vote. I said someone's finally come to their senses, so let's get to the point here because this is costing, the referendum costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88133	On behalf of HNS representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88134	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would like to say that the Croatian People's Party club – Liberal Democrats will support the proposal for a conclusion as formulated by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and we will not join this banalisation of this issue because this is not a question that should be served as a cream for linguistic wisdom. This is one of the very important issues in its very core, at least for us liberals. This is the question of how freedom is interpreted, to us the most important value from which it is then carried out among other things and freedom of entrepreneurship and freedom of the market. This is a question of demonopolization of the area in which the state is seriously disrupting market relations. Many both left and right and socialist and conservative parties have long accepted the values of liberal democracy as their own. And when the reform and discussion on the rationalisation of the public sector mentions concrete ideas, then actually these concrete ideas are used for ideological recommendations, and in fact for petty politics in which there is no question of how to reform the public sector, how to rationalise it and make it more efficient, but actually raise questions that have no place in this debate, about the fates of a small man as if a small man, so on. Doesn't work at a private company, like that so-called. A small man does not live from his work even when his employer is private. There's no difference for us. Everyone who lives from his work deserved the dignity and right to live on it, both he and his family. But if the common conclusion of both left and right and centrist parties is not only in Croatia, but throughout Europe, that one way to contain or reduce the consequences of the crisis, structural reform of the public system, public administration reform, public service reform, is to become more efficient, closer to citizens, give better, cheaper, faster service, then we should not forget it. If we agree on this, then attempts to make quality moves in this direction should be subject to consensus, not political overplay. The idea that people from the public sector are fired is not acceptable to anyone, but the idea of rationalising the public sector, that it is more effective especially for those in whom people do not remain jobless, but rather put themselves under other circumstances, in market circumstances in which they do not now act should not be ridiculed. In that sense, as far as the HNS is concerned, our position is clear. All that can be done under the same conditions under which it works and the private sector should be demonopolised and removed by the state, thus allowing the competition to be truly free and in that sense to allow equal conditions for all those living from their work. If we talk on Monday about the need to rationalise the public sector and on Tuesday, we demagoguely support a union initiative that takes note around the corner doing the same thing, so outsources a part of our needs, showing our hypocrisy, what are we in politics then? Are we credible? We didn't. What is the basic task of public service must remain controlled must remain managed by the public sector. But what is not and where we have already proved as in the case of KBC Zagreb, for example, that it can be done very successfully under other conditions of income, so as far as we are concerned, there is no doubt. In this context, the HNS announces support for the conclusion that the procedure is followed, that the collected signatures are verified and that the constitutionality of this issue is checked. As far as we're concerned, it's quite clear, or we're the view that this question is not allowed by a referendum. And I want to say one more thing in the end, this referendum of modernism, and I want to tell it to all those who are so warmly rooting for the referendum sport, it will have no other effect but demeaning and hating one of the most important institutions of direct democracy. After 4 or 5 attempts to hold a referendum, because it is also necessary to make a distinction, to collect signatures for a referendum launch initiative is not a referendum and must not be asked to do so. It's a legitimate civic action but it doesn't always have to bear fruit, it doesn't always have to bear support from a sufficient number of voters. But this inflation initiative to go to the referendum will hate the referendum as an extremely important institute of direct democracy and tomorrow, when it is really on the agenda, some important issue will come back to the problem because people will be indisposed to this kind of statement. All those who contaminating this institute today for daily political reasons or for reasons to show their teeth or muscles to this government will be held accountable because they were actually involved. This situation requires much more seriousness and much more far-sightedness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88135	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88136	Thank you very much. My colleague, Beus Richembergh, you said and said a phrase, a referendum of modernism. So where did the referendum sub-communication begin? Who invented it? Just not to say that your president and others here who are for the purposes of Croatia's entry into the EU have not defined anything to say the limits, let's say the number of necessary voters who have to come to a referendum on such an important issue as Croatia's entry into the EU. That's why she's taking a hearty stand, your president. Secondly, even now we have a statement that someone is conducting a referendum so that he would enter with some 3% of the elections success in the Croatian Parliament as if someone else did not want to enter the Croatian Parliament, only those who push the referendum they want to enter the Croatian Parliament and those who already did not want to do so, so they were accidentally elected against their will to the Croatian Parliament. Thirdly, on liberal democracy, liberalism is sufficiently talked about by the successes of Đura Djakovic, whom you from the liberal option have imposed on the directors and brought him to bankruptcy. About the condition in HEP not to speak, where you've appointed all your directors. About the Energy Center where you set up all your people and gave them cars with heated seats that is your liberal democracy that has already shown very bad results in the world and precisely this outsorcing is exactly one of the inventions of your liberalism. And we need to think carefully about what to do with 25 thousand people and obviously they went into this fashionable referendum because they're glad to stand in the square or in the obscenities as you said, and that's what you said to the churches, etc., these are obscenities, quote you, and collect 15 days' signatures for a referendum in the rain, snow, sun.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88137	Thank you. Replication response, Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88138	My colleague Grubisic aside that you do not understand basic concepts such as liberal democracy, if it weren't for liberal democracy, you would not be sitting there today talking. I assume that you are insinuating a liberal democracy with its content with the notion of liberal ideas, ideas that represent liberal parties like mine, but then you must be more specific in that sense, and not put yourself in a position to actually mock the Croatian Parliament. You are directly mocking this House of Representatives who unanimously changed the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and defined the Constitution. ... That 8 versus 153 means about 5%. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, you are not only ignoring more than two-thirds majority in this Croatian Assembly, but you are trying through individual views to instruct something that the person you mention could never decide for himself because it was neither in any executive function nor was it able to influence the course of making these decisions more than any other 153 seems to me at that time of MPs. He's talking more about you. And as for HEP and these companies, yes, the HNS assumes responsibility for the state and management of these companies, unlike those in which you have humanised where you will never admit it. We're not only taking responsibility, we're saying it's funny what you found in the system of 11 thousand people of 37 HNS. I think there's more of them from the HDSSB than there are from the CNS. Yes, the HNS personnel will perform their duties there properly and run that company. And that's why it's positive, and that's why it's among the best in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88139	Please, both replicas and answers harmonize with the topic we're discussing. Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88140	Thank you very much. A respected colleague precisely because you have taken responsibility so firmly, which is why Croatian citizens resist the referendums. I don't think this flood of the referendum will offend the referendum's way of declaring citizens. Moreover, I think that she is welcome and desirable and that everyone in politics must imagine whether in exactly the way you say she can take responsibility and then work on the citizens' heads. Well, they have to resist in some way. Best to resist in this peaceful way. They found the right democratic path. It is better and fairer to say that a man supports something and does it publicly than to be hypocritical as we now have situations here in this new referendum where you have this gathering of signatures where you have a situation where I don't know the coalition in power and the government says it gives roads in concessions, highways, and on the other hand local SDP leaders are coordinators for collecting signatures against monetization. Here's an example of one of the very interesting ones from Koprivnica-Crysing County. So, co-ordinator for the Koprivnica-Crysing County is head of the local SDP to collect signatures against. It's hypocritical. And let the citizens decide for themselves in the referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88141	Replication response, Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88142	It's a well-known thing, I didn't make it up, that in all forms of direct declaration of citizens, the greatest space of manipulation of emotions is especially in times of crisis, especially in times where people need to think more about their existence. It's easy to push them in, and it's easy to point to Pedro, and it's easy to direct their anger against someone in society. Unfortunately, we have seen countless times such examples. Therefore, to raise just every referendum initiative, not a referendum, because so far only one of these has been held, these are all other initiatives. ... All the unconstitutional initiatives thus far, so to raise all these initiatives to the level of untouchable, sacred civil right to a direct statement is, in fact, to mock all those who are truly democratically mooded, who protect parliamentary democracy, but also the constitutional principle that allows such a form of declaration as the referendum, and the Croatian people, all Croatian citizens, in two cases, have shown when the most important decisions were at stake, and this is the disunity from the former Federation and the EU's full maturity of such initiatives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These particular groups that individual social groups are running to keep only their interests at large are a sign of questions. Because in this particular case, in this referendum initiative, it is hardly anyone working in the private sector who is in the mood to vote for someone to be in a better position than he is, and to actually do the same job. It's not fair, it's not marketable, it's not fair to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88143	Thank you. Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88144	Thank you very much. Well, I'll start with the one where you mentioned the unworthy unions. I can agree with it in a good way, but what makes the government credible. Look at what Plan 21 says, look behind what's written in the government program and look at what's going on now, where's the credibility? Employment of your own staff in state or public enterprises is something that is normal for you, and then you also find that the state is the worst employer, the state is not an employer at all in that case, but individuals who have appointed political authority and placed it in those places, and there is no responsibility when it destroys any of these companies. You say that the referendum of modernism, you mention even decoupling, I can tell you that the good work of this House was done by you and your coalition partners when the mass of powers transferred from the Parliament to the government. Well, among other things, the sale of state property is no longer the subject of this House's debate, but it's a decision to make, I'm not going to say one handful of people but one narrow circle of people. And in the end, I'm going to ask you a question if you think it's also in Switzerland which, if I've been well informed, I've had the most referendum lately, is it modernism and is that an example of a country where democracy just hasn't matured? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88145	Goran Beus Richembergh, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88146	I'll start from the last one. Yes, the referendums are also in Switzerland, subject to manipulation. I think it deserves such an assessment, any country where it is possible to ask a question to a referendum are you to ban churches from building bell towers? We have a precedent in Switzerland that proves it's possible to ask that too. As for the staff, I am very sorry that Labourists are unable to show what the strength of their personnel is, but I am very glad that the HNS is able to take over part of its responsibility in this coalition, along with coalition partners, to manage a broken system that was taken over in 2011 with losses, with huge problems, without structural reforms with a major crisis and certainly not on this government, nor on the personnel that it has set up, there is no responsibility for the situation in which all these systems and all those who went into restructuring, into bankruptcy, in liquidation, in fact because previous policies have sucked out of them every shred of life and threw them into the dump without worrying about the fates of the workers there. But I didn't notice anything, that we were so on our feet at the time, and that we were then from circles that were now oppositionally hearing concerns on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88147	Hey, buddy Grbin, you want a final? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on the proposal for a conclusion on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88148	Proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and a political system concerning requests for a national referendum on the adoption of a Law on the pursuit of follow-up non-basic activities in the public sector. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are called upon by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to verify the number and credibility of the signature of voters and requests to call a referendum on the adoption of the Law on the pursuit of follow-up non-basic activities in the public sector, which has been submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Organisational Committee for the Declaration of Voters on the need to request the publication of a referendum under the number, class: 01401/1402/05, ur number: 74-14-03 since 16 July 2014. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimously 116 votes for the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88149	Even today, as announced, we will discuss - The final bill on energy efficiency, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 708 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy and the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection. You received the reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Economy Minister Mr. Allen Leveric. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88150	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, you are facing the Energy Efficiency Act, which is in line with the EU Energy Efficiency Directive, which aims to determine and achieve direct and... energy savings by applying energy efficiency measures, all in order to achieve the objective of increasing the EU's energy efficiency by 20% by 2020 and to facilitate the path of further improving energy efficiency beyond the '20s. the year, so 2030, 2050. ...now the debate has begun on the committee. The Energy Efficiency Act regulates the public sector's behaviour in energy service bargaining, creating preconditions for the state to take the role of providing examples for the creation of the energy service market. The law also creates preconditions for private capital to be used for investment in state assets and to launch an investment cycle at no extra cost. The Energy Efficiency Act also sets out two institutes that have an impact on apartment owners in multi-state buildings and this energy service and energy reconstruction of the building. Both institutes are arranged in a way that the conclusion of the contract requires a sub-half majority of co-owners of buildings, not as it has been so far, with the consent of all co-owners. Energy service is a business where the company invests its money in improving energy efficiency, e.g. Wall isolation, the tenant therefore has a reduced energy bill, and that savings and wages. The savings payment is the energy bill, i.e. the savings are treated as energy and paid in the savings account. In the case of energy renovation of buildings, the implementation of works that improve only the energy performance of the building is carried out according to national programmes governing the users of the funds and other details relating to the implementation of the renovation programme. The co-owners may also agree on energy recovery without the use of the programme's resources. Without regulating these relations, co-owners do not have the opportunity to invest in reducing energy consumption without the consent of all co-owners, which restricts them in their own resources in an energy efficient way, and would also represent a significant obstacle to the development of the business for the provision of energy services, i.e. energy reconstruction of buildings. The adoption of this law will create conditions for setting targets, adopting measures to reduce energy consumption, mechanisms to foster energy efficiency through institutional financial other frameworks to remove obstacles that prevent the development of the energy efficiency market itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88151	Thank you very much. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the DC club, Novi Val and Independent MPs, counterpart Petar Baranovic. Excuse me, Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88152	Dear Assistant Minister, Deputy Minister, I understand your desire to continue to be effective, but I'm asking myself a question, and I've been asking myself that on the board, and I haven't received an answer, how do you plan to resolve property related to the Law of Property... if someone who owns a certain apartment is co-owner of an entire building in some ideal part? It could possibly be related to the Strategic Investments Act, but you did not reject the amendment that such a type of investment can, through the extradition in certain parts, affect property. So the owner of a facility, co-owner in some proportion, is directly subject to the Property Act. How do you force someone to do something on his property if he doesn't want to? And this model as you suggested doesn't make it possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88153	Comrade Baranovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88154	Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the DC Club, the New Val and here's today's People's Party of Reformists because we're registered, a few words about this law. For starters, I will say that our club and DC and the New Wave and the People's Party of Reformists will support this law, and very briefly given the already late hour, I will try to explain why. It's very simple. We live in a country where many things have been approached without criteria and in a country where responsibility is a very rare category. Today, in Croatia, in total energy distribution consumption, we record losses that are among the biggest losses among the countries of the European community and even wider. Losses in the distribution network of electricity in Croatia are enormously high. The losses we have in the areas of the local self-government unit are particularly high in public lighting because we allowed units of local self-government, cities and municipalities to invest money without criteria. If they looked at the structure of lighting bodies or technologies present in this area today, they would realize that even today in Croatia more than 50% of lighting bodies are far below what should be in the context of energy efficiency and responsible energy management. If we could look at the state of public buildings in Croatia from those that are in local self-government units of those under the authority of regional administration or county, then we would see that the large majority of buildings are in such a state in the context of energy efficiency that today, because of the lack of systematic access to energy efficiency in this society, we are losing billions, literally billions. Are we rich enough to waste our energy? Of course not, especially when we are also a country that in 20 years of its existence from the draft to today has not found fit to build any new hydrocentrals, when we are energy-dependent in all categories of energy and even where it should not be. In such a situation, this law, which does not only bring Croatia's legislation into line with the EU regulation, as stated by the Deputy Minister in the opening statement, represents the start of a systematic approach and a clear regulation as well as in what way it is responsible to manage, to invest and take care of consumption and energy efficiency in the future. This law obliges the essential participants of the unit of local self-government, distributors, suppliers, suppliers to very clear planning, to make very clear the recording of the measures implemented and to report very clearly to the central state body which has also been provided for by this law, whose duty is to control what is being done in this domain. This law introduces the measurement done. This is his characteristic which we particularly like and for this reason as a party who wants us to put responsibility in Croatian politics on pedestal, to put efficiency on pedestal, to put on pedestal a concrete, rationally planned consumption, in investments this legal framework which essentially covers all these areas in the context of energy efficiency we will support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88155	Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88156	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You told your colleague Baranovic that the responsibility of a rare category was with us and I can agree with you, but that we should certainly give education or knowledge to someone who is expected to be responsible. In fact, each of us should certainly use energy according to the restored sources, and we should also take care of the generations that remain after us. With this law, we implement the EU directive, but I think the goal is to make this law a way of life. And now we can wonder how, how can it become? The most likely is the development of consciousness. And that is why I advocate education, and I would like this law to be implemented in other ministries or the Ministry of Education because it is very important that we even teach children in kindergartens from the beginning about how energy efficiency can be maintained. In fact, when we talk about saving if we talk about energy efficiency then we can say savings. But it's not saving in the right sense of words but with less can be done. And in order for us to expect that responsibility from someone, we need to provide information. I've been pushing for education since the beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88157	Petar Baranovic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88158	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Bonačić, I have nothing personal against education and, of course, I advocate informing the public about such topics. However, I see this law primarily as a legal framework that will finally force rational behavior. I will give a brief example, when we came to the city of Sibenik in 2009 we found electricity bills of 7 million kuna in the total budget in the real budget of the city that was actually around 165, 170 million kuna. In a situation where it has withdrawn almost complete revenues from the area of municipal compensation. For what? Because for years it has not been invested in modernising the public lighting network, it has not been considered energy efficiency, and money has gone to some far less priority and sometimes to the local self-government unit as well as other local self-government units. This law puts all participants and all important factors, and particularly puts and highlights the public sector as an example to everyone else, puts them in a position to plan, reflect energy efficiency, that this is measurable, recorded and that they must account for what they have planned and what they have realised from the planned. He's finally forcing us to start running rationally and invest in those investments that have their own justification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88159	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Đuro Popiac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88160	Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. With all the objectives that Mr. Deputy Minister has put out here, we absolutely agree, we support them, and we do not dispute the necessity of achieving these goals. In its essence, this law introduces more changes in the energy sector and in other segments that include all of this, hence construction and transport of goods related to electricity consumption than all that has been adopted in terms of regulation in past laws, regulations over the past two or three years. We therefore hold that it is extremely necessary that this law does not go by this urgent procedure, because so much complex matter and so many things are being touched, that it will produce great chaos in all those segments in all those who will be forced to follow the obligations of this law and the regulations that will follow behind this law. The fundamental reason why this is brought to me is the fact that the regulation was adopted in 2012, that Croatia has done nothing on this subject, therefore energy efficiency in general and the achievement of these European objectives and standards, and that it must be corrected in a hasty manner and at least formally to satisfy what has probably come into the EU's observations without having to double the need for this matter to be regulated by law and perhaps even in such a way as this is envisaged only in a significantly different content and qualitative form. The law is filled with errors, contradictions and incorrect or at least dubious definitions, and this leaves room for a completely false interpretation of obligations and what will really result in the application of this law. This law I do not remember further some similar that prescribed the adoption of one strategy, one regulation, 8 regulations, and it seems to me 21 action plan plus one national, so county and technical regulations for products placed on the market, all in some limited time of three months. It's not gonna happen first, it's impossible. And with every rulebook being signed by two ministers. Nothing has been said whether with consent, but it is said in each article that one minister along with another minister will bring some kind of regulation. How it's going to work, how it's going to be physically done, it's a complete enigma, and the obligations are going to run. In the first pages of this bill, let's say, here's a chapter where the following adoption of the Energy Efficiency Act would achieve the following objectives of two points and now it says this. I expect a list of goals, but what it says. "The adoption of this law will create conditions for setting goals." I mean, what is this, if anyone reads anything when they're sending it to the government and to the Parliament. Furthermore, "the adoption of measures to reduce primary energy consumption in the activities of production, transmission and distribution of energy mechanisms to stimulate energy efficiency through institutional, financial, etc. other frameworks". This is where production is mentioned, nothing in the further text is said about it. What kind of energy efficiency production? Of course there can be, but what production. I guess that might be related to some article there that speaks for the obligations of the distributor to connect the cogeneration, but it leaves a lot of space for us to interpret it the way we think it should be. We're not talking about all these great goals as my predecessor spoke to a fellow respected. We all know that, we all agree on that, but there's something that needs to be done, at least write down the regulation that it's enforceable, that it can be realized. We come to, for example, Chapters of mandatory energy efficiency, which seems to me essential, because the full responsibility for achieving the objectives is shifted to distributors and suppliers. And that's the essence of the law, that's those few members that actually are the essence. All of these other things are things that might happen, but they probably won't. So the energy service and what do you know what else is listed there as great ideas. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. What does that mean? We know what it is, who the distributor is. What's direct consumption? It's every stove, TV, and everything we have or a radiator, everything we have at home. Is that direct consumption? Maybe I get it wrong, but as soon as I'm able to interpret it like that, I should definitely write down what it is. So the distributor is responsible for achieving these objectives that are listed here. And here we predict that there will be an improvement in energy efficiency in public buildings. But this one will pay if that doesn't happen. I understand that's what it says. It shall therefore pay the following, if the energy distributor fails to fulfil the obligation referred to in paragraph 3, it shall pay the contribution to the fund in the amount equal to the investments required to meet the unsecured part of the savings from the previous year. I don't know what kind of argument you had with those people, what did they say about this? It also states the duty of the energy supplier. So every supplier, it's just a question of how it's going to be, how much time it takes to do that, when this law comes into force and the obligation of all of these to do so. Perhaps if it had been passed in 2012 that they had been preparing for it for three years, it would have been normal. I know that at some point they'll have to do it. But let's say the supplier is obliged without compensation at least once a year to provide information on the calculation, savings and all that stems from the objectives of this law. Are they even equipped to do so and when they will begin to do so? And they all have to do that to compare to what's called. the reference end-users of the same category of final customers. Well, let's see who's the reference final buyer for apartment buildings? How will you define it and who will it be? All of this should, of course, be done and at what time and how much of it is prepared to do so? Energy distributors shall ensure that the extent to which this is technically possible is financially justified and proportionate in view of potential energy savings to end customers at competitive prices is something, i.e. individual numbers. What are those definitions? By what criteria, technical characteristics, financial savings can this be done at all? What are competitive prices? I'm talking about that the intentions are certainly very good and useful and it's necessary to do all of this, I repeat for a few times. But this will be impossible to implement. As regards the duties of transmission system operator, distribution system operator and energy market operator. So, I like this if I correctly interpret that the transmission system and distribution system operators will now have to deal differently with the integration of cogeneration-related investments, so the production of electricity and heat energy, because this so far has been chaos, and that is why we are very poor in this area and investment, but also in production itself. However, there remains one dilemma in the fact that the transmission system operator can rank priorities. Is it now possible to manipulate it, whether it meets certain criteria more or less? So far, so whoever comes first and gets in line. It is good that any new electricity producer produced from a highly efficient cogeneration which wishes to join the system is provided with comprehensive and necessary information. It's been paid to the institutes and the HEP so far. Now here's what it says is that the question of course is how it's going to be done, is it still going to cost something, is it going to be done for weeks, months? But here's another rule to make it more detailed and defined. And now there's the same dilemma. Therefore, measurement and accounting information. It's the first time something that's startled me, and I don't know what it's about. For example, Article 18(2) states: "The distributor, i.e. the energy suppliers and/or water suppliers, shall be liable as necessary in/or with accounts, contracts, transactions etc." Now it doesn't matter. Now for the first time, water, energy and water appear. What kind of water? Is drinking water, water for heating, hot water, cold water, what does that mean? So that's the first time he's shown up here. Moreover, for example, Article 21, the public sector's duty, also states that a legal or natural person in charge of monitoring energy and water consumption must be appointed. It may have something to do with energy efficiency, but it should be clarified. Nothing before is said about water, and now suddenly, energy and water are being measured and delivered somewhere. Who? And something about the whole implementation and monitoring mechanism. This provides for a body responsible for all these monitoring and implementation in a supervisory sense. And that's this National Center, and he's going to, that's the role of the Energy Investment Center. As I recall, that center was formed for some other things entirely. We remember three years ago the tsunami of investments in energy and the law on the centre because without that investment centre in Croatia in energy there will be no investment or anything, no energy efficiency or centre. And now, in order for that center to probably get a job, we've seen before that he's got a lot of stuff in his jurisdiction, and now we're going to give him more of this. Just so he can either justify the purpose of existence or no one will do it. Not this ministry, not that, not the fund, then that's what we push into that center. Is that center equipped for that? This is where software is predicted for it. And it says here that this law will cost nothing to the state or that it does not need to be provided for financing, so it is not true because the centre is already equipped with some former... the centres to perform such an important role. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just that center, so we don't say any other things. I don't have much time anymore. With regard to energy services and energy efficiency contracts themselves, someone else may have the opportunity to comment further. What a mess it will be, if it's ever been able to do that. We will probably have a chance to comment on some of the following changes to this law. And just one more detail, so it says here that energy-related products can only be placed on the market if they comply with the eco-design requirements. And energy-related products are defined earlier, i.e. all products that are placed on the market and from this microphone at the end of the day, all of them, so it says in this Regulation. And now, the minister, and yet together with the Minister in charge of environmental protection, will write a regulation that will prescribe general conditions for eco-design of products and requirements for placing energy-related products on the market and use. Then, together with the Minister responsible for environmental protection, the minister will adopt technical regulations as implementing eco-design measures. Well, you don't have a chance to do that, so are you aware of what you wrote in there at all? Or, of course, some who may read a little more in detail simply are unable to figure out the genius of a product like this. Two more words. I believe that this is a directly prescribed directive, that it has even been misimplemented but that it is not an enforceable law, that's what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88161	Thank you. You have the replicas of your club, so you'll make up for it. Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88162	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Drinker, I fully agree with you that the law is contradictory and that the least the government should do is direct it to another reading. Among other things, and for the reasons that our Assembly Committee on Law has laid down in a law that has the 45th article of the amendment on the 24th article, and these articles still seem to me to be 30 items, so there are more changes. Now, how through this debate and the adoption of this law on Friday, we're only going to regulate this law in a nomotechnic sense, I just don't understand it in a nomotechnical sense, and I'm not talking about these contradictions that you mentioned earlier. Then you also mentioned the Centre for the Monitoring of Business and Investments in the Energy Sector. This law puts out the power of the Energy Act in direct consumption, and this law first introduced a centre and gave it certain competences to monitor also the implementation of energy efficiency in 2012, and then in 2013, we threw out those powers, probably not satisfied with its work, left to the Agency for Legal Traffic and Real Estate Intervention. Now, again, we're passing a new law and we're returning and giving some authority to that same center, and a year ago we said that, so we kicked him out of that law because we thought he wasn't doing it well enough, and we left that job to the Agency for Legal Traffic. So it's a lot, and I'm going to talk about it later in an individual debate, and there's a lot of these contradictions that are really the least we should do to get the law back to the first, or go to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88163	Only the Parliament can do that. The answer to the replica of Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88164	Thank you very much. My colleague, that was his intention. So we really want to be constructive and there's no reason here to politicize anything. And we can simply continue to insist that such laws are no longer adopted in this way prepared or unprepared. So this was obviously necessary to push into the process because of the speed and obligations we must probably meet according to, formal obligations towards the EU. So once again, here's what you said, and what you're going to say next should be further argued and strengthened by these arguments that this must have serious changes. We want to support the law, we need it, but we make it enforceable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88165	My colleagues, in our Rules of Procedure, you know what it's like to have an emergency procedure. If you want another reading you know what to do, if you want the amendments you know again what to do. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88166	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Indeed, a fellow drinker was very picturesque and made it clear that it was, it could be said briefly and clearly unprepared by a legal proposal or by cheating... or from the EU, clearly from the Regulation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to these contradictory provisions that you spoke of with foggy definitions, while we are obliged to implement this 20-20-20 plan by 2020 and we are very late for this plan, hence reducing greenhouse gases, increasing the production of clean energy, etc. That's the 20-20-20. Well, I've just come out and I see our Croatian Parliament, and we're also passing this law and we're going to bring it in, and look at what it looks like to be a facade and what energy efficiency would be like if we were to legalize the Croatian Parliament building, what kind of assessment would we get from this competent authority for an energy certificate, and so that we could fix the energy situation in the Croatian Parliament in order to be an example of the others, so the public building of the Croatian Parliament, we should come or at least write something about a journalist not having to die here without a word when it comes out, and the facade falls on his head. This is what we are discussing, about a lot of things, about foggy terms, and we have an example that is ten meters from here, very picturesque for the question of energy efficiency, and also in a building like the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88167	Djuro Pupil, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88168	Thank you very much for your remarks. Now I'm going to try to explain exactly what this law predicts, so this can be solved. So here it is predicted that the deputy minister was talking about fostering the energy efficiency and energy services market, so energy services through energy efficiency contracts. Therefore, it is predicted that it is possible for a private investor to negotiate with the owner the renewal of this facade, the change of windows, that it is financing all of it, and then the Parliament pays him that investment, which counts as electricity consumption. It's supposed to be an energy service, I'm not saying it's not good. Something similar tried to work with the restoration of the facades and with the public private partnership, so now he's trying again with the energy service. I don't know if it's possible to pay the service for it to be implemented through the State budget of the Ministry of Finance, which is treated as paying the price for electricity. This also says whether it is even possible in this law to say that the budget will treat the restoration of the public institution's facade, and that it is shown as, accountingly, in the budget to be a consumption of electricity. I'm not saying, I repeat that I don't know if it's clear enough all together, so it can be done and it's probably good and direction, it's just a lot of things unarranged that it's actually going to...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88169	Thank you. Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88170	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Popijac, you've made it very clear that this law is a source of contradictions and misunderstandings that must be made through certain decisions and new obligations to our counties, and then through them by municipalities and cities. So it is said that it is determined that the adoption of the County Action Plan and large cities, which determines the implementation of a policy for... energy efficiency in counties, or large cities, for a three-year period. If plans are to be made, then project documentation must also be made in order to achieve these plans. The 2nd article also says the annual plan of counties and large cities. With our county's budget cut, income tax cities are now another one of the new commitments. Everything you can't, you should have written, yes, the Energy Efficiency Fund will pay... project documentation... financing of all projects in our regional units. Namely, the contradiction is that this is contrary to the Property Act and it is impossible to make 50% of the owners decide on the one who owns 35-40% of the building in the space or apartment and cannot impose the will of those who have, by them, 20 who have some smaller apartments in that building. Equally, the liberalisation of the possibility of using environmental funds in the restoration of facades on collective housing buildings is certainly not well defined and there is no right place in this law. We would like there to be a lot more of those who through energy efficiency in collective housing will get new facades, new cheaper heating, as well as new...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88171	Thank you. Replication response, Djuro Poppie.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88172	You have seen well, therefore, that regional self-government will also have to come up with action plans, which is probably not bad at the end. The second question is financing, which is how and who will do it, but also behind that, which is much more important, which will finance the very activities that assume it. But here, I may repeat, again, it might be possible to resolve it by negotiating energy services with, of course, definitions, along with rules, with an entire environment that is quite clear and precise, I don't know, in Virovits County, to open the space to hire, I don't know, all of their buildings owned by such a process and the process by hiring a private investor. But all of this still smells like a public private partnership that is, in fact, obvious and despite being announced fiercely as investment tsunamis can end up just like that with one big zero if they continue to force such laws, undefined, undefined and which only opens up further space for, well, doing nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88173	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88174	Thank you very much. So you said well that this is actually a set of good, good wishes, and I think that Croatia is no longer in a situation that only because of some deadlines it has to pass laws that are practically inapplicable. And that's why the Fiscal Responsibility Act is about to show how much something is going to cost and how much it's going to sting. However, we have forgotten the key thing here, and that is to whom this law will apply and who will participate in this implementing law. Is there private capital in Croatia that could invest this together at such a price? It doesn't exist. Because if there was, he'd probably have already activated himself somewhere else. Are local self-government units therefore municipalities, cities, counties and states in a situation where they are all practically with tense budgets, are they able to invest some extra money? No, they're not. And if this law is passed, we've actually imposed a commitment on someone, and the question of whether or not that obligation can be paid. And that we don't even talk about citizens here as property owners who aren't able to pay what they have right now. And yet let's not skip one key thing, last year was the easiest winter in the last 100 years in the Republic of Croatia. Look at the gas prices, and apparently the gas did not accumulate, which are heated on gas and electricity were slightly higher than it was in the previous year, which was extremely cold. Doesn't that say something? So who gave someone the right to change the formula and by that formula I paid for the same heating in that year in which there was virtually no winter as in the previous year? So a string, a series of questions someone's gonna have to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88175	The Djuro Drinker's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88176	Thank you very much. This is one of the key issues of the same nature, so that at least as far as gas is concerned, but of course with electricity is not different, the infrastructure of the whole or the mechanism of monitoring the savings not of consumption, so how it will be regulated is yet to be seen. Again, these mechanisms are also in the directive and they are part of European legislation and we will have to implement it in time and ability what you said when we are able to do it. So first we have a fundamental problem that our gas meters are cubes, not energy. Maybe some of us can recalculate it at home, all of us more or less have to believe that this calculation from a cubic meter of gas is equal to the equivalent of energy I don't know anything about. We need to be able to measure the energy. I don't know what they're letting me through the pipe. They're giving me the cubics. I don't know if they're giving me that caloric value of that gas like they're counting on me. How many tens or maybe hundreds of thousands of gasometers in Croatia need to be replaced. Here it says that distributors at a competitive price will have to offer if they can remember all the details well. These are all elements that will raise many questions when implementing this law. And about this other fiscal here, it's probably still going to break the spear whether something can be transferred from this category or that category, and it's not really that category. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88177	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, colleague Nenad Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88178	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So that, from these previous exhibitions, we can conclude that this law is written in haste and that there are a lot of necessary repairs, probably due to the implementation of the directive, because by 2020, every EU Member State, including Croatia, has a duty to reduce its energy consumption by 20% and to facilitate the way for further improvements in energy efficiency. It is a huge task that will require a change in the lifestyle of the citizens of Europe as well as a way of business and policies of the countries themselves. Energy efficiency in Croatia should be seen as one of the serious generators of future economic growth and a means of employment. Effective energy management is one of the biggest challenges for the EU. Croatia adopted the Energy Development Strategy in 2009 and adopted international commitments in accession negotiations with the EU to reduce primary energy consumption and increase energy efficiency. Croatia has committed itself to taking over a 20+20+20 energy target package, i.e. to increase the share of energy production and renewables to 20% increase energy efficiency by 20% and reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020. In Croatia almost 50% of the housing funds are buildings built prior to the adoption of regulations governing the area of savings and energy and heat protection in buildings. It is estimated that these buildings spend over 250 kilowatt hours of energy per meter per year for heating. The example of work, low energy and passive houses per year spent only 70% of that amount and only 15 kilowatts per meter per year on heating. Such reductions in energy consumption cannot be achieved by building recoverys of existing buildings, but this must be the goal of rebuilding buildings and commitments in designing new buildings. At times when sudden and sharp jumps in energy prices on the world and domestic market are a common phenomenon, and their supply and uncertainty are politically conditioned and while global climate change becomes increasingly pronounced Croatia must ensure its energy future, which requires a serious approach to finding measures to increase energy efficiency, the possibility of using renewable energy sources, district heating and cooling, reducing fossil fuel use and environmental pollution. In October 2008, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship in cooperation with the UN Development Programme presented also the adaptation and upgrade of the Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia. This document particularly emphasises the need to increase energy efficiency, and in the household sectors, housing points to a number of opportunities that can reduce energy consumption. Many in the purchase of a new or old car are usually crucial fuel consumption while many have not even thought about the consumption of heating or cooling energy. One of the goals of energy certification is that the customer of the apartment knows what he is getting, that is to say, how high-quality energy his apartment is made, which has a significant impact on energy consumption expenditure. The Energy Certificate Regulation defines the buildings for which an energy certificate is to be issued. According to the Regulation, residential and residential buildings are classified in 8 energy classes, and according to the energy scale from A+ to G, where A+ is the most energy-efficient design of passive houses, and B and C corresponds to the low energy class. The energy weakest class is marked G and most buildings built before the 1970 Regulation enter into that class. Energy certification will contribute to the regulation of the real estate market, and will encourage investors to better build using better materials. Croatian regulations in the area of energy saving and heat protection in buildings, the requirements laid down by the European Directive on energy characteristics of buildings, and the transposition of the directive into national legislation through laws and sublaws fully monitors the trend of movement in the EU. Change of legislation and implementation of the European Directive on energy characteristics of buildings is ongoing. In terms of energy efficiency, we mean a wide range of activities aimed at reducing the consumption of all kinds of energy in the observed facility resulting in a reduction of CO2 emissions to unchanged heat, light and other comfort of its tenants. Energy efficiency in housing buildings and promoting the use of renewable energy can change the relations of the energy needs of the Republic of Croatia, which is directly related to the reduction of environmental pollution in which we live. The crucial role in the National Energy Construction Programme is also the education of users, i.e. All of us energy consumers. Taking into account the state of technology in our country and worldwide adoption of the Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia in 2009 and the international commitment made by the Republic of Croatia in the accession negotiations with the EU in all sectors of primary energy use, spending may be reduced. So the reduction is possible in the housing sector, and the psychophysical conditions, the ease of living in space, are maintained at a comfortable level. The energy development strategy promotes efficient use of energy in the housing sector and the use of renewable energy sources in particular the use of solar energy and biomass. Heat protection of buildings is one of the most important topics due to the huge potential of energy savings. Insufficient thermal insulation leads to increased heat loss in winter, cold pain structures, condensation damage, and overheating of space in summer. The consequences are construction damage, and uncomfortable and unhealthy housing. Warming such spaces requires a greater amount of energy leading to an increased cost of using and maintaining space, as well as increased environmental pollution. Energy efficiency in buildings includes a whole range of different areas, energy saving opportunities with a rational application of fossil fuels, and the use of renewable energy sources in buildings where this is functionally feasible and economically justified. The analysis of existing regulations shows a tightening of energy savings and thermal insulation criteria in buildings, which lays the basis for achieving significant energy savings in the construction sector. It is estimated that there are huge untapped potentials in the construction sector, energy savings up to 30%. The application of new regulations stimulates the application of bio-climate design techniques, the use of passive sunlight and the exploitation of renewable energy sources. As regards this law, Article 13 which, when we have mentioned it, is said in subparagraph 4. if the energy distributor fails to fulfil the obligations set out in paragraph 3 of this Article, and the amount of the savings is to pay the contribution to the fund in the amount that is equal to the investments required to meet the unsecured part of the savings from the previous year. I'm asking the Deputy Minister who will determine whether it's a fund or a national coordination body. Because we, with every new law we make, are bound to form a new legislative body. Articles 29 and 30 also discusses the supra-dominated majority of co-owners. I feel like they're passing laws, so a half majority is needed, but I know and I'm living in a building how much trouble it is when one of the co-owners of the apartments makes a problem and disagrees with the other tenants. That's why I hope you find legal opportunities to do so, because otherwise I don't see how this law can be implemented. In Article 31, you shall speak in paragraph 1 when the procurement procedure for the supply of products and energy-related products is implemented, the contracting authority shall apply the criteria for the selection of offers and technical specifications relating to the increase in energy efficiency to the extent that this is in line with cost-effectiveness, economic feasibility, broad sustainability, technical suitability and sufficient level of competition. That should be determined by the minister, I don't know on what basis, by what criteria. In Article 42, you shall specify as much as 12 regulations, regulations, regulations to which they should be completed and to which they should implement this law. Some are delivered within 3 months and some within 6 months. However, I think that, for one more quality Energy Act, a lot of things should have already been in this law, not with subsequent regulation of programmes, regulations and regulations. Although the adoption of this bill has not resolved the long-term strategy of building reconstruction and the development of the National Energy Efficiency Plan as a strategic document, I hope that by achieving savings and increasing energy efficiency, it will bring the target between 20% and 2020 and facilitate the way forward to further improving energy efficiency after 2020. I believe it's just a beginning to accomplish that goal, and I hope you'll succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88179	Replica, Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88180	You said at the beginning that this law was passed as a matter of urgency and a whole series of laws and that later we had to change them or find them inapplicable. And you said what I was in the introduction and asked the deputy minister, you said you hoped to find a legal solution in which to solve this co-ownership problem otherwise you don't see how the law will be implemented. I'm asking that same question again. The constitution is clear here, the property is clear. Now the question is why 50-50%, why shouldn't it be 20-30%? Because by any percentage of the property, you're influencing someone's property. The question is, does that 50% live in that house at all and do they need it? This law has not been settled at all, it seems to me that my colleague Grubisic mentioned here, the Croatian Parliament building. What in the City of Zagreb, how to achieve energy efficiency when conservatives set out the conditions for restoring the facade on a building and not taking into account any Styrofoam or some kind of thermal insulation, even though they are looking for traditional mort mixed shrubs and I don't know what not. So, the whole series of questions here are practically, not to say all that Mr. Drinker said in this very part of this section that applies to a whole series of articles. And then there's the Public Procurement Act, right here in the article where it's mentioned as the most economically advantageous offer. What is the most economically advantageous offer in the sense that we all choose the cheapest through a public tender, which is ultimately the most expensive solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88181	The answer to the line, Nenad Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88182	Well, colleague Klaric, yes, we agree. Co-ownership in buildings is a big problem if all tenants would be aware of the energy efficiency of housing. I can only say from my example, I live here in Gorski Kotar where winters are big, heavy, long and where there is plenty of wood and energy to warm up apartments. I used to spend 12 metres of cubic wood in a 70 square - square apartment, and by changing just the carpentry, I reduced it by 4 meters cubic. It's easy for some people to explain and prove, it's hard for them. And there's going to be a very big problem. It's good to imagine this, over 50%, like us here 50 plus 1 hand in the air and we're passing the law. However, many of those residents who do not live there, who do not look back at those tenants who spend time there. The legislator said something about this means that that distributor will need to invest in savings that this should not cost anything as co-owners, and they will return it through savings. It's all under one big question. Because when a law like this is passed in a hurry, there's a lot in the air. They're good intentions, but will they be real and viable? Hardly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88183	Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88184	Thank you very much. You told your colleague Pleše and mentioned how Croatia had committed itself, in fact it is our obligation, to build 20% of renewable energy sources by 2020. But there is one problem that this current government is wandering simply and we will do it but we would have done it before, first of all, to ensure that part of the funds that is allocated from the price of electricity, but potential investors who want to invest in Croatia in wind power plants, in the sun energy come essentially into such absurdity to start with certain documentation and then only suddenly the decision of the minister of this or that said is no longer such today, the price of a kw, but it is significantly reduced in relation to the previous one. So I'm asking you, those people who are today, and I know here from Požega-Slavon County investors who have invested a great deal of money in project documentation for wind power plants and have come to a fact-finding end of them is not the price anymore but the second. Mr. Deputy Minister, I ask you to give future investors such investors a guarantee that you know them who started certain capital investments to guarantee that all those who started today will have a guaranteed price, not that you bring a man to spend a few million euros and simply tell him the price from today is not like that, but it is much less. And of course his capital investment that he planned for 8, 9 years extends to 14 or 15 years. It is a total uncertainty and we simply reject potential investors and of course we will not have them and of course they are running from Croatia. And then let's not wonder why this is our economic situation, why we don't have a potential investor when we contribute to this very situation ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88185	The answer to the replica Nenad Dances.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88186	Well, fellow Lucic, you're right. We often pass laws over and out in a hurry, and then we get a big miss, but it doesn't matter we'll have that law in two, three months and we'll have that law in the debate again, and then we'll probably fix it. Yes, the fact is that investors come and then we have all kinds of absurdities to start with investment, and then their laws keep changing. For example, one such is the installation of solar collectors on roof structures di even the electricity industry undertakes to take over excess energy, let in distribution, but then it is usually corrected or reduced, or not taken over. It was also already agreed that wind power plants would work, and then we come up with strange situations, to the referendum that citizens then refuse to hold a referendum setting such wind power plants, and everyone would like to set alternative energies. But when it comes to setting it up, there are problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88187	And Branko Bacic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88188	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Plesch, you have asked the Deputy Minister to answer you who will determine the obligation of the distributor unless he fulfils the objectives prescribed by this law. It's an important question, but believe me, it's a secondary question, it's a much more important question to be answered by the deputy minister where the distributors will pay for it. Whether they are unable to fulfil the obligations under this law, they will make their commitment to end-users, to citizens by increasing electricity prices. Because it's questionable how responsible the distributor is because the APN, for example, didn't lift, raised while we're talking to this building, energy efficiency of the Parliament? And because the APN didn't do it, he didn't find a natural person or legal person who would arrange the facade and raise the power efficiency of the Parliament, the penalty will be paid by a distributor who distributes electricity. I don't see where it is, or let the Deputy Minister explain to us where it found that foothold, where it was found that someone who distributed energy was responsible for the fact that the state body, in this case, the APN did not execute and raise the public sector building to a higher level of energy efficiency. I don't see it without saying that according to the Energy Act, the distributor is not even a supplier. Therefore, even more so, distributors have made an observation to the public debate that they should not be concerned, but that if someone already has to get over that obligation to be suppliers. Because one is a distributor, the other is a supplier, the third is a transporter and the fourth is a power producer. So in this chain, we made this law binding on the distributor in the same way that we could punish the energy producer for not implementing this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88189	Nenad dances, the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88190	Well, colleague Bacic, I'd like to give you an answer to your questions, but then you'd have to sit down as Deputy Minister. That in this three you listed distributors, suppliers, consumers... The latter is paid by consumers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Distributors or suppliers will always switch their minuses on the accounts to that end-user. I'm afraid it's a bitter truth, but that's how it usually happens in our lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88191	On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Marijan Skvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88192	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. When we talk about the draft Energy Efficiency Act with the final draft of the law, we need first of all to look at the right framework of this law. And the legal framework is the system of efficient use of energy in the Republic of Croatia, which is prescribed by the law on the efficient use of energy in direct consumption, which is transposed in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia by the EU's legal acquis in the field of energy efficiency. This part is defined by the objectives, which is to increase the EU's energy efficiency by 20% by 2020, and determines the system of commitments and the method of calculating energy savings. Of course, by way of effect of the Energy Efficiency Act, the Act would cease to apply to the effective use of energy in direct production. When we talk about this bill, then get... Basic issues that are being regulated, and here are the plans, obligations, measures, powers and procedures themselves. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In that part, I would like to mention a few, which I personally and of course consider the HNS club to be very important. It's primarily a definition of national... Energy efficiency bodies, which will ensure systematic planning to improve energy efficiency in the Republic of Croatia and will monitor... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Energy efficiency, performance results and energy efficiency policy measures, and manage the monitoring, measurement and verification system of energy savings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also important to negotiate energy services in co-ownership communities, i.e. multiple housing barriers, in such a way that through the energy performance contract, the co-ownership community will not invest in the performance of the works, and no credit obligation arises and take no risks related to the implementation of energy savings. This law also determines guaranteed energy savings, so that it must be equal to or greater than the energy impact contract, thus achieving the consent of co-owners not to pay savings that have not been achieved. Furthermore, the energy service provider is obliged to invest exclusively its own resources, excluding the possibility of a contract in a way that represents a new cash cost for co-owners, since the compensation can only be charged for the savings achieved. The implementation of the energy base of several residential buildings according to the national energy reconstruction programme of several residential buildings is defined by the majority of the majority of the votes in the reconstruction of the multi-optimal building brought by the co-owner and accounted for by co-owners and by the number of co-owners. It's quite well defined and it's in many legal... defined in this way, solved many doubts, illogicalities, misunderstandings. For perhaps one comparison and... most of the votes of co-owners of the building can be individual and owner of the apartment from that building and voted and moved to another space. The public sector's behaviour on energy settlement is defined and regulated, conditions are created for investment in state property to benefit private capital, a system of payment, measurement... energy savings and, of course, the obligation to inform the customer and all stakeholders on the possibilities of investment in energy efficiency. That's what he's saying, about information and... all the participants in... energy efficiency implementation. Three things if specifically noted, which are obtained by this law, is that it will create conditions for setting targets by adopting measures to reduce energy consumption and mechanisms to promote energy efficiency through institutional, financial and other frameworks to remove obstacles that prevent energy efficiency markets from developing. We've been talking here, and we've only been looking for obstacles to the development of the market in that part, and I think this law creates conditions for setting the goals that we defined at the beginning. The question related to the specificity of the energy service and the energy renewal of the building will also be addressed, which creates an environment for the mobilisation of investment capital in energy efficiency projects leading to an increase in employment and a reduction in dependence on import energy. This should not be said how important it is for the national state and for all of us that we are very independent of the energy in our area. We've got resources. It's up to us to make that happen. And, of course, it will contribute to the achievement of the national objective, the energy savings defined by the Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia. What I would like to mention once again at the end, that the HNS Club, the Liberal Democrats, will support the proposal for a law on energy efficiency because we do have multiple benefits that are listed at the outset, above all for the state as energy independence. It is also used to increase economic activity, and it is very important in these difficult times of recession, of course we are also talking about environmental protection, what is most important, and that is the benefit of our citizens. And of course, here I would mention that these are not just a set of wishes, there are very specific examples of energy efficiency in our country. These examples are in northern Croatia, in the... county of which we can really say that we have many projects that have already been implemented especially on public goods, i.e. in schools, in halls, and I can also say with me, as local leader and mayor of Lepoglava, projects of more than 5 million kuna at energy efficiency level are currently being implemented. The 3 million kuna comprises a financial 73 facility where there is now a change in carpentry and facades. We're talking about our elementary school where we changed the facade, we changed the carpentry, we set up solar panels, and we also set up heat pumps. We also have two heat pumps that we funded for our individual housing. All the projects we're doing, we're doing in a way that our facilities have to be A+ energy class. What I'm saying is, first of all, we need to change the way we think, the way life and the way we behave, and this law will make us very much to do it, for our benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88193	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88194	Thank you very much. Comrade Skvarić, you have said that this law has created conditions for achieving the goals. It is undeniable that the objectives are stated, that they are clear, that it would be good to achieve them, but the law itself, I have read it several times, I do not understand it technically. In implementing terms, it's impossible to understand him. He is so complicated and vague that there will be great difficulty in applying. And here's an example. It is said in Article 26, paragraph 7 for services, works and goods under the Energy Impact Contract, the value added tax obligation will be paid over... period. So the energy service provider, according to this, will be able to pay off a 10-year VAT, but it already has through VAT-paid inputs and most recently corresponds to the input VAT and the output VAT, the service is, only for the service level is the higher VAT. What will happen when he can pay the VAT he has already paid for for 10 years means he will have a request for VAT returns. Is that the meaning of the law that someone can have pre-planned VAT returns, and they will have more than 50%. And secondly, the law changes the second law. How is it possible to amend the VAT law? But that's not what the proposer was worried about, in a technical sense, he didn't clear anything up. Article 27, paragraph 2, so it is not understood at all, try to simulate it in a practical example. It is impossible to simulate it, it is impossible to predict what the legislator meant in this, how it will be, investment maintenance is the rebuilding of the building. How can someone book this as a cost of energy? I don't get it. It's impossible. And that's not what the proposer's worried about, it only leads to someone, yeah, well, that would be nice. And if it had waited a little while and practically solved these doubts, it would have been a law of quality and conduct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88195	Replication response, Marijan Škurić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88196	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow, my personal opinion is that the greatest sin in this part... is the sin of inaction. And yes, indeed, if we are talking about part of this bill, it may be... one pilot project, or what we are now entering with a lot of experience or inexperience in Croatia, we can discuss it. You were talking about whether this law is technically enforceable, is it... is it possible? We're wondering, but what's still my position and opinion, that law should be passed, if there are any problems, any misunderstandings in all of this, better change it three or four times because we're going to do a lot more than you said we should wait. I'm afraid of the experience of what we always do around the law we'll wait a few years then we'll wonder again and wonder why there's no investment, why we haven't achieved these goals, why we don't have economic growth, why we don't have a more energy-efficient state, why we don't have an independent state with regard to energy, etc. We'd better go try it here, we're smart, this is Parliament's decision, and above all, it's our responsibility to discuss it in quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88197	On behalf of the SDP representative club colleague Ivana Posavec Krivec. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88198	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. There's another law before us, a law that we see through different prisms. We in the SDP club recognise energy efficiency as one of the most effective and profitable measures to achieve the objective of sustainable development. We believe that in this way we ensure the co-existence of nature and the economy, to reduce the negative effects on the environment produced by the energy sector, to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, to increase energy security and to break the link between economic growth and the need to increase energy demand. In all of us in the SDP club, we believe that the proposer, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, contributes to this legislative proposal and increases the competitiveness of the national economy. Therefore, energy efficiency also plays a key role in the general energy policy. Croatia is estimated to lose around 1% of GDP for low energy efficiency. This is certainly a burden for both the economy and the environment. It is this law that will create conditions for the adoption of measures that will affect the reduction of energy consumption and the establishment of mechanisms to promote energy efficiency. The law also regulates the public sector's behaviour in the negotiation of energy services, prescribes opportunities for the co-ownership community to meet the conditions for investing in increasing energy efficiency, sets out a central place for coordinating all activities in the role of the national energy efficiency co-ordination body, introduces a system for monitoring, measuring and verification of energy savings, and prescribes the obligation to inform customers and all stakeholders on investment opportunities in energy efficiency. It will also create conditions for reducing primary energy consumption in production, transmission and distribution activities, and establish mechanisms to promote energy efficiency through institutional financial and other frameworks. Generally looking at energy efficiency is the sum of the planned and implemented measures aimed at using a minimum possible amount of energy in such a way that the level of comfort and production rates remain preserved. Simplification of energy efficiency means the use of less energy or energy to perform the same work, for example for heating or cooling of space, for lighting, for the production of various products, vehicles and other vehicles. In terms of energy efficiency, we mean efficient use of energy in all sectors of final energy consumption, that means both in industry and in transport, service activities, agriculture, but also in households. It is important to point out, however, that energy efficiency must not be considered energy savings. If we were to talk about saving energy, it would mean that in some way we give up a particular segment or that we're implying certain denials. In the case of efficient use of energy, we are not in any way violating working conditions and living conditions, but are currently reducing the amount of energy consumed. Furthermore, improving energy efficiency involves not only the application of technical solutions. Any technology, technical equipment or any new aid, no matter how effectively it loses all its properties if there are no educated people, unless there are those who will be able to serve it in the most effective way possible. We therefore believe it can be said that energy efficiency is primarily a matter of people's consciousness and their will to change established habits towards energy-efficient solutions. Already today in this hall, energy efficiency has been said to be a way of life. If we start from the point of view of rationalisation and thinking, then we know that both the EU and the Republic of Croatia have been aiming at reducing annual energy consumption by 20% since 2007 and until 2020. Whether this will be feasible, whether it will be necessary to introduce some stronger measures that these results will be achieved we will see, but in any case the implementation of European regulations in the area of the Republic of Croatia must happen and we are probably already late as many have said, but that is not an excuse to give up. For example, at its March sessions, the European Council stressed the importance of energy efficiency for reducing energy prices and costs. The EU has set minimum energy efficiency standards and rules for labelling and ecodesign of products, services and infrastructure. These measures seek to improve efficiency in all phases of the energy supply chain to its consumption, promoting the competitiveness of the economy that we in the SDP club support in every way. It is precisely in the European context that the implementation of the Energy Efficiency Act in the Republic of Croatia should be considered. We believe that a lot of knowledge and positive experiences, as well as warnings that well apostropheed the proposing and implemented them in our legal solution. We are reading the aim in order to launch a wider public, those policyholders either in units of local, regional or central government, market participants, and we want to introduce changes that would provide citizens with infrastructure. This infrastructure is manifested through products, through the energy system and, of course, at the highest level of energy efficiency. For example, the European Parliament recently also adopted a Resolution on the application and impact of energy efficiency measures in the framework of cohesion policy, which welcomes the new opportunities provided by the European Structural and Investment Funds and the Cohesion Fund in particular in the construction sector. He called on the European Parliament to raise awareness and disseminate information, and stressed the need to build capacity and technical assistance in this area. It is certainly also an opportunity for Croatia, because I think that through the discussions we have heard today we have agreed that education and enough knowledge about this area in Croatia is lacking. If there is anything else to say, it is certainly to point out that this law determines how energy services are negotiated in co-ownership communities, i.e. more residential buildings, through an energy contract of more residential buildings. It should be said that the proposed Energy Efficiency Act, among other things, regulates public sector behaviour to contract energy services, creating preconditions for the state to take the role of providing examples for the creation of a market for energy services. The law also creates preconditions for private capital to be used for investment with state assets and to launch an investment cycle at no additional cost to the state. It is important to stress that we are making efforts through this bill to take all the provisions of European energy policy on energy efficiency in an appropriate way into national legislation. This means that energy efficiency must have a particularly significant place as an economic and effective way of achieving Kyoto targets for reducing CO2 emissions of exhaust gases. It also has positive effects through security of energy supply, through competitiveness and the Lisbon Agreement, environmental protection and Kyoto Protocol obligations. This law is aimed at removing the most important energy efficiency barriers in Croatia. They are reflected in the lack of uniform and transparent procedures for the application of energy efficiency measures. The knowledge of the economic benefits of energy efficiency is also poor in the Republic of Croatia. The principle of cost assessment throughout the lifetime of investment is not applied, and therefore risks related to energy services are considered high which limits the availability of capital for such investments. Unfortunately, our fellow citizens are still undecided. I would say freely even skeptical of the justification of investment in private-owned facilities. There have been several examples here of how small projects can lead to a reduction in energy. For example, energy efficiency measures are expected to lead to savings on energy at an annual level of between 200 and 1000 euros per household. Citizens are afraid because they don't know, they're afraid because they don't have free capital and they don't have safe investors on the market who would be willing to follow them right in these projects that would mean a certain cost reduction for them and their families. It is therefore extremely important to include other ministries in the procedure for the adoption of the Energy Efficiency Act. For example, we believe that it is important to include the Ministry of Environmental and Nature Protection, that it is involved in creating a series of joint sublegal acts that will further regulate this matter. But what may be most important and what our citizens will most notice is just including in the promotion and information of citizens for energy, I would say greener and more efficient Croatia, for all that is needed to ensure our natural resources, to ultimately ensure energy independence and at least partial independence. By legislative and by introducing a system for monitoring, measuring, verification, energy savings, we consider the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to be a significant step in the SDP club in the field of energy efficiency. For all of these reasons, the SDP club will support the adoption of the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88199	Thank you. And we're moving on to an individual debate. Comrade Branko Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88200	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, In the name of the Croatian Democratic Community club, Mr. Popiè expressed our position. I would still like to make a few more of my thoughts about this law that we have all established together that it has quality targets that stem from the commitments that the Republic of Croatia has made on the basis of the third energy package on, among other things, reducing electricity consumption by 20% or raising energy efficiency. It is certainly up to the Republic of Croatia to realise these objectives, and in order to achieve them, the reduction of consumption, or the rise of energy efficiency, is precisely possible in this sector. It is in buildings, in households where they are mostly, which are mainly the biggest energy consumers. Clearly, then, the law is perfectly clear and we support such goals. But we hold that with this law enforcement, these goals cannot be reached, they cannot be realized. The basis of this law is practically laid down in Article 13 of the Law, which provides for a system of energy efficiency obligations. A cumulative objective has been set to be met by the end of 2020. And this goal is achieved through the obligation of energy distributors to take measures to achieve these planned targets, which is what I said 20% reduction in energy consumption compared to the situation found. It is not clear, and it would be good for the minister to explain it to us all, because the law cannot determine how and in what way the distributors in which this law is laid down will force the end-user to execute his own building, whether it is public buildings, and then it applies to the Agency for Legal Traffic and Real Estate Intermediation or to co-owners in multi-state buildings can force them to move towards the realisation and implementation of this law as the distributor on which this law and lays down would not pay the penalty to the Environmental Protection Fund and energy efficiency because the objectives have not been achieved. Therefore, if the APN does not, for example, implement this programme of energy efficiency of public buildings, then the distributor is obliged to pay the fine to the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund because it has not been achieved, although this same distributor has no opportunity, no instruments, no tools, how and how the APN will implement the objective provided for in the law. On the other hand, the distributor does not have a tool to force tenants in multi-state buildings to go into the façade arrangement procedure, setting up the gaps, etc., etc. In order to reduce energy consumption, he does not have these tools, but because of that, if he does not achieve it, he will pay the fine and there will be a fine paid by the fund and I speak is not able to force anyone by this law or the law has found a model and method for how it can be realised. I suppose that since the distributor has no money to pay all this together, those obligations that will not be implemented through the implementation of this law that he will then clearly have to increase the price of electricity so that he can fulfil the obligations under this law. If I'm wrong, I'd like the minister to deny me because I think it's such an alarming situation that we're making a commitment to this law and the one who takes that commitment in no way can solve and implement what the law has imposed on him. It's on one side. On the other hand, during the implementation of the public debate that was carried out under this law, distributors themselves said that they could not be responsible for the consumption of energy by the end-user but that only suppliers could do so because they do not have any information as to how much and how much consumption in certain buildings of electricity that they sell practically electricity to large ones and those who distribute electricity should be bound by such punishment if it was not realised by law as it is and envisaged. The more we in this House have passed the Energy Act which we have established that once again by implementing the third energy package in the energy system there is a manufacturer, there is a power transmission, there is a distributor and there is a supplier. Why the bill promoter chose the distributor is not clear to me. It would be quite appropriate if he set out to do so that he then identified the supplier as the one who sold electricity but also determined the elements, the tools, how and how he would be able to realise it. On the other hand, what is very doubtful here is that we are talking about the threshold, when approaching the arrangement of multiple buildings that it is necessary to make more than half of the residents agree to the realization of energy efficiency. The question arises what if, from a constitutional legal point of view, a property issue as far as is possible for someone who is not interested or does not live there or that apartment does not use it in any other way to force him to enter into this procedure unless it is interested but now on the side of that constitutional and legal aspect, but what if neither agreement nor half of the tenants are reached in those buildings. Then how are we going to approach the structure of that building and raise its energy efficiency? I know that there have been discussions on certain boards of the Croatian Parliament and doubt, that is, the question of such a formulation of the law that speaks of the supra-al majority but here I am going one step further, so I am asking what with those multi-state buildings where even half the tenants have no interest, do not want to, simply not to go to the façades or any other way to implement this law. On the third hand in numerous cities in Croatia that are under protection or UNESCO or in any other way protected by conservatives that will approach the realization of façade arrangements is also one of the very important elements that we do not have an answer to. I am many times in this House when a Business and Investment Monitoring Centre was established in the energy sector asked the Government to, given that I do not see the purpose of this centre, that one body that was established in the Republic, that at least the Government, that we have mercy on us fellow MPs so that it shows us what that centre has done in its three-year work, how much investment it has made. It contained a large obligation in the section relating to the arrangement of facades and public buildings that had not been famously finished with the collapse, debacle, etc. Well, we probably also did it because he didn't implement a major project of this government under this law, that is, from the law that precedes this law. Now we return it back to this law as a national coordinator who will monitor whether the counties and large cities are bringing forward action plans and whether these action plans are based on which this law rests whether they are quality-made, whether their implementation will enable the law itself to be implemented. I therefore believe that there have been better, more invited, more specialised state bodies and agencies and funds that could, given the professional equipment, given the human resources of the team, we are better monitored by action plans brought by counties and large cities than by the very centre that has not shown itself. And if I'm wrong, it would be good for the government to know how much it is and what it's done to that Energy Sector Monitoring Centre since it was founded. And one more thing, for a relatively short law that has 47 articles to pass on to the Committee on Legislatives as a boss by thorn with so many nomotechnical errors, with so many false formulations, it's the least that should be done because of these, because of these nomotechnical errors he would have to go to another reading because it's too much for so few articles, an amendment by the board that the government goes to another reading. Thank you, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88201	Thank you. The government can't go, but Parliament can, and you know what you have to do. Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88202	And what's it worth when the government won't hear this minority's appeal in the House, so vice presidents say something that isn't real. Well, let people also know that you're implementing a policy today that, well, has led us to these results in the economy where we are. Comrade Bačić, you were talking about a new law that I agree absolutely needs to go to another reading. So why do we bring such an important law and worry with one reading, we don't have time for another reading, what have we done just so far when we haven't been able to write it proposed before? On the other hand, it's about punishment. So I'm asking a question, so who should be paying the fines? Well, first of all, you have to pay the fines of the state, is the mass of your buildings, so I'm talking about schools, police administrations, stations, and all those facilities they own, they still don't dream of doing any projects. So I'm just going to give an example of my school in Požega-Slavon County, more specifically in Pleternica. It's a big school where there's a thousand students. By yesterday, they were warming up on the mammut, so watch out for the mammut. Now they're heating up on the gas and we're doing everything, exactly the local self-government unit, and they're doing the most of these projects now that the law allows, we're doing everything that we can to make sure that no matter what it's owned, we're reducing the state's cost. They don't know anything about it until yesterday at the mule warmed up. Imagine a school of a thousand students costing it. Therefore, they need to pay first, so they need to pay first, so they punish all of us entrepreneurs and the state is the biggest culprit for everything. They pay nothing and no one, they're free of everything. So here's the thing, I'm talking about my Pliernica, until yesterday's lube, so he needs to be charged, to the state, to the Ministry of Science and Education, and where are the other buildings? We have a nakarada from the police station, next to the building in which we invested 12 million kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88203	Thank you very much. But this wasn't a replica of my colleague Bacic, because he never spoke of it at all. Replication response, Branko Bacic. You'll replicate the presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88204	Thank you, Vice President. I agree, counterpart Lucic, I think that if the government really wants to pass the right law that it can today during the debate, and the deputy minister proposes to go to another reading. Not only is it possible to respond to a large number of comments that are truly justified, but it is the aim of all of us that this law, as we have all said, has good intentions, well-set goals at the end and the obligation for the Republic of Croatia to meet certain obligations that it has made by joining full EU membership and, on the other hand, that indeed, to citizens who are end-users of electricity reduce electricity bills. Such a bill makes this good intention and goals, which are unfortunately not to be realised because the law is in many parts of it inconclusive. You yourself asked that the state, by this bill, determines the obligation of a particular company, these are electricity distributors, that in case the law is not implemented, they are practically punished. It would be good if the state had prescribed the way, the model and the method according to which it was first responsible, and then if it fulfilled its obligations, then that distributors or energy suppliers should be obliged to implement this law. And not in this way, my care goes to another. This law thus transferred the one obligation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Republic of Croatia, to individual legal persons who are energy distributors in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88205	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88206	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you mentioned the Legislative Committee, I am the vice president of this committee, that I have, by any chance, experienced this as a legislator of the law of shame, not knowing if I would hit my way out of the constituency building. But it's not only the promoter's fault, fortunately we have a Committee on Legislative and Good Services because the office, the government's office, is not doing its job properly. A law like this would never pass, the government's law office that works there. But unfortunately, it doesn't work. Because we're just playing laws with pilot projects, but the law is for God's sake, it's a law, not a pilot project. The pilot project is an experiment and laws cannot be experimented with. And this is something that is most necessary, which is necessary, which is completely justified. We're confusing and vague, and we need it justifiably. And it can be done better, not better, it can only be done right because this is not good. Imagine you have someone who understands little process technology, who understands accounting, who understands VAT law and all the other laws, then knows that this law is not enforceable and knows that it is not clear. How can you if you have an entrance as an entrepreneur, a Styrofoam, buy a Styrofoam, buy an iso of glass you mentioned, and that's your entrance. And the way out is, what, if you're going to charge for electricity, how are you going to invoice the Styrofoam and the façade service? You're charging for something you didn't do. As possible this and how it is possible that if one person works an x building, a facade on a new one, it must pay VAT within 60 days at the latest, and you work or a person y on the reconstruction building she can pay the VAT for 10 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88207	Thank you very much. Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88208	I agree with my colleague Maric. I do not know the answer to your replica and your question, and I do not know how both the Deputy Minister and the Government will answer your question, which is quite logical, that someone who is now managing the VAT pay building within 60 days, or pays the bill within 60 days, and someone who goes into that procedure can pay for the next 10 years. But when you mention the funds and the financial part of this law, it is incomprehensible to me that this law, which must implement energy efficiency in all public sector buildings by 2020, should not be provided for in the state budget. I must admit that, as much as I try and understand that the costs, the construction costs that will allow the building's energy efficiency to be raised will be paid and refunded and reduced by energy bills because the building will be more energy efficient, that it will allow savings in the state budget for taxpayers to pay those same bills, but that not one building in the public sector will need... more funds than it will be saved through energy efficiency, it is not acceptable, it is not logical. And I therefore believe that in that part of the understanding of the weight of this law to raise the energy efficiency of public sector buildings, it was necessary to come a little more seriously and to define how much this building enters into this law, how much funding it will require and how much funding it will then need to secure in the state budget, and not simply say that it will not need additional funding in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88209	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88210	Comrade Bačić, you mentioned the action plans of the county units of local self-government and the centre that you say has not been shown. And this government and we all knew together already, not to say for months, but for years that the EU directive must be incorporated into our legislation and now we are in a position to bring the laws of this type into an urgent procedure. And the propos and what he mentioned and his colleague dances along with the wind power situation, with signed contracts, investors, with funds invested in measurements in Fužine somewhere over 5 million kunas, in the municipality... about 7 million kunas with integrated action plans in the county, directly the ministry halted those projects and they did not work. Although that referendum, you wrongly said, it passed because the citizens of the Fužine's options were for, most of it. So, directly by a directive from the ministry, it was kicked out of the Primorje-Gorski County spatial plan and these investors and Italians and the Germans launched judicial disputes to compensate for their costs. And the proposal of seriousness, when we talk about this kind of law-making, by emergency procedure, that we don't say everything that should be harmonised so that they can be implemented in that part of how much it will cost, and not by adopting a fine is about a million and 800 euros a year, and the proposal that it will be practically for the government free of charge and that no means should be provided.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88211	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88212	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Thus, Col. Klaric, a programme, Green Development of Croatia, was adopted in its own time, which also meant raising the energy efficiency of buildings. This project, which the Government gave up on, I don't know for what reason, but in one part could have been complemented by this law, and this is the possibility that, since we don't mention the owners of buildings here, so those who did their own buildings, and these owners are very much in Croatia, that they can be controlled by their own buildings through a single credit line, and that they can be provided with support in a single credit line, so that they can also be provided with support, as it is possible for the owners of buildings in multi-state buildings, the owners of apartments in multi-state buildings, because this law includes public buildings, for which the regulation is responsible for legal traffic and... real estates, we also included multi-state buildings that will be arranged if more than 50% of the owners decide that building was built. However, here we do not mention the owners of buildings that built their own buildings, which are generally both low energy efficient, why did this law not allow the Green Development Programme of Croatia and these people living in their buildings with favourable loans with the support of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund and enable them to contribute to these objectives set by this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88213	Five minutes on behalf of the HDZ club, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88214	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, we didn't mean... 5 minutes, but since the Proposer decided not to comment on anything that we put forward in this debate, and this example of how to constructively discuss it in order to achieve as high a quality legislative proposal as possible. I haven't heard a single colored sentence during the entire debate, let alone something political. Everything was professional, and if the applicant hadn't felt the need to answer questions, to so many ambiguities, then I had to react, and in the finale, look back at a few other things that the law shouldn't allow itself. The law must be necessary and it is the only thing that satisfies this law, it is indeed a need. But the law must foresee almost all possibilities, simulate models and simulate phenomena and remove pre-legal solutions of possible ambiguity. When so many difficult situations of legal solutions are presented in the debate, we do not even have a response or a comment. I don't know, it's not just underestimating the debate, it's underestimating the law, it's all of us. It cannot be the law or the law of someone's toy, Croatia must not be a toy. So when are we gonna finally pass one real law in this assembly so we don't have to be ashamed of him? Let's once pass a law that we don't have to be ashamed of how we voted it and how we brought it. And I'm ashamed every time it's unclear and if it's not defined and you don't know why it's so defined, which is what was meant to be done. And we emphasized a few articles, no reactions, no answers. That means it doesn't matter what kind of law it's gonna be, it's only important to bring it in. How is it possible to amend the VAT Act, how is it possible to amend the second law? That can't happen. How can the law favour certain groups in relation to other groups engaged in the same activity? How is it possible to bring accountants, and these are the most valuable and precise persons in the Republic of Croatia, they are allowed in the lime of every conto? But the one who doesn't understand what a conto he'll book whatever he wants. But how is someone gonna book something that's not in the front door, how? How is he going to invoice something he doesn't charge? He invoices the Styrofoam and charges the energy. Maybe that's possible, I don't think so, but if it's possible, then I'd like to hear how it's possible and who's going to order it and tell the accountants to book it like that tomorrow. It can't be done. No one's gonna book it like that. And then we will organize seminars of various kinds, pay entrepreneurs seminars, quote that we should hear eventually, later there will be an amendment and an addition of the law, and there will be explanations so that there will be a symposium, new costs to prove to someone that he can interpret the law because if someone is unable to understand, then we have to pay someone to explain how the law is worth it. Well, the law is only good if everyone understands it, not that anyone who is the most educated should understand it. I don't understand this behavior, especially because I say all the suggestions said by my colleague Popioč on behalf of the club where he made a series of remarks that were both technical and professional nature, so from fellow Bačić and all the replicas that there was no need to look back at such proposals that were only useful. I don't know, if I'm talking wrong, I'd like to hear that I have a chance to discuss it because this is the place to argue whether it's wrong or not. If it's wrong, we'll stop right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88215	Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88216	Thank you very much. I fully agree with my colleague Marić, and I ask myself a question, and what we MPs here on this side today are doing as an opposition, for which these discussions that last up to 20.00 hours may be longer with constructive thinking, while at the same time that no one listens to or rather says nothing is being done. Well, of course we are all concerned that some people who are in the ministry today with all due respect and you, Deputy and Minister and all those people who work there, respect your knowledge of energy, but I guess we are here in this House to try to reach the best solution for Croatia with common forces, common thinking. You yourself spoke about Croatia's energy development three years ago by coming to power.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88217	Who are you replicating to?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88218	I'm replicating my colleague Maric, but... And Mr. Maric was talking about inconsistency, and I'm talking about inconsistency that you're not just listening to this side today that's in opposition that's very much about energy. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] So why are we sitting here and what these discussions are going on for all night long? Therefore, Mr. Maric, these bombing announcements that the government announced at the beginning of its mandate, you can see for yourself that there is nothing from Omble, from Plomin that there is nothing and nothing in the energy system is actually done. Therefore, their strategy and development is based only on their thinking which is insufficient, and this is fatal for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is not being listened to by the other side.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88219	Goran Maric responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88220	Thank you very much. A fellow Lucic, the task of each parliamentary representative should be to take part in the debate on any legal proposal under his profession, the training to contribute to a better solution. And I can never understand that someone would not consider something that is good and quality and that improves the situation, no matter who says it. But if we were to analyse the situation today, no one from the ruling coalition individually spoke about this bill, no one had even replicated any suggestion given to this law. That means they agree with everything that's wrong. I agree that the law is passed, but I don't agree with him being like this. But whoever answers, I respect what you said, I respect both the deputy and everything in the ministry, I respect every man, but I don't respect his unquality. Parliamentarians answer for the quality of the law, only they are called, no one else, and they are underestimated at every step, so today we witness underestimation. And it is underestimating that the deputy minister has a greater coefficient than the MPs and that it is known without speaking of other privileges. And then even when it comes to making something that's good for Croatia, which is good for people, for the people of Croatia, then it's kind of like playing with each other. Unfortunately, I have to repeat what my colleague said are good pilot projects, but not as legal solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88221	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88222	Comrade Maric, you said a sentence I don't understand this behavior. I am much shorter than you here in the Parliament and I have indeed seen this behavior that and the lady standing behind this pay phone chosen by this House told the parliamentary representative to remain silent. The other day, we heard from the attorney general who told the lawyer he had to apologize to. Today, you talk about it, and we can read in the newspaper how many MPs are and how they behave and how they behave. But when I speak of this law and warn of what is not good in it, it should be passed, it should have been brought long ago. On 22 July, the European Commission launched a procedure and sent a letter to the Government of the Republic of Croatia because they failed to comply with the EU directive and legislation. We are now in 10 months and in this way as a series of laws so far under the emergency procedure of the Business Infrastructure Act by emergency procedure, after six months we change it because it is not good, and we have warned the same thing. Now the Strategic Investments Act is supposed to be going into some kind of change, too. This one will also now be inconclusive precisely for these reasons that you and all of us here have been well-intentioned because the law of this type should be passed. Together, we must agree that this part of the story about energy efficiency should finally be launched throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88223	Replication response, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88224	Thank you very much. Comrade Klaric, we have listened here and not shared a political party in power, but we have listened to no matter who is in power that we will solve in walking. Nothing in walking can be solved if it's the law. The law must provide for, and if someone seriously wants to do the job he must simulate, he must know exactly what is expected and simulate the situation, analyse and simulate what awaits him in every situation. Any legal solution to see what it means in practice. And if it's clear what it means in practice then it can go, but if it's unclear, and it's unclear here at least most of what sits here. Here are at least 7, 8 articles and those of the most important that are implementing nature, not declarative, but implementing nature. And the most important thing is law enforcement. So how's it going to be? So it's necessary, we need it, at all costs, and it won't be feasible. Well, we'll see when we show that it's inconclusive, then we'll change and supplement, and we won't listen to you. That's why Croatia is here because of such a pilot project and because of the laws, it acts like toys. Unfortunately, I do not know a single law that has been passed in such a way that a serious country that cares for its dignity should bring it to its people. And it's time to stop! This was an ideal situation to hear, to react, to refer to another reading And in a month, we have a real law that works. [[Breathes Zgrebec: Branko Bačić, replica.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88225	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Maric, you have asked the right question, which is why none of our questions are answered. Here I am now going to repeat these three questions to be answered by the Deputy Minister. The first question is why and how does the Republic of Croatia plan to establish the obligations of energy distributors that if all buildings in the Republic of Croatia, especially in the public sector, do not establish energy savings, the penalty will pay the same distributor. Let me explain to me what the connection between his obligation is when he has no instrument to implement it. The second question is any sanctions will be imposed by the Government or APN if buildings in the public sector are energy-efficient, no energy service and energy efficiency will be established. That's another question, that's supposed to answer. Thirdly, how and how the state budget will pay for energy efficiency works if the funds are not secured in the state budget, and says the law that these funds do not need to be provided. Here are the three very short and clear questions we expected the deputy minister to answer, so perhaps they would accept that answer. This way, on the three most important questions this law determines, we have not received an answer. So what we have already said in our introduction would be good for the government to evaluate this on its own until the second reading and prepare the answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88226	Goran Maric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88227	Thank you very much. This first question you asked me to answer reminds me as if I had to pay the fine because you're not tied up in a car. Something like that. Second, the punishment would have to be paid by one who deliberately, knowingly did not fulfill what was expected of him and what was imposed upon him. But he can't pay the penalty of one who can't have any effect on the obligation he's prescribed. As far as the government's sanctions are concerned, the government should be an example in everything, in communication, in quality, in conduct and in example and in renewal. The government would have to pay double the fine if it didn't respect what it imposed on others, twice, as an example. Because twice in civilized countries, one who repeats the same mistake is punished. As long as it lasts, Croatia insists that it does not renew, and imposes on privates who, at the same time, have left their policies without a job, without receiving, that they cannot pay even the loans. And thirdly, it is incomprehensible that the budget does not need to provide funding for something that will be such an investment. What kind of math is that? What kind of math is that? I don't know. Maybe some night school we'll get into, and we'll find out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88228	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a proposal of the Industrial Strategy of the Republic of Croatia 2014-2020. Goodbye. Session interrupted at 20.09 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88229	Next is the Final Proposal of the Energy Efficiency Act, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 708. The debate on the text of the final draft law is over. The government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments within the business period and became an integral part of the final draft law. The amendments were also submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the representative of the Commissioner-in-Office, Alen Leveric, of the Deputy Minister of Economy, to show himself about the amendments of the Committee on Legislatives. Amendment number 1 article... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88230	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88231	I didn't hear. Everyone's taking it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88232	Everyone's taking it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-15-0.u88233	Thank you very much for becoming an integral part of the final bill. I am voting on the final draft of the law. I'm asking you to vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 82 votes in favour, 9 abstentions and 24 against the adoption of the Energy Efficiency Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. We continue to work on the established agenda. It is on the agenda: - Proposal for an Industrial Strategy of the Republic of Croatia in 2014-2020, the Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received a proposal for a strategy. When adopting a strategy, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, Articles 194 to 202. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The discussion on the strategy was conducted by the Committee on the Economy, the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Economy Ivan Vrdoljak. Here you go, Minister.
