ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u77774	Dear Mr. President, I'd like to ask for a word on behalf of the Croatian Party of Retirement Club or... Can I have a word?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u77775	Look for a break, if you don't need a break, if you know what to do with your club, then you can go to the pay phone right now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u77776	Thank you very much. Mr. President, can I correct myself? I'm looking for a break to warn...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u77777	Please, complement your colleagues, do not correct yourself. Tell me why you're looking for...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u77778	Okay. Excuse me. I'm supplementing. I'm looking for a break to talk about the problem of a lifetime severance institute, that is, the purchase of a pension where 3,800 people from this month on will be left without part of life's severance and that I want to warn that the government and the state can save that institute.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u77779	All right. Silvano Hrelja. Gold shower.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u77780	For the same reason we're looking for the same break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u77781	Okay. In accordance with the standards in the Croatian Parliament, Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the club, please. If you haven't woken up, I'm gonna stop by at the beginning of the session. Here's your colleague, Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u77782	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In December last year, the Croatian Parliament adopted the Life Retribution Act, i.e. the collection of pensions and most clubs and most MPs expressed themselves very favourably to the institute, an institute that defines the long-term safety of pensioners. Unfortunately, the law came 3 months too late since the retirement season is at the end of the year and the only society that does so at this time in Croatia, and the law will allow other companies to be set up, has come into financial difficulties, i.e. indifference. In front of them, the Institute has a great perspective because there is a need, there is a need to restructure public enterprises and in some ways there is an interest in going to early retirement, i.e. a full pension for more than 4000 700 people, the Institute can revive with such figures. At this point, it is not disputed who will be the owner of the institute, until now he was a private owner, it can become a state, the door is fully open, he can incorporate it into some of his funds that he has at the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. The key question is whether the state will define whether the institution will benefit or not in the restructuring process. Otherwise, there is also interest from companies and international companies operating in Croatia, that the institute is being used. What we're doing, if that institute fails, is that no one alive will ever benefit from it again. 3800 people are 0.38% of the total number of pensioners, but the fact is that it is 3800 people who were the only ones in Croatia planning long-term social security and that is the specific weight of this institute. The Institute is originally Croatian, registered as intellectual property and started from nothing, from zero, unlike what is today set as a requirement that it should be in basic capital, I don't know how many million euros, that there must be reserves, I agree. When it comes to doing so someone who is interested and who is at home in the financial industry, but the financial industry happened in Croatia in 2006, and this institute has lived since 1990. If we want to give up everything we've done, give up our tradition, everything that's originally Croatian, even though the previous governments have given up support to this institute, even though this institute has signed collective agreements, then forgive me, I don't know what we're doing or whether we're giving up our experience or whether anything that's importable is coming as a suggestion on our part is better. Some people said it looked like a pyramid, that when the company was exhausted until the end because the Regulatory Agency wrote in 2006 when the Regulatory Agency created that it was not in conformity with the laws, not with the laws of one law. However, when someone attaches such a label to you, your business decreases by two-thirds and you come into business difficulties. Nobody wants to hear the company's business plan right now. The rescue is possible. He doesn't need any kunas, he just needs one guarantee from the state that he'll be doing it. But the answer is gone and I don't think the state can put its head in the sand, and we can't put our head in the sand, that something that has the specific weight of long-term social security planning can't be left to fail so easily. These 3,800 people will be left without 200, 300, 500 kuna of the difference that the institute has compensated them for their penalization for going to early retirement. They will run out of it, they will survive, but never again will one such quality institute planing long-term social security in Croatia succeed. Some other job could be damaged, but you know the curse in the Croatian people, "Ottato, damn it." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u77783	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Zlatko Tušak on behalf of Croatian Labour Representatives' Club in the Croatian Parliament. Here you go, on the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u77784	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Yes, this is a classic example of how the state creates certain uncertainty in its own time if we go back a little bit to the past we can remember how it has very much advocated this part of the model, solving the issue of pensioners. Companies concluded certain contracts, and a significant part of it was being resolved in a way that allowed people to leave early for early retirement, thereby guaranteeing that they would be provided with a life-long pension through insurance companies not to be damaged. People accepted, they were somehow convinced that it would provide them with some kind of security in the future. And what do we have today slowly? We have slowly brought 4 thousand people into a very awkward situation that means a lot of 200, 300 or 400 kunas as much as they get the difference between the amount of early retirement and full retirement, but in a situation where we have to settle all obligations and knowing that the pensioners are in the worst situation then we are just creating one total uncertainty for that group of people. The state needs to find a way out of this situation. First, to restore trust, not create a certain mistrust for people. Is the pension reform being implemented in a way that the current government says it will not extend the working life for retirement, but the EU's pressure is probably under this pressure to agree to do so and to extend the working life. The situation in the total Peace Fund is quite problematic for the budget. Now, even societies that have somehow come into contact and in some ways help these people to pay for that part of the money, the pension differences will go bankrupt and these people will permanently lose that right that they are guaranteed. It is clear that such a vision is not good, that the state here because of these 4,000 people, and also because of all future opportunities and opportunities to acquire an internship or in some way a model that would be valid here in Croatia should be created certain security, and the security is within that that when these people decide on a particular model of retirement, they have at least this small income guarantee that they can provide themselves and possibly their wife or spouse with some future that will provide them with minimum standards so that in those late years they can sort of overcome all the problems they face today, which is the issue of paying high-level directors, that I do not say when the winter period comes they can't go forward and most of the pensioners are among those 315 thousand who have blocked accounts in a very invisible situation. And with this if the government doesn't come up with a certain solution here to save itself and restore trust for these 4,000 pensioners who might lose that income, then I'm afraid that the citizens will have nothing more to do with their future than they should have in that time and in their late years, and not to struggle with how they will survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u77785	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, I understand your efforts, your intervention, and I even understand the problem you're talking about, but I think that in some way, don't take this as an evil, alibi performance. The business opportunity for these things is clear, suggest a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament or the whole amendment and addition of some law. So now you've brought the Parliament to know ad hoc about something others don't need to know or know because everyone doesn't deal with every matter, every political issue. So I would now ask you who appeared on behalf of this problem, on behalf of the Croatian party of pensioners in the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament to finalise some paper, some document like this comes forward. Please, nice. And now we're moving on. ... Well, you haven't answered. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But we're not discussing a colleague of Cain's. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If you'd called, there's no reason I wouldn't let you perform like others. Excuse me. We're starting a plenary session on the established agenda. - Final proposal of the Labour Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 606; The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of the Law. Article 194 to 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership. You received reports from these working bodies of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Labour and Pension System Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83527	Thank you very much, Mr. President, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Today we are talking about a Law that affects our daily life and work as well as society as a whole. This Law concerns not only workers and employers, this Law concerns society as a whole. It concerns those who are currently unemployed, who of this law and all those laws that we have passed in this House and all the policies we implement, they expect to get a job and earn a living. On the other hand, it concerns those persons who use maternity, parental rights, as regards young employees at a specified time, employees through temporary employment agencies, so all those who are at risk on any basis, whether they do not have a job or are stuck in flexible forms of work. Today we are talking about a law in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been intensively negotiating with the social partners for a year and a half if we are counting on those first changes over 2 years. We've had hundreds of meetings, thousands of pages of text, and you've got the final bill before you today. The time invested in the creation of a new Labour Act confirms that the task that was before the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the social partners to come up with a reform of labour legislation was not at all easy but highly challenging as for any changes to the Labour Act that took place in our country. On this occasion, I would like to thank the social partners for the patience and effort they have made in the drafting of this Law as well as the constructive proposals and remarks. We have not reached consensus but we have achieved in certain parts of the Law consent. And what is important is that we agreed that this law will be closely monitored by the social partners and the government, that we will establish mechanisms, the impact controls of this Law and that together we will monitor what this Law will bring into society and what effects it will have. We all know the impact of the economic crisis on the economy and on the labour market and the vast majority of citizens feel the consequences and deal with them as they know and wash. Jobs are lost, wages are reduced, many citizens do not receive wages in time, other material benefits and rights can only dream. The job and the pay became a privilege. It is not Croatia that workers in Croatia deserve. The goal of this government is to reverse negative trends, preserve jobs and get workers out of the world of illegal work. To save jobs is the main motive of changing this law, to save the job is something that benefit not only to the worker but to the whole society. The aim of this Law is to preserve jobs, not to reduce labour rights, and this Law did not reduce labour rights. The aim of this Government is to ensure a favourable business climate and to enable employers to operate more easily and efficiently and not to burden them further, and we did not do so with this Law. We didn't put any extra pressure on the labour price. Although reforms of labour legislation in other Member States of the European Union have been carried out primarily in order to cost labour, lay down workers and further flexible labour relations for Croatia did not go that way. This law doesn't go that way. The reform of labour legislation in Croatia was primarily aimed at simplifying all those procedures that the employer must face when conducting restructuring. To this day, we have witnessed that such procedures last for several months, which resulted in job closure and even that part of the business that had the chance to succeed in the market and should have been saved. Amendments to the Law of the existing, or the Final Proposal which is before you have shortened and simplified collective redundancy procedure, have introduced arbitration in replacing the consent of the Working Council to the cancellation of protected categories of workers. The employer’s obligations in cancelling work contracts have been simplified, the period of cancellation has been accelerated, without reducing the right to the duration of the notice or the right to the benefit of the severance. Protection against the cancellation of certain protected categories of workers and workers such as pregnant women, parents using maternity and parental rights, workers' representatives, etc. Administrative procedures such as e.g. have been reduced. The development of an extra-worker programme, the application of overtime work to work inspect work, the application of work at a separate place of work, will allow for simpler employment and finally open the possibility of working from home, to enable the development of the labour market. Prevention has been strengthened, and reduced employer repression due to violations of the labour law provisions that are not socially harmful. This law is finally becoming a preventive law, not a repressive law, and it is one of the remarks that we had in our discussions with the European Commission that our laws, when we talk about the Labour Protection Act and the Labour Act, are too repressive and a little bit preventive. This law finally leads to labour inspectors finally being preventive labour inspectors, which will allow labour relations in Croatia to develop in a better way. In our consultations on the necessary reforms that needed to be taken towards the creation of a favourable business climate, employers often pointed to the strict provisions on the organisation of working time that made it impossible for employers to adapt their business to a short-term increase in labour intensity in order to keep jobs and meet orders in short time. The result of such a rigorous organisation of working hours was job cancellation, and thus job loss. Croatia is not in a position today to afford such luxury. We can't afford to lose our jobs. This law goes after it to preserve jobs and that is its main objective. However, the government's commitment to the workplace was also to protect the health and safety of workers from overwork and to enable workers to reconcile professional and family life and, as you can see in the provisions of the law, certain anchors have been introduced to enable that part to be reconciled. We have therefore introduced in the law restrictions on the duration of work at the weekly level, at the level of 4 months and at the annual level. The final draft of the law has enabled an unequal schedule of working hours, we have more flexiblely arranged overtime, and we have recognised the specificities of individual branches of activities such as seasonal activities, which will achieve the appropriate flexibility than the arrangements of working time. We believe that by amending the provisions on the organisation of working time, we have succeeded in achieving adequate balance and transparency in regulating working time, which will have an indirect impact on the reduction of labour costs. Only such a system of working time organisation can ensure effective monitoring of the application of the provisions of the law in practice, and thus protect workers from excessive work. Croatia also faces the problem of high unemployment today. Once unemployed, workers find it difficult to return to the world of work. We have recognized that flexible forms of employment are one of the ways in which unemployment can become employed again. For example, about 5% of employees of temporary employment agencies are constantly employed by users, so a logical step was to enable these workers to work longer than limit the duration of work for a year, and this is a trend that exists in other European Union countries. The chapters of the law of cancellation, working time and agency for temporary employment have just been mentioned in the focus of social partners' talks after the debate was held in the Croatian Parliament on the draft labour law, and I think we have met the goal of the conclusion reached by the Croatian Parliament, that these amendments, this final draft of the law and this goal and the conclusion of the Parliament have been fulfilled. In order to combat illegal labour, additional work has been made possible for full-time workers and it has been possible to subdue workers between related employers, thereby preventing workers from being unemployed in case there is no need for workers to work in the case of a related employer. We had a lot of questions from workers who worked full-time, who worked black because they simply couldn't get a legal contract with another employer, and they wanted to have it. These amendments make it possible. I would like to point out some other articles, or parts of the law that we have improved and solved in a better way. I would like to point out that this law has increased the age of workers from 3 to 5 years of employment, strengthened the roles of working councils, improved the system of collective bargaining and regulated the system of expansion of collective contract in order to protect free competition, introduced the concept of business secrets and regulated the issue of strike. Although we have failed to reach a consensus on the whole package of provisions of the law, it seems that all parties are equally unhappy with the final outcome, it is confirmed that today there is a law that is particularly balanced and that was also one of the objectives of the Government to propose a law that will be considered to be particularly balanced. We understand that, at the beginning of the discussion of the new Labour Act, all interested parties had much greater expectations than in the way of settling certain interesting issues, and the final text of the content of the law is not satisfied or in some parts they are extremely satisfied. I think that's how we achieved that balance in law. Once again, I thank the social partners for their efforts together with us, and I can say that we have been very close to our views by working together, if not all the questions we have discussed. And what we agreed to continue the talks on the Labour Act, because it is one substance that is extremely alive, which is related to everyday life and needs to monitor trends in the labour market and respond timelyly to any changes to the law, any other mechanisms. The fact is that the Labour Act can be written in such a way as to fully satisfy the interests of one or the other party in a working relationship. However, if it is inapplicable then any legal norm becomes completely immaterial and unnecessary. We believe that this final bill is a law that is applicable, which will in practice lead to an improvement in relations, which will encourage the investment climate in Croatia and ultimately, together with all the measures that are being taken to create jobs. It is in our interest to have a law that will be simple in applying, tailored to the needs of workers and workers and practices so far, and that will provide employers with simpler business, and workers with the necessary safety and protection. Although it may seem at first sight that the reforms should have been deeper or should not have been done at all, the government is convinced that this Labour Law will give Croatia the necessary amount of flexibility of the labour market without hitting workers' rights. After the law is passed, the job is just beginning. We still have a lot of work to do. We are not simply required by the existence of a modern and high-quality legislative framework of the labour system, but by the legislative framework set to obtain the desired effects on the labour market and the adoption of this law. In this regard, we expect the social partners to be actively involved in monitoring the implementation of the law, because it is they who will live daily with this law. Finally, I would like to tell the workers in Croatia that they can be convinced that the commitment of this government is to ensure decent living conditions and working conditions for all workers in Croatia primarily through the preservation of jobs and protection against illegal work. There is no need to be afraid of the changes of the Labour Act, for the most protected will be the worker who has a job and who neatly exercises his labour rights, who regularly receives wages and who enjoys protection from employers. It is the job of this government to provide all workers in Croatia with the help of social partners. And this government will do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83528	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. And now we're going to listen to a dozen replicas and respond to the replica. The first replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83529	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates. Mr. Minister, you said in your opening statement that a consensus was reached on this law. I'm asking myself who? Because both trade unions and HUP are explicitly decided against this law. And then, logically, the question arises if they are those to whom this law applies, so those who create, who have jobs and those who work against that law, then for whom we make that law. And in short, it could be understood that the result of this law shows one thing that the government is unable to implement any reform procedure, and the result of this direct law is a reduction of labour rights. And what's the biggest tragedy is a very strange mathematical formula. So the workers' rights are definitely down. The employers say they didn't get anything, and the unions say the workers lost a lot. Well, then that's something that's mathematically incompatible, incoherent, and that's obvious proof that there wasn't enough hearing to solve some things. And I can even understand that you're getting into this with that one. But if the government couldn't accept the proposal about parents and quitting them and before going to maternity and after staying in maternity when the job went away then I really don't understand it, then it's definitely a confirmation that there was no will, no desire to agree on certain things.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83530	Replica response, respected Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83531	If you listen to the phonogram then you will see that I did not say that we have reached agreement, but we have reached agreement on certain parts of the law, and on some parts of the law we have not reached agreement and were both trade unions and employers on the opposite sides. I note that this law would be ideal if only employers and trade unions would bring it without the influence of the government, because it is a law that regulates the labour market. We, when we set out to negotiate then agreed and reached agreement with both trade unions and employers on the objectives to be achieved by this law. However, the way to reach these goals was not in line. So this bill is exactly what you pointed out, a proposal that is interestingly balanced, which will lead to an improvement in the labour market, which will lead to simplification in the labour market and make it easier for employers to operate. And on the other hand, as far as the protection of workers is concerned, it remains as it has been. As for the protection of pregnant women, we have accepted proposals that were in the debate and as you can see in the final proposal of the law, things are different than they were in the first draft of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83532	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the House, Representative Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83533	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So despite what the government claims, the Labour Act is neither guilty nor the cause of the current major economic crisis and huge unemployment in Croatia. And consequently, unfortunately, it will not bring either employment growth, nor economic recovery, which should be the main purpose of, of course, the government's actions because business and employment should be encouraged by better economic measures, not this way. Instead of the maximum consent of all social partners, you have achieved something about this law that is truly rare in politics. They're all against him. So both trade unions and employers. And now the question is, when are the main parts of the people to whom this law applies against, both workers and small entrepreneurs and medium-sized entrepreneurs and micro entrepreneurs and everyone else unsatisfactory and then it can't actually be called an interesting balancing that's an interesting balance in anything, is it? On whose behalf does the government represent, for whom does it do so? Because obviously not for all those to whom it applies. What is also a big problem is that the Government has not presented for any proposed amendment to the Labour Act an analytical basis from which it should be seen and put into effect what is the real effect and need of this change, which is why it is done and exactly what it will gain. That's unfortunately missing. And the fact is, in fact, this move is a desperate move of the government that, in almost three years of office, failed to find a solution to how to stimulate the development of the economy, they have no idea, a vision, and unfortunately, the World Bank said how to fix it, and then, in fact, their incompetence is somehow clouded by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83534	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83535	I know that's how it is in Parliament when you're an opposition, and then the law needs to be attacked. So I can just repeat some of the numbers we have at this point. At this point at the Employment Service there are 302,000 unemployed, the figure is dropping. We've opened 180 thousand jobs. That's one trend you can see. Whether this trend will continue or not, let's leave it to the statistics. So in statistics, we'll see that part. The aim of this law is to preserve jobs and the aim of this law is to get people out of illegal work to work legally in the Republic of Croatia. So that's what this law is all about. And when we talk about that neither side is satisfied, it means that we've been well balanced and we've solved things well. It means that both sides of this law see good things, some things don't see but it's normal when you're in negotiations on interest rights. Therefore, on the impact of this law, we will see this effect of the law in the future. What we have agreed with the social partners is to agree and see how much and how this law will have an effect in further work itself, i.e. to see how it will apply to the labour market. On the other hand, we have established a mechanism to monitor the effect of the Labour Act. We'll also have reports and then we can discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83536	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83537	Dear Mr. Minister, you said that the job and salary became a privilege in Croatia. I can agree with that. And then you continued to trouble yourself with one big problem, the payoff. I don't understand what kind of work law you've proposed has to do with a model, a possibility, a desire, the intention of this government to solve the problem of 53,000 231 workers working and not receiving a salary. You yelled for two years that this was a criminal offence until the examples of TIBO from Rijeka, TESU Uljannik, Club Adriatic, MID by order of 100% state-owned enterprises where workers work and do not receive salaries. So, by this law, the problem of non-payment pays is absolutely not solved, even making it difficult. For you have prescribed that the burden of proof is in the dispute and in the case of payment or payment of wages or the issue of certificates of payment of wages, that it is not paid to the burden of the worker and not to the employer. The employer sues the employer for failure to pay the salary or not receiving a certificate of unpaid salary and salary billing, the burden of proof on the worker is not on the employer. And you say you haven't reduced your labour rights. Yes, it is! The right of the worker and the obligation of the employer to the burden of proof is one of the basic rights of workers. You said further that even 5% of the agency workers had found a permanent job. Tell me, what about the other 95%? Aren't you worried about them? How many percent of the job he gets through the Employment Service? And extra work eight hours a week as a right worker. If you have introduced this as a worker's right, tell me why the employer's right to give consent, approval?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83538	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83539	Thank you very much. Just to correct myself for the first statement, so we didn't open 180 thousand jobs, we hired 180 thousand people. So to be exact, that's the largest number we've hired lately. When we talk about non-payment of salaries, this law does not regulate the part that is related to the payout itself. We'll be out very soon with a list of companies that don't pay their salaries. On the other hand, this law defines that the billing of wages is an executive document, and the burden of proof and all, so it is not the Labour Act that regulates it, therefore the Labour Act is the one that requires that these things be paid to the worker. On the other hand, labour inspection starts working in a different way. All these examples when we have, examples of not paying the wages, immediately as far as labour inspection is concerned, reacts. I think with a unique form of income, contribution and that OPPD form, we will have a very powerful weapon that we will be able to react to and as soon as it is determined that a particular company does not pay salaries to its workers. That is the problem, and we still have a lot to do on this problem so that there is no payout in Croatia, that there is no exception, not that there is a rule.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83540	Dear Representative Zlatko Tušak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83541	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, you've said two findings that one might agree with, but in part, the other cannot agree. And that's what this law didn't reduce labour rights, is that what I'm going to try to say in my replica that it happened anyway. And that first finding you said, that a job and pay became a privilege that I can agree with you, but when we talk about pay, then what awaits us in the future when this privilege is, and pays by what is offered in this law. For example, I will only take agency workers who have been able to work so far and up to 3 years with a proposal for this law give you the opportunity to work for up to 3 years on the same jobs, so after 3 years I can change jobs and continue to work. Will the workers get to your place of work? No, and there's still going to be a job privilege. And when we talk about fees, then you also reduced that possibility for agency workers because you had it regulated by the regulation even though it was so far regulated that agency workers had the same rights as those workers who rented those agency workers. We also have the judgment of the court, but you have adjudicated this judgment with this law, and in some ways you are opening the possibility for employers to regulate it with their rules, which means directly that employers will reduce those rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83542	The reply to the replica, respected Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83543	Well, I hope you and I can agree that the most important thing is to work, to have a job. Because having a job right now, in this number of unemployed people, this law must be responsible for all those who are at the employment office right now looking for a job. You'd better work instead of one year, and then go to the employment office after that, be in an insecure position, and then after two or three months, they'll take you back to another agency, and then you'll go back to the employment office, and then you'll be in an insecure position looking for your job, and then they'll take you back to another agency, and then you'll work again. Is it better to work like that or it's better to work for three years and then get the chance to stay with that employer as far as the employer is concerned? The agency labour market is extremely low in Croatia, and according to the latest data we have, only 11,000 workers worked in this million-and-a-half status as much as it works in Croatia. Therefore, we want this market to be arranged, that workers can quickly find a job, that through agency work the employer they work with and work with. With us only 5% in Europe, 20% remains with this employer. So, looking at it, looking at life, and looking at it, it's important that you have a job and that you deserve a salary based on it, so we went to this, this model. We haven't called the court's verdict, we've made it clear in this law what pay is and what is part of the wages that are contracted by collective agreement. Therefore, we did not adjudicate the court's verdict, and the court only interpreted one indiscriminateness that was in force until now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83544	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83545	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, I must first of all conclude that some time when we listen to you and your government colleagues as if you live in Austria or Finland and we live in another country, but we are all together in Croatia. And you are currently responsible for the management of Croatia, so I must tell you that it surprises your argument that this law, but also any jobs, will be kept. So we all need to understand in the 21st century, especially that none, unfortunately, of the world's most brilliant laws can be kept in jobs, but jobs are kept with quality economic policy, sound tax policy, attracting investment, support for the private sector, especially industry and production. Today, too, when we are a full member of the EU using EU structural funds. So all I'm listing is what your government hasn't done in the past 2.5 years, none of that, unfortunately. However, what laws can do, and laws can also protect people, of course you do not do the same. Because that is not so in these two years since you started destroying the economy, destroying both perspective and hope, tens of thousands of young people leave Croatia, unfortunately never easier. For all these reasons, we must finally be clear to you, neither unions nor employers support the law because these people understand it, both of which are here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83546	The reply to the replica, respected Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83547	So I hope you've read the law well and I believe it is, because you're in business as well, and you know that when restructuring takes 3 or 6 months because of administrative barriers, then after 6 months, the restructuring of businesses doesn't make any sense, and that's why businesses and businesses have failed and workers have lost jobs, so this law keeps jobs because restructuring will be faster and will give that healthy part of the company a chance to stay on the market. On the other hand, it also protects jobs because it allows between related companies workers to find a job and have a job at another company and instead of what is happening now that when there is no business in one company that then these workers lose their jobs and go to the Employment Office, they will now be able to stay working in another company of the related employer. So, yes, that's what this law does, so it keeps jobs. On the other hand, this law brings one positive climate in Croatia, that it can be invested in Croatia, that we are obstacles that were administrative in the law we removed and that in Croatia we can invest and that is the message of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83548	Dear Representative Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83549	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you said the best evidence and confirmation that this law is of quality because both sides are interested, dissatisfied. So who did you write it for? That no agreement has been reached, so then probably the government's agreement was reached only and that's enough reason that it's a good law. If the employers are not satisfied, the workers are not satisfied, then who is he protecting? And the law should and must protect the normal functioning of economic life. And what changed from the first reading that you introduced item 3 in article 10 to which you introduced the new institute of man to teaching? So far there have been machines on leasing, cars on Leasing, and now we have a workman on Leasing. It's probably what the unions and the workers insisted that it be inside, and these four months have put such pressure on you that you've managed to make it work. So it is not man who is a propred or a slave, nor is man imported in containers, nor is it customs, nor is he kept in storage, and this is equal to the slave. Is this law going to make it impossible... and the shameless layoff of workers like it happened the other day in Samobor around which the whole public was silent, no one was worried that a woman who had been fired in a special mental detachment because she couldn't, she didn't clean the courtrooms. And if she had a bad one and went home, she wouldn't have been fired. No one's even horrified on such a situation, let alone protecting that poor, sick woman. ... such a law... no, this law still works against man. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the number of employees, these million 554 thousand were employed in 2008 and in 2014, million 364, 190 thousand less employees in Croatia. I'm guessing you've reduced 190,000 new jobs from 190,000 employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83550	Replica response, respected Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83551	So when we talk about the number of unemployed, I've corrected myself and I said that we've hired 180 grand through the Employment Service which is the biggest employment since the crisis so far, so from now on, the largest number of employees through the Employment Service, so obviously that certain things are changing on the labour market, whether it's going to be a trend or not, we're going to leave that and see whether there's part of seasonal employment, but there are other trends. We'll have to see if we can wait until the end of this year and see if that trend is up or not. On the one hand, the law is such that it is balanced between the union's demands and the employers' demands. These are the opposing sides, what I pointed out was that at the beginning of the negotiations in this law we agreed that trade unions and employers would sit together and agree together on problems that could be resolved and to agree on a solution, but it failed, it simply failed to reconcile the views and this law part of the position we reconciled, so part of these demands that were related to the Parliament's conclusions we reconciled. We didn't agree, but we made peace. And that is why, since both sides are not fully satisfied with the law itself, it tells us that we have balanced the law and the law should be balanced when we talk about the Protection Act, the Labour Act, because it must make it easier for employers to function, but on the other hand, it must ensure the protection of workers and this law we have done so.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83552	Dear Representative Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83553	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So, Mr. Minister, you're talking about some things you've found agreement with union representatives, your conversations as visible from their memo, two hours before the government's meeting, you've sent them the Final Proposal of the Labour Act, it's underestimating, it's the demagogue of union leaders as well as the centralists, it's the demagogue you serve and commit fraud, not the social partnership with the unions. The second thing, as the trade unions say in the 10 essentials of this law disagreed with you and spoke clearly about it. It is the Institute of Temporary Indication of Workers to Related Employers, a fixed-time contract, agency orates of Leasing Workers, supplemental work, overtime, working time schedule, the right to a proportionate part of the annual vacation, the period of cancellation, the extension of the application of the collective contract and in transitional and final provisions. These are the 10 essential items of this law that unions and workers disagree with. They did not find an agreement, this is a matter in some segments of discrimination against workers, it is a matter of disenfranchisement and exploitation even contrary to the Directive 2008 adopted by the European Parliament, and I think it should be made clear how you think again and counter-European acquired rights and norms to work against Croatian workers?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83554	The reply to the replica, respected Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83555	So I think probably one of your HDZ colleagues should probably get up now to say from the employer's side that employers in this law don't see and what they think this law isn't well solved, so they'd see that it's totally conflicting attitudes. So the one and the other attitudes that we had in some matters were contradicted. On the other hand, we have, for both sides, a certain part of their arguments in force, and we have introduced it into the law. It is therefore something that is part of the negotiation process when we talk about the Labour Act. I'd be happy to hear from you now some other agent representing the employer's side if I believe there's someone who's representing, so you have to figure out which side you want this law to go to. We didn't want to go to the employer's side or the union side, we wanted to keep jobs, we wanted to get workers out of work on black and legal work, and on the other hand to ensure the safety of workers, and to enable the flexibility of working relationships and to enable employers to do better business. We agree with the 2008 Directive, which speaks of agency workers, unlike some other countries, and we set even greater criteria there than other countries do. Therefore, this law is in line with the directives and there will be no problem with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83556	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mladen Novak, new replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83557	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So Ministers I continue to hold that the needs for amendments to this Labour Act do not exist and simply used that old good experience 100 times repeated thesis no matter how untrue it becomes true, becomes generally accepted. This sounds like a bad commercial, but easier firing will keep us busy and preserve workers' rights. Well, it's true that whoever thinks a little bit about that sentence sees that sentence doesn't make any sense at all. Very often you use flexibility as something that is positive. Well, here's something I'll take for granted to read something to quote "Today it's often claimed that we actually need flexibility on the labour market, which is a euphemism for wage reduction," but it's not a demagogue politician from Croatian Labourists, it's a Nobel Prize from this year, which has won the Nobel Prize for Economic Sciences. Are you going to say that he's also a populist and demagogue and that he's talking about how Croatian workers would like him? That definitely means your weight is falling in the water. You said to keep workers from working illegally with this law. Remember, it's not long that you've been talking about the labour inspection, so isn't that their primary task? With this law, you will absolutely not do anything about it, and you are aware of it, and this is another mantra that needs to be said several times, so it will become generally accepted. I have to admit, I agreed with some of my predecessors when they said this law wouldn't mean anything to employers, but it doesn't mean anything to workers. You can, for example. Introduce that VAT is paid after payment has been made, That would help employers, but you don't want that. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83558	The reply to the replica, respected Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83559	Life writes laws and this law fits life. So life writes laws, so laws don't write life. You can write a law however you know and can if it's not applicable and doesn't fit life won't win success. This law is just about respecting what's going on in our lives. And it's not true, you keep talking about mantra to repeat something that becomes true then, you keep repeating that this law makes it easier for workers to relax. It's not true, what we're talking about, we're talking about restructuring companies when the company gets into difficulties. It took us six months for the company to be restructured at the time and that good part of the company failed and all went bankrupt instead of keeping a part of the workers working and keeping their jobs. And that's the goal of this law, to keep jobs wherever we can keep jobs. And the effect of the law you will follow along with us because we are introducing mechanisms as we will follow and we will have accurate insight into what this law has done and what this law has not done. What he didn't do will change because the law can fit life. You can make the most rigorous laws that have maximum protection of workers but you won't get a success if things are going to get worse. Therefore, this law did not go against workers, we did not reduce the protection of workers, we allowed employers to work easier. You forget one very important item of this law, which is in principle for small employers you care about, which is that in law, a large part of the violations that we cannot say are socially dangerous. you did not bring a proposal for an annual vacation going instead of in criminal provisions going into that part of the administrative measure. Thus, the law is very helpful.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83560	Thank you, Minister. Honorable representative Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83561	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Minister, it is obvious that no agreement has been reached from your presentation with the social partners, which is the key to the implementation of the Labour Law, not the alteration with the social partners who are unable to replicate anything from our galleries to your head. But your exposure reminded me of an event almost a hundred years ago, and it is about the Versailles Peace Agreement, and many think it was only about dispensing the borders of the great empires of Austro-Hungarian and German and Ottoman. But on the sidelines of this Treaty of Versailles, there was actually talk of work and dignity of a working man and exactly what we are discussing today and we are actually going to vote on Friday. Just then, in 1919, the International Labour Office was created, which then became the secretariat of the International Labour Organisation in Geneva. What I really want to emphasise in view of today's debate is the first principle in preamble to the establishment of this International Labour Office that says that lasting peace in the world can only be established on the basis of social justice, i.e. paraphrasing social justice is a stock of lasting peace in Croatia. That's why it might be better, and that's my suggestion for this law to go into third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83562	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83563	So if we were to respect maximum demands on one side or on the other, then the law would be supported by employers, it would be the best law but on the other side of the union would be absolutely unacceptable. If they respected the maximum demands on the other hand, employers would be absolutely dissatisfied and trade unions would be clearly satisfied. And is that possible, is it possible to make such a law that one side will fully cancel and then give the other side maximum rights. It is not possible, this is not the law that should be such, this is the Law that needs to be balanced, the Law that will respect part of the views on the one hand and, on the other hand, with a common goal of preserving jobs, extracting workers, those working on black draw them into legal work. And when we talk about consensus, look at Europe and European havens, we are obliged to consult with social partners and do so. But consensus if it is possible to achieve it is possible and if it is not possible then you must go this way which is balanced between one side and the other. It is clear that in these negotiations, when you negotiate, then clearly that both sides should assume part of their responsibility to sort of give in to the other side and find a common goal. In some parts of the law we have done so, in some parts of the Law we are not. For example, the unequal distribution of working hours over the 50 hours, we did not reach the end of the consensus but we approached the views of one side and the other. Therefore, we have achieved the goal that we set before us and the Law is balanced, interestingly balanced towards one side and the other. Access to this Act is not valid. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83564	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of the Nenad Dance, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83565	I thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Ministers, you were talking about the results, which is what this Labour Act is going to bring. However, the aim, i.e. the results of this Law, will be to reduce the protection of workers and their rights, easier layoff, employment or replacement of workers to new ones when we produce and discard this first one as an old cloth. The claim that workers are overprotected is not correct, the largest index of protection we have in Austria, Belgium, Germany, Finland, there is the highest security, the highest employment and the highest salary. Less wages, lower standards, less rights, harder to work with, young people leaving was caused by the birth of 39 thousand 600 children last year, that 19 thousand marriages were only concluded and that 5 thousand 900 divorces. We can also look for the reason in the Labour and Insecurity Act that you give this Labour Act and the message you send. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83566	Replica response, respected Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83567	So again we repeat the mantra that you repeat a lot then it becomes true. So this law does not lower workers' rights. This law, when we talk about severances, we haven't touched severances, when we talk about cancellation deadlines, we haven't touched deadlines, we've simplified procedures. And this law protects jobs, this law does not make it easier to fire. This Law, when we talk about restructuring, allows workers to preserve those healthy places, so instead of 50, they will remain 20 but will have a job and under the current 50 law no one will remain because the company itself will fail. What you're talking about doesn't solve this law, solves collective bargaining at the level of businesses, branches, and that's what this Law also promotes, promotes collective bargaining, promotes the strengthening of working councils, the participation of workers in working councils, that's what this Law does, but you didn't mention it. So what's the key to what you're talking about is collective bargaining because collective bargaining keeps the labour price, safeguards labour rights, and that's what Croatia needs to promote. We have collective bargaining quite well developed in the public and state sectors but we do not have it in the real sector, and this law goes towards strengthening the real sector, to have collective agreements there, and thus to strengthen the role of the working councils.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83568	Thank you very much. We have completed the replicas and answers to the replica of the presentation of the respected Minister of Work of the Pension System. Now do the representatives of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament Committee want to present their reports? They don't want to. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we usually go to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the club List of Independent Representatives in the Croatian Assembly to be represented by the respected representative Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83569	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. These days, in fact, there was a saying yesterday that in Croatia they can't make a change. It's a difficult finding, which means we can't go forward but be buried in fate and live that fate. I'd use one metaphor, which is a metaphor of black holes. We know how astrologers, physicists inform us that there are black holes in space that aren't inactive and that exist long ago, but we didn't know about them. And now it can happen that black holes exist in the systems, in the functioning of the institutions and in the Croatian Parliament itself, and those holes bother us not to get out of the crisis. These holes can be institutional characters that interfere with getting out of the crisis, and I think those black holes need to be detected and tried to get out of them. One of the, and yesterday there was a set of round tables, a new electoral law that in Croatia is one of the holes, these black holes that makes it impossible for the democratic state, the rule of law and the social state to function, that it is precisely electoral legislation. We will continue our efforts at the press conference today to discuss this problem because in the early 2000s, I spoke of the topic as a reason for the establishment of a true democratic state, a legal state and a social state. We're talking about it, but it's speech without cover. We must do something quite concrete that what we say really has weight, has effect and can be achieved a certain solution. There's so much in this opening statement, and Mr. Damir Cain will continue to discuss this topic with his contribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83570	You heard the introduction, now we'll hear what the club thinks about the draft labour law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83571	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament, Minister. Yes, today's biggest capital is to be healthy and work, and the greatest privilege is to work today, but where, in public service and from there, is to be started. Clearly, for honest work honest wages and wages must be condio son quanton for anyone who works, anywhere and we have nothing to discuss. When it comes to this law, however, it would be ideal for this law to be permanent, not like the Institute of Retirement, but in the case of a crisis clearly in a country where it is not possible to reach a consensus on anything and the law needs to be changed. It is clear that this law should be as realistic as it is so realistic, it must be based on an economic reality, it must encourage development, and not the same brake, and it should not, in my opinion, make a distinction that is now in operation or in the last 20 and so many years, between the real and the other side of the public service or the sector. The truth is that since the start of the crisis, to this day in the public sector, the number of employees has increased by more than 15, maybe 20,000. At the same time, we have heard in the real sector since the start of the crisis on the number of jobs here has been reduced by 100,000. And there's something wrong with it, the system is simply collapsing, not because of labour legislation, first of all I'm going to say for lack of courage to face real crime problems, not at this highest level, but at that lower, local, communal level, which should be added and the DORH's not at national level but at local level. The judiciary is a story for itself, etc., but one of the results of the crisis can certainly be attributed to the Labour Act. And it's perfectly logical, what we heard today, we get that unions defend their position, as it's also logical that the employer defends his position and the Parliament has to create some conditions, the Parliament should be some mediator to do first of all, that those who work have and that the working legislation does not discriminate on anyone, and least of all it does. It is clear to me that trade unions will primarily defend the position of the public sector, the public service because they are mostly recruiting their membership there, and employers have that freedom of employment, layoffs, but in some ways these sides need to be reconciled. Neither one, nor the other, can fully dictate the conditions of this labour legislation. What are the conditions of business in the Republic of Croatia? I'll say they're probably unique in the world. I claim that a small craftsman is ten times harder than a worker who works with them believed in it or not, but that's how I see it. And our society just collapsed. Everyone's looking for a job in public service, in the public sector, in some utility company behind which is local self-government, state or if I don't know who. And that's certainly not good. The large ones are protected I will say in a unique Croatian way, even through the institutes of pre-fashion settlements. Many of them remain in debt. The state's going to meet them, giving them another chance, and the kid's falling apart. In the west, when it's over, I don't know about bankruptcy or starting all over again without a single rabbit wearing a suit and shoes on or ending up in jail or shooting, and there's a lot of people going on where they left off. And 98% of people who have finished or passed pre-flight simply with more pictures, with more cars, with more real estate continue to run their companies. And there's something that needs to be done. When we talk about this law, I just want to quote something. Mr Mrsic said earlier that flexibility of working relationships means one of the objectives of the law to preserve jobs, reduce labour costs and prevent work on black. What was most controversial about that first reading of the law we had recently was a work-time arrangement, a job-out and a job at temporary employment agencies. With this version, workers and agencies will be more protected. He will have the right to union association, but instead of one year as it was in the first version he will be able to work for as long as 3 years through the agency. The news is that in future workers outside full-time they will also be able to work with a new or connected employer and a maximum of 8 hours a week. I don't see the work on Leasing here. Unlike the first version that passed the Parliament's first reading, the border was lowered from 56 hours a week to 50 hours. This refers to unequal working hours and overtime. And when it comes to employees who are additional or who will be working extra for another employer outside of work hours, for example, one will not know a waiter who works full-time for 40 hours a week for another eight hours or eight hours a week, that's right. Now we have the union's objections. First, it starts with how long a week can last. They have these certain objections. It's my basic message that work must be paid. What bothers me only in this law, not only but what bothers me the most is simply easier to give birth to what these unions specifically warn and I think that through amendments or through the amendment of the Government it should simply be warned about. Clearly, trade unions also talk about the work of another employer, then the remuneration of workers, judicial termination of employment, etc. On the third hand, we have a normal Croatian employers' association that says that they are particularly apostrophe, interestingly small employers who say they can hardly meet the complex, expensive demands of all these procedures, stress the volume of administrative operations in employment, cancellations that exceed the capacity of small companies and force them to do most of the working time by red tape instead of work. And that's the same thing we have to change, and not then send the inspections and that little twist where you can only maybe get a job drastically permanentally punished. They say it is completely incomprehensible that the government in the field of labour, labour relations is not ready to support the development of a small economy. I say, micro subjects have less and less chances of surviving on the Croatian market, that's true, and the new ZOR protects the unemployed from firing jobs that won't get a chance. And they say the Labour Act is obviously not worth the same to all employees in Croatia because it does not cover civil servants who have one special law, and I will say a special status. The point is probably, not likely, but from grief should begin that work must be paid anyway, for honest work honest pay. I've had a good friend who's been living in New York since the '70s. He also says how he started. Today there are 50, 60 apartments in New York and today lives very, very well from rent. But he says I started doing the least paid jobs and I always did two, three jobs at the same time, I mean on the same day. But in America, they pay for it. One who works in America can live off work, one who does can and can. In this country I don't know you can only have it if you use it not to say "steal" in public. Even the funds for the capitalisation or for the retirement of pensions that the introductory words were about today fail as in Argentina, not to say fail or Brazil v, when playing against Germany. For the end. This law will, unfortunately only apply to the public sector, and in the small sector, a small employer, a small caterer, a small craftsman, a small craftsman, a small builder, a small merchant, a shoemaker, does not matter, so I would say further in the worse position and from the workers who work with him and that something should change. But I would say that this law is one mild, light, so to speak, a compromise, and that is why I think it will eventually pass in this House. And now let me just have one sentence on the pension purchase. Mr. Hrelja said that we punish citizens who have been planning for a long time, but I don't know who in Croatia can plan for the long term? Nobody! Because we're neither America nor Germany, we're more like Brazil when he plays with Germany. But what I'm saying is that 3860 users
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83572	Comrade Cain, there's no open discussion about this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83573	It's not open, but when I answered for it, you didn't give me your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83574	You didn't answer on time, don't argue.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83575	Not that I didn't, they all saw.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83576	You haven't answered. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83577	We have a visual problem with you and me, but still, no matter what, Mr. President, I answered. Let me finish, let me finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83578	Don't finish, please nice!
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83579	It takes 10 to 12 million kunas to survive today and we find that money if we want to.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83580	I'm giving you a warning from my colleague Cain, and I'll take your word for it. Don't rape the pay phone, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83581	Well, the problem has begun with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83582	Please! Do you understand Croatian counterpart Cain? Now we'll go to the replicas. Dear Vice President of the House Željko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83583	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my dear colleague Grubisic, I expected you to mention something, after which I mentioned little about my colleague Cain, but I think something very important here is what should be mentioned, and that is the question of the impact on the depopulation of Croatia. In this law, the employer gets the possibility that after maternity leave workers can quit and this is different from the current Labour Act where, after maternity leave, the right to return to the same or similar jobs is given. We are all aware that the negative demographic image in Croatia is something that must torture us all independently of party commitment. That we have less than 40,000 born in 2003 and more than 50,000 dead, live births just over 10,000 less than dead. This will undoubtedly affect all processes in this country, including work and the economy, etc. And now in such a situation in which this government does not approach at all in any way in order to promote the population policy of Croatia, we have these solutions that will only negatively affect it. And that's definitely going to be negative. We have a situation that women are actually underrated on the labour market, less paid. 90% of newly employed women work on certain hours. And in that situation, we're still cutting their wages. Well, that's completely incomprehensible and contrary to everything that is sworn by the government, and so are we all here in this hall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83584	Replica response, respected representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83585	I wish we had a common interest, which is to extract Croatia from the long-standing recession. In this regard, I shall positively value the contributions made by the right hand or by the party to power. So, I don't mind meeting together with the common objectives and getting out of the crisis. In that sense, thank you Mr. Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83586	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Another replica and respected representative, Mladen Novak, to present a respected colleague of Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83587	Thank you very much. Well, you started out with the difference between the public sector and the real sector and the maltene happiness, and you got a week at the lottery of the public sector. Later, you were a little bit of a correction that it wasn't really about this working legislation and it certainly wasn't. However, I will remind you of those cases that have already been mentioned today and where the state is the owner of these companies, so I will extend a little bit and I will remind you of HZ Cargo where the minister has said so easily without any remorse of 3.5 thousand people I send to the Stock Exchange. They were mentioned here on May 3rd, Oil, TIBO, Gredell, it's been gone for a long time. 200 and some people fired without any problems with the existing law. Then you continued to defend your position by unions. Well, unions don't defend their position, they defend the minimum dignity of workers. That's what makes the difference between my concept and your concept of labour law. You were talking about a little craftsman and how much harder it was for him. This law, i.e. this package of laws, absolutely does not apply to this and does not facilitate any of the other situations. And on the other hand, the part of the law relating to small craftsmen has no movement, even as often as any new change makes them grow stronger. Protection of agency workers. Take care of the Danites when they bring you gifts. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, From this three-year extension to three years. Remember, I think the movie is called "The Big Break" when it picks them out at the entrance to the factory, sees who's got good teeth, who's got good muscles, who's gonna be able to work today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83588	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83589	First of all, a man should be allowed to work, and a man should be allowed the same way that he can live from that work and thus have. And in order for him to have it, I guess we should pay him fair and square. For honest work, honest pay. ZOR is certainly not a condition for the survival of the Croatian economy but the ZOR certainly helps or makes it difficult to do so. One word, life must flow. We need to figure out one thing today that we have problems. They'll have it tomorrow if there's any change in power of the future. We have 100,000 less unemployed where? In the real sector. And we have about 15 to 20 thousand employees in public services who normally recruit their membership and most of all the union community in Croatia. So it protects not only the position of workers, but it indirectly protects in its performances and positions because it is perfectly normal, natural and simply so. ZOR is not the only condition of economic activity, the condition of economic recovery is, I guess, consciousness, responsibility to work, the work of institutions, tax policy but certainly, labour policy, and that is then the ZOR. The condition of survival or progress is interest policy, financial policy, I don't know, and the problem of business in Croatia is this hypertrophysicity of the law when in a year we adopt 400 or more legal texts in which no parliamentary representative, not one lawyer, not one judge, not one minister, and then we have in the country what we simply have.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83590	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83591	Your Honor. Comrade Cain, your speaker spoke of black holes, there were many black holes in your speech. The first one of the big black holes is that you're trying both now and in this replica to throw a bone between the public sector and the real sector. If the public sector remained in its scope, and it is too large, the public sector and the state administration, and if the government or government were able to manage, that licences can be obtained for as many days as they get in Europe, our GDP would grow, the country would flourish. Remember the saying, that is, the day of the statement by the first Croatian Deputy Prime Minister of Croatia, Mr. Cacic, who is returning to the political scene, which he said, "We have lost against the administration of war, both against bureaucracy and against the public sector." The problem is the government doesn't know what it's doing. You were talking about another myth that in America you could live off your work. One of Mr Obama's most important speeches was that he was quoted worldwide, and was quoted several times in the Parliament by Croatian Labourists, he said, "It is necessary to restore dignity to the American worker because he cannot live from his work." What we're doing is just imitating the worst in the world. The biggest mistake is if you think that reducing public sector rights will improve in the real sector, we need to talk about the government's ability, about not doing good to the labour law, and that no country in the world has come out of the crisis by reducing labour rights. And this government does everything to reduce workers' rights and to please Croatian capitalists. And he looks forward to it, and the media is looking forward to it, as a great capitalist bought a Slovenian firm and now Croatia will flourish.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83592	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83593	I know that because of the purchase of Mercator Croatia will not flourish but I am glad, because it will be possible for the Star products, Leda products or someone else to go to that area or market. However, I think that this will benefit the Republic of Croatia and the budget of the Republic of Croatia, indirectly you and I. I'll do it again, I don't know if you've been listening to what I've been saying, that the biggest capital is probably in a man's health, mentally, clearly, physically and possibly business. No one stands for reducing public service rights, but in these circumstances I claim that public service is incomparable in a better and almost privileged situation compared to the real sector. And now the fundamental question is how to reach consensus? It is impossible to reach consensus, so it is not likely that the government would not reach it between the unions on one side and employers, but you cannot expect this as we cannot expect to reach consensus in this House between the majority and the opposition. Which is just as harmful and just as bad. The unions will remain in place, employers will remain in their position, and what should the government do now? It must, in some ways, simply not be defined, but must try to reconcile and bring this one state into line that cannot simply agree differently. I claim that this law, as someone said here earlier, is not a law on workers, but that law is what it is, I will not say consensus, but a condition that we can move on together. All in all, a man should be allowed to work and a man should be paid honestly for that work. I would like it to be true in Croatia that those rules of conduct that apply to America and not here, because a lot of those from Croatia who have gone to America have already returned to Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83594	Dear Representative Damir Cain, thank you very much. A new replica, a respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83595	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Cain, you said everyone's looking for a job in the public sector. I would add that, unfortunately, the government favours this decision to abandon the project of outsorcing and to establish a large mega-public company that employs 24,000 people. The government is clearly supporting that people are employed in the public sector, but on the other hand, there was an absurd situation that we still have at the door a possible referendum on cementing in the legal sense that such an outsorcing institute can never again be in the future. This reminds me of the 2010 and the government's attempt to amend the Labour Act, these were minimal changes, we had gathered more than 700 thousand signatures also for a referendum that would prohibit changes in that sense, but what was at the time very unusual that even with the highest positions and proposals, there was a declaration in the Assembly that such changes to the Labour Act could never happen again. I mention this because these are all legal facts that actually keep us in place and we are standing in place or we are going round or we are actually going backwards, and the problems with unemployment despite this fall that are currently being recorded will still be the real problem and will continue to be after this Law on the work of opening new jobs, and only the opening of new jobs can Croatia pull forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83596	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83597	I agree almost entirely with Mrs. Kosor and I can say, this law will never be passed by consensus. In 20 years, it hasn't been adopted by consensus, it couldn't be debated about this law in your time, it couldn't be debated, it has to be acknowledged, it's made it difficult for you, the work of employers, and now we just have what we have. Makiavelism, if there's a law in the law, then I argue, comes from this Labour Act. Even today, we may have had the opposite, perhaps we should have discussed these later points first, encouraged or discussed measures that would encourage the economy, and then simply discussed the Labour Act. But I also want to say this, the workers in Croatia are not overprotected, I never said or thought. Workers are protected where they work, in order states, in one Austria, in one Germany, in one Denmark, in the Netherlands, or I don't know, those Western countries. It's just a matter. And on the other hand, we have to let people work because if they don't, the worker can be protected as much as he wants, but he won't get paid, he won't get to health care, he won't get to retirement, the state won't make a contribution, the trade won't come to income and I won't count on it any further. And that's why I keep saying, almost like a mantra that the biggest capital is normal health and find a job. And once again I will say, today is the greatest privilege in the Republic of Croatia to work in public service. There are no jobs, I want to believe that still the number of unemployed may come down below 300 thousand in the 8th month, something is changing here, some of the activities are ahead of us, and this law will not stimulate the economy, but it can, I don't know, how much help it can create in some more orderly relationships conditions for such work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83598	Thank you very much. Honourable representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83599	Yes, my colleague, you have repeatedly noted in your debate and it is an irrefutable fact that everyone wants to get a job in the public sector. What does that mean? That means we need more working solidarity that has been destroyed for years, actually for decades. It is this bill that does not weigh on either side that allows for what is most important, cooperation of work and capital because neither work can without capital nor capital without work. But what is important, through its mechanisms, this law allows if there is a conflict of labour and capital, it clearly shows that it is on the side of work. Because it has its own mechanisms and what's most important is that the law is implemented, it's as important as the law itself, and more importantly. And you're right when you're criticizing in one way all those who've come to this law today because they really do today to protect workers, and what they've done with employment, they sound like abdominals because they're just not their subjects. All the tycoons, most of the tycoons, new capitalists fell out of HDZ's lap. These are the ones who destroyed the labor force, destroyed the factories, threw the workers out on the street, took his name, and in 1995, the worker in their law should not have called himself a worker, but an arsonist, and the shameful provision was that the executioner was obliged to obey the employer. These were their provisions, and now they pay over the fate of workers and workers. These are the ones that abolished in the Penal Code the failure of contributions, so they destroyed the workers and their families. They denied paying wages as a criminal offence by opposing the 2003 Penal Code, and in their last term of office in 2 years what did they do? They were just protecting their tax debtors, who remained and deprived the creditors among which the state,...and the most workers and employees themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83600	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83601	So I am extremely pleased that our colleagues on the right are defending a social, trade union policy and I think it is a major advance in the Croatian political arena. It is a shame, though, that they did not advocate such a policy at a time when the largest economic systems were privatised because if workers were taken care of at that time they would probably be different in this country today. And on that trail, the same thing, just one sentence about this retirement thing. Mr. Hrelja spoke earlier about punishing long-term citizens, although I say that in Croatia it is difficult to plan long-term because we are neither America, whatever anyone thinks of it, or Germany, or Denmark, or France. But here we have 3860 users of Royal, and intergenerational solidarity and will lose 400 kuna if no solution is found within 3 to 4 days. It's about what I'm talking about, getting a pension. Those who agreed to retire means companies were buying that internship, they were mostly state-owned firms, but also big firms like Podravka, Ericsson, Nikola Tesla, etc. If they're helped within 3, 4 days, maybe we'll save 10, 12 million kunas I don't know with which institute we might save 3,860 people, and if we don't lose those 400 kunas a month. I think we should help.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83602	Dear Representative Zlatko Tušak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83603	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Cain, in your discussion, you referred to the possibility of working for over 40 hours with another employer and set an example for the waiter. Now I'm asking you, a waiter who works 40 hours a week, makes a few dozen miles a day, does he still work Saturday with another employer? He probably didn't, but there's probably no other way out because he's probably in debt slavery, probably his salary is too small and probably to settle his obligations he doesn't have anything else left to do but agree to such work. Secondly, will his employer at the bar where he works allow him to work at his competition? That's the second question, what we really need to talk about. And third, whether or not cafes located in relatives etc. They're not gonna be ragged by those people who are gonna work at the waiters, so they're gonna have to agree to keep that job and go work somewhere else? But this law opens to a small or large door exactly the space to extend the working week while in the EU the average working week is two hours smaller than in Croatia, and when we talk about the average hour the other day, a minimum hour of 8.5 euros is adopted in Germany, and with us, the minimum hour is 4 times smaller. Now these are the reasons that will make people retire because of their lack of wealth, and the question is whether they will ever be able to live the 67 years to retire under such conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83604	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83605	That's where we get along entirely. There are too many people in this country in one debt slavery, too many people are over-indebted and unable to meet their obligations, too many people in this country are underpaid, wages are none, etc. But that I mentioned the example of the waiter, but I also mentioned the example of that good friend of mine that the Temple knew from... and who had left Istria in the 1970s. Where? New York. He says I started working on the weakest paid jobs, always doing three jobs, today a man lives on rent with 50, 60 or 70 apartments. Normally, this needs to be combined in a man’s life because many today work three, four jobs in America, so they may have only come to their home or to their apartment. But people should be allowed to work, and they need people to work fairly and pay honestly. We need to give people a chance and give them a chance if they want them to be able to work in some legal way. if people are fairly paid or otherwise compensated for the days off or I don't know how to work overtime, then they'll agree to those changes. Otherwise normally you can expect people to rebel rightly and dispute legal solutions. But people need a chance to work, make money and have it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83606	Honorable representative Nadica Jelash, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83607	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. You told your colleague Cain in your discussion that the Law on Labour Light was compromised, that's exactly what you said. So you agreed with the minister in other words when he said that such a legal proposal was particularly balanced, so it didn't work out on either side. In fact, what we're saying is exactly what we're saying is a compromise, and I think the government did a good job. Why is it logical that this law is compromised? If more had been done to the employers, the employers would have been more satisfied in that case. The opposition would say we're on the capital side, we're opening a space for greater exploitation of workers. If it had gone further on the arm of the wounded if we had met all the demands of the union and, of course, the trade unions would have been more satisfied, we would have put employers in a position to be even more uncompetitive on the European and world market so that they simply did not want to invest or to close their trades and companies. So now potential foreign investors highlight Croatia's rigid labour legislation as one of the main obstacles to greater investment in Croatia. So if we destroy employers, who will open new jobs or retain existing jobs? Will the unions do that? No, unions don't open jobs, that's all employers do. So we can't kill employers, but what we have to do and we have to do it through the laws is ask them to teach them to operate socially responsible, and that means they respect workers' rights, first of all, to pay for honest work, and that's what this government does. I remind you of the law not to pay wages without payment of contributions, etc. So this legislative proposal has provided an optimal relationship between capital and labour and is therefore good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83608	Thank you very much. A new replica, respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83609	Thank you very much. You have told your colleague Cain that the conditions in Croatia are unique, I would only add not unique but also discriminatory. Economic activity should be because of man, not man because of economic activity. And man would have to be a measure of everything and such a view of the economy is not a socialist economy but an economy with a human face and it is only so acceptable to the modern democratic world. And why is it discriminatory, just a few data, so you'll see that the small minority is governmental, and the vast majority is suffering. Look at the data on the big entrepreneurs. In 2008, they had 330 billion kuna in revenue, and in 2012. 298, 32 billion kuna incomes less and 42,000 employees less. But in the same period they have 3.5 billion kuna net profits after taxing more. 18.5 billion kuna in 2012 only large employers had 348. In no year since the existence of Croatia, they have not had such net profits. 40% of the employee's profits have increased. In 2005, they had 45 thousand, 2008 48 thousand, so in years of conjuncture the increase in profits per employee was 2% and then 40% in years of crisis at 68 thousand kuna net profit. How to fit in and all this that is happening now rather than as a component of a misanthropic, economic policy that only leads to... I'm a worker. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when we look at salaries that haven't covered the cost of life or the price hike, then we see that in part it's really... only a man in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83610	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83611	This economic policy is not new, this economic policy is not an invention I would say to this team that has been in power for 2 or 3 years now but is simply one constant from there in the 1990s. I agree and I will repeat again, yes, the conditions in Croatia are probably when it comes to business unique. And don't you think that me or anyone here in this house isn't for one economy with a human face at least the way it was back in the '90s, even though we're aware that that economy couldn't stand the public's judgment, so not only did it collapse, but the country pulled back. It's exactly what you're talking about getting but I'd say another little detail. The time has come to rule less this country on the basis of votes that someone will adopt in the elections, but the government will go through the capital that individuals came to in the 1990s or mostly in the '90s and the media themselves. And that's something we should just talk about. And money will be ruled, not vote. I have to go to the press.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83612	The last replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83613	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You said that this black, liberal capitalism in which employers, tycoons and all others gain huge profits and workers in Croatia are becoming less and less, not the invention of this team but from before. In fact, from Hajek and Hajek's group in Switzerland and liberal capitalism that was adopted as such, this government has made it clear about this liberal form as no one has yet. But when you were talking about trade unions and their position and then about employers and their position that they were being blackmailed into their trenches, I would say that the government did exactly as they say, in order to forgive me, bring this law neither "storage nor past", so that they were somewhat satisfied both or as the colleagues said light-compromising law which is here today on these benches. The economy with a human face will still be far, far-fetched by our people especially when we know that for example. Five days a week is a total of 120 hours. If people sleep eight hours a day, it's 40 hours, it's 80 hours, so 50 of them are allowed to work. What else can a man do with 30 hours left? To meet all your needs, to have a life with so-called. the human face we're talking about and the economy with the human face. This is also very closely linked to what he said and did not say Don Ivan Grubisic was a demographic, that this Law is closely linked to both demographics and demographic losses that Croatia has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83614	The replica matches Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83615	I would like Mr. Grubisic to have that small, above all, entrepreneur who is even in a 10-time worse situation than a worker who works with him has something more to do with him, to get out to meet him as it comes out to large economic systems, that the backpack in this country whether he works in a real or public service there is much more and that those who have come to nothing, no matter what, remain. It's the only way for opportunities in this country to start changing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83616	The word is now being reported by Minister of Labour and Pension System, Honored Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83617	Thank you very much. There is no Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, Academy Director Reiner, but let's get some things straight on the issue of bringing pregnant women back to work and protecting pregnant women and men and children who are using maternity leave. The law has maximum protection for pregnant women. Therefore, no provision that protects pregnant women has been amended in the Law, and our Law is at a very high level looking at the Directive of the European Union, our protection of pregnant women, women who are breast-feeding is extremely high. So here, in the previous, first version of the Law, we wanted to disable what was respected Vice President of the Parliament and said that when women came back from the maternity home that they could get fired because it's in the current version of the Law, so the law is valid. In the first version of the Law, we tried to solve it in a way that the employer could offer another job that is consistent with qualifications. However, it came across great resistance and NGOs and trade unions, and in agreement with the social partners we returned the existing solution. It is therefore nothing new but an existing solution. What life teaches us is a matter of situation when the company is liquidated, so when the company no longer exists. Since there was no legal possibility, these protected categories of workers remained employed in a company they did not have. They technically had an employer they didn't have, and no one could fire them because the employer didn't. So the only change is that when the company is liquidated, that means when the liquidation process is completed, when it is deleted from the registration in a commercial court, then the contracts on the work of protected categories automatically cease. So no one can fire a pregnant woman except in the case of the company's judicial liquidation, and that's by law, so not an employer, not anyone, but by law enforcement. So, as we clearly point out here again, there was no and no reduction in the protection of pregnant women, nor did we change anything in this law when we talk about the protection of pregnant women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83618	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, the respected vice president of the House of Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83619	Thank you. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The labour law is important for the development of entrepreneurship, while at the same time its provisions must be a function of protecting work from excessive exploitation. That labour legislation is an important part of European law also speaks of a whole series of European Union directives on labour relations, employment equality, protection of young people at work, parental leave, collective surplus workers, counselling, information of workers and the like. As a member of the European Union, Croatia must also bring into its legal system what we are doing with this proposal because all directives relating to labour legislation are listed. The labour law defines minimum standards under which an employer cannot use workers and does not exclude other opportunities through collective bargaining. The State must regulate the ratio of capital and labour by defining the rights and obligations that ensure a fair relationship in the association of labour and capital resulting from a new value that has market valorisation. Three important criteria relating to work and workers should be met urgently. It is an organisation and conduct of working time, safety and protection of the health of workers and the right to free association or union association. It's a package of laws that we're going to discuss today, and the Labour Act is the first of several laws. There must be no breach of the process of work, i.e. the technological process in specific activities, as well as mutual arrangements between employers and workers in collective bargaining processes, i.e. the emergence of business problems. Croatia is having a hard time fighting unemployment. It is driven by a long-term crisis, but also by the structure of the economy and an inadequate education system, especially in secondary education. We have a low employment rate, high unemployment, especially in young people. The share of the industrial sector has been steadily dropping, especially in times of crisis, and most of the jobs lost in years of crisis have been in the processing industry, construction and trade, over 100,000. Active employment measures, especially young people with no job experience, but long-term employment requires measures to raise competitiveness, to invest and create new jobs that create real value. So the most valuable jobs are in the real sector. This bill sets out the following objectives that the law needs to ensure: rapid adaptation of the labour market situation, foster more flexible forms of employment, make it clearer to regulate individual existing institutes, or harmonize in the domestic labour legislation of the European Directives that regulate this area. During the debate so far, the most reluctance has led to working hours, overtime and redistribution of working hours, and temporary employment agencies, i.e. the remuneration of workers. In the debate in the first reading of the law, the SDP club supported the intensities of the new Labour Act because we assessed that it regulates the relationship of labour and capital to a good extent, but we had certain suggestions just to edit working time and to adjust workers. We therefore point out that it is good that certain corrections have occurred in the final draft of the law in the articles that regulate these two institutes. Croatia is in the process of excessive deficits, so respecting the European Commission's recommendations related to the European semester, this law also introduced two new labour law institutes that Croatia does not know so far. Thus, in Article 10, the paragraph governing the remuneration of workers is added where the employer does not have the need for his work, linked to society for a maximum period of 6 months with a written agreement of related employers. And Articles 61 and 62 provide for the possibility of additional work of full-time workers, for up to 8 hours a week and 180 hours a year, provided that the employer has the consent and does not work overtime. From the changes to the first reading, we set out the following changes precisely which we have suggested should be modified, which is a contract for the concession of workers not to be concluded for jobs carried out by workers who have been cancelled on the basis of a business conditioned cancellation in the previous 6 months, and then to regulate the remuneration of an undefined employee who has not been granted in a way that determines the average salary of the previous three months. A one-sided change in the employer’s working time schedule may be made up to 50 hours a week, including overtime, but not for 45 hours on average within a period of 4 months. This is also our suggestion, or observation to discuss it. There was a reduction of six, an average of six hours a week. Social partners continue to have objections to certain provisions, and in such a situation a compromise is needed which they obviously do not want to agree to. Therefore, these changes adopted by the new Labour Act are not radical and should not be as likely as employers who, through the Croatian Employers' Association, suggest that they will not contribute to the creation of new jobs. The fact is that laws do not open jobs or in themselves raise economic activity. In addition to the laws, a good environment for economic measures and support requires a social climate that raises overall social efficiency. In most of this proposal, the Labour Act has no significant changes to the damages of workers, which relate to severance and cancellation deadlines, and some institutes have been improved. In the part of the changes in terms of more flexible organisation of working time and methods of employment, we estimate that it is better for a person to be in the world of work than unemployed because it gives him an additional opportunity for permanent employment. Croatia, as a member of the EU and part of the labour legislation, must also benefit from European experience because this is a presumption of encouraging domestic and foreign investors to create jobs and raise the efficiency of the domestic economy. The implementation of the Labour Act should also play a major role in the future for social partners, but also for the state through their inspections that need to curb illegal employment and labour exploitation. The SDP club will accept the Labour Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83620	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First of all, the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83621	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, the President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, you first mentioned that it was a matter of harmonisation with EU legislation. This definitely does not stand because so far the existing Labour Act has been in line with EU directives. So it has nothing to do with each other. This is the pure whim of our government. You mentioned a package of labour laws, and then I'll mention it. Yesterday I came across the information that the Law on Representativeship, which today will also turn into a union that is very media presence at this time, and this is about the Croatian Medical Union, is practically impossible to be a representative union. Does that mean you found a way to push someone who's mean, who doesn't want to listen, who doesn't want to come to you for his own opinion? You have also talked about these good solutions, so I will show you a very convenient solution, among other things, that is, the legislator explains it because there is no obligation for workers to come to work and perform work. That's why, for example, a vacation is now being canceled. Besides, when a man is on vacation, he doesn't have the obligation to come to work and do regular work, so there's no touch with common sense. But there's one more detail. In an explanation for the public's duties in defense. Isn't that a little too far gone? So if you're mobilized, you're going to defend your country by canceling your deadline. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] I think you've really gone too far with this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83622	The replica matches the vice president of the House, Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83623	I wouldn't comment on who has, who doesn't. But the fact is that the total of our legislation, and then labour legislation must be harmonised with European legislation and 14 or 15 directives are listed here, which are applied in the final proposal of the Labour Act. Of course, the Labour Act was in progress before, while Croatia negotiated full membership in the EU, in part. In some segments, in part, in some segments completely, and today as a member of the EU, I think it is good to use all positive experiences in the legislative sense and in practice as do other EU members. And like this in segments when you say you're pulling something out of the law. The fact is that if the company is in trouble and you're going to ask that the employee is working for another six or three or two months, she doesn't have a job for him, that means the whole company will come. So, and that part of the worker who might be working in trouble. In such a situation, both employers and workers agree to address certain problems, that is, how they will leave with severances. I myself had this situation in the company and my biggest and longest internship was conducted in the real sector. And I know that most employers are highly esteemed by their workers and will never stop them, and it is certain that at one company's long-term business, this employment and capital ratio must be good in order to be able to do business in the long term.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83624	The Republic will now be presented by respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83625	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Zgrebec, here you have just completed this replica with a sentence of the ratio of capital and labour. Several times at the very beginning, you mentioned capital and work. However, this debate and otherwise our speech in the Assembly and the Labour Act is full of termological confusion. How is it that those who have capital are employers, and who have work are workers? I guess it's those who have capitalists, and we started beating them with employers. Because their only job, goal and purpose is to give a job to a worker, not to earn a profit. You are in great error. The second thing that is, the biggest prank is that Croatian labour legislation is one of the biggest obstacles to investment in Croatia. That's a lie. Only in sixth place, you are, your government is an obstacle because you did not create frameworks that would allow investment in Croatia. And now across the back of the workers you want to get the country out of the crisis, and you're not gonna make it. The second thing, the big coaster, is that what is now being done to comply with European legislation, please tell me in which directive does it say that we should have employment agencies? Third category of workers? New age's laborer? What directive does that say? You accepted, Milanovic's government accepted a neoliberal capitalism that is embedded in most of the countries in Europe. And you're simply the follow-up of that neoliberal capitalism.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83626	The replica matches the vice president of the House, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83627	I've never been anyone's follow-up or neoliberal capitalism, but I've worked in the real sector and I know what it means to work in the real sector and on the market no one can lecture me about it. The employers are not, must not be capitalists, nor must the capitalist be an employer. He can invest his capital, give the manager to run it, and then that manager is an employer. You don't have to know that. You don't know that. [[Intruder Vuksic: No, you don't know that.]] I didn't say it was the Labour Act that he'd be opening jobs, I said the opposite. No law can open jobs, no law will raise the economy unless the overall social environment is such that it can be done. And as for labour and capital, he's always opposed because he has different goals. And when we speak within one state, you have three goals. One is a capital target, which wants to fertilise at the lowest cost, you have a job goal or a worker who wants as much pay as possible, you have the goal of a country that wants as many jobs as possible because it gets even more revenue into the budget and on the other hand has less social benefits from that budget. And you will never have an agreement between labour and capital and you will never pass the Labour Act in any state that will have a consensus between workers and employers, or the owner of capital.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83628	Next replica, Reverend Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83629	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues, Zgrebec, in your discussion, you looked back on times of crisis, including the loss of jobs, and you indicated that some 100,000 jobs were lost in the construction sector. Yes, I agree with you, but there's a part of the job loss that this government and the current minister are guilty of. I saw and read in the media the other day that the Construction Union and the Employers' Association went public with fair prices in construction, and among other things they warned of a problem. The problem is dumping prices in public competitions and part of those who appear in competitions appear with subcontractors and lower the price, and the Construction Union and Association of Construction Employers close to some year has sent a proposal to the Minister for Enlargement of the Border collective contract and he has not done so until today. He did not make it to place all construction employers in the same position, so that all under equal conditions could participate in a public tender but practically happened that precisely because of the dumping prices part of the construction companies had failed and ended up in bankruptcy. There's also a part of the crime that goes to this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83630	This replica corresponds to the esteemed vice president of the House, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83631	100 thousand jobs were not lost in construction, I said that in three branches, in trade, in the processing industry and in construction, about 112,000 jobs were lost in the five years of crisis. But construction is pre-named for Croatian needs. Why is it pre-named? Too many workers worked in the sector. Because highways were rapidly built on the one hand, and on the other hand we had a big boom in the real estate business which today is actually the biggest problem of a large number of entrepreneurs, especially builders where expensive properties were built that do not have a buyer on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83632	The last replica, the esteemed Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83633	Comrade Zgrebec, you said that one of the objectives of this Labour Act is to make it possible to adapt quickly on the labour market. In fact, you have given and defined a world-wide ideological background based not only on this Labour Act but on the general government policy. What's the function of the state? That it is always rapidly, effectively adapting to the state of the market or preventing and correcting, correcting, correcting the delusions, errors and injustices that the laws of the market, in this case the labour markets, bring with them. If we accept the claim that the role of the Government and the Parliament is to legalise through the laws what the laws of the market have adopted in itself, then there is no need for laws, no Parliament, no inspection supervision but only one provision. In Croatia, only the laws of the market, labour markets, goods markets, capital markets apply. I come from it is also the role of this Parliament and the Government, and in particular this Parliament to see market, law and market errors and to correct these injustices through laws or preventions, and when mistakes arise. And that is the injustices that the Law of Work carries in itself all the time we speak to them and warn them about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83634	The reply to the replica and the esteemed vice president, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83635	It's not a worldview. The fact is that the objective of each Labour Act must be in one segment, and a rapid adjustment in the labour market, which by definition means that if a person is left out of a job that must have the possibility of faster employment and not that he is long-term unemployed, long-term at the employment office or that, in some years of life, there is no longer a possibility of employment. There are not many companies anymore, neither in Croatia will a man spend his entire working life in one company or in one job. So it's not a worldview, it's an opportunity to be a man if he runs out of work as fast as he can at a certain, indefinite time, but it's important to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83636	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDSS Club, a respected colleague, Milorad Pupovac, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83637	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates, dear fellow MPs and MPs. It is not easy to be Minister of Labour in Croatia. And regardless of many things I cannot agree with the ministry's work when it comes to this legislative proposal, but being a labour minister in Croatia is a really difficult job. But how did it come that the labour minister was almost the minister of labour bankruptcy or labour rights bankruptcy, how did this happen? By creating capitalism where the state should have been good enough to create capitalists, whether they were 200 or 250 or 300, anyway, but the state decided to create its own capitalists. The cost of it was a loss of business, the price of it was a privatisation that was not known what would be behind it, the price behind it was, of course, the destruction of industry and the destruction of the economy. The state was there to secure that privatisation and to create new capitalists, the state was there for those who had lost their jobs to receive into the pension system, the state was there to create assumptions about it. And that when this capitalism should ensure that the nation can function, that people can have jobs is said no, it is not possible because the cost of working in Croatia is too high, because labour rights in Croatia are too large. And since 2003, when we passed the first Labour Act here, we are constantly recording a decrease in labour rights, but we are not recording a rise in jobs, no. Mr. Minister, it's an empirical fact that neither you nor I are responsible for, but we're all responsible for our position. First of all, responsible for the fact that we find this, that the reduction of labour rights did not result in the creation of a larger number of jobs, unfortunately. Are the workers responsible for that? No, neither are they in the public sector, nor are they in the real or private sector. Has the state tried to create assumptions to protect and create opportunities for employers to have better conditions? It is, including this government, including the former finance minister and the current finance minister. Another thing that makes it difficult to be Minister of Labour in Croatia, it is difficult to be because the Minister of Labour should also be Minister of Economy and Minister of Regional Development and Minister of Small Entrepreneurship, so if it is possible for the Minister of Finance, what is not the only thing that cannot be the Governor of the National Bank, I think. But all of this, at a larger or smaller door, is allowed by the Government, or by employers, or by means of capital, and asks for it and it cannot objectively be and cannot be, nor by law, nor by Article 55 and 56. The Croatian Constitution and therefore let us help the Minister to dissipate him from what he cannot objectively be, which is that he cannot take over the roles of other ministries nor can he take over the roles of other actors in society. For this reason, Mr. Minister, we as a club that has proposed to continue social dialogue and that after the first reading of this law try to agree on the matter of working time, models of temporary and occasional jobs, employment through agencies and the status and character of working councils, we can say that something has been achieved, but we can also say that something more needs to be achieved. So something has been achieved in working hours, and in that sense it is good. What we still need at work, and here we find that union requirements are justified, which is to clearly determine the difference between working time schedules, unequal working time schedules and redistribution of working hours. Also, temporary employment through agencies or through agencies, so accepted remarks are not enough and should be done, we at the club of an independent democratic Serb party consider it necessary both for constitutionality and for the legality of not making a difference and not making discrimination between those working indefinitely and those working at a certain time when their rights are at stake. For this reason, Mr. Minister, we suggest that you consider until the end of this debate and until the vote of this law of the remarks made when it comes to the matter of extending the time of work, from 1 year to 3 years and the definitions which are justified conditions under which it is possible to do so and what are the circumstances in which the employer may happen because of insufficiently clear provisions of the law begin to manipulate the possibility of hiring after 3 years another 3 years and then again 3 years as we already have in practice. We also believe that it is extremely important to exclude the possibility and that collective agreements can negotiate lower rights of agency differences than the rights set out in the Labour Act. That's the first thing I think we as MPs in the Assembly would do in accordance with the provisions of Articles 55 and 56. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia should help the minister to participate in this bill and to accept suggestions from the union on their own, either through amendments that will come there, or through government amendments. Third, it's a question of the status and character of the working councils. So there was no improvement, and the rest is that the employer is obliged to inform the working council, but not to consult them, let alone decide with them. We believe that at least the advisory role of the working council is necessary, otherwise it is better to abolish the working council than to keep them in that status in which they are, in fact, only the recipients of the information about what they intend to take. Two things that have been introduced in the earlier proposal that did not exist, which is the concession of workers to the related employer and the issue of complementary work, we believe that through this debate we need to define differently and we will, through our amendments that we will propose as a Club of Representatives, insist or exclude it from the bill or that it is different to define because the law that will go to any new young generation in the Republic can count on it to be, not a privilege to get a job, but to have a job indefinitely and that it is a privilege to have the right... and that it is a privilege to have a protected status as a worker. I think that the Croatian Parliament, now it is no longer a question of whether it will be achieved, whether the agreement will be reached by employers and workers and whether the Government will arbitration in the agreement, now in my opinion it is the Croatian Parliament that needs to give its opinion in these few key provisions. I would especially like to mention this to my colleagues and colleagues from the SDP. I know it's hard to be a social Democrats here and in many other places today, but I also want to tell you that it's time to be a social Democrats because with such a reduction of rights, it's not just the individual right of workers of individual branches, with such a reduction of rights that this nation is at stake. And when someone says they're gonna save us investments, they're not going to, they're going to enslave us again with this kind of way, and that's why it's time to be different, to start looking at things differently, and not that we're trapped by a policy that's established as a new one in Croatia, and also in the broader proportions where social rights are talked about, then you're a socialist, and you want to keep socialism. So what? What was wrong with people having jobs, which was bad that people were right, which was bad that they could have had fuss and that they could work at home in their fields, which was bad that the country was in a situation that could be a competitor in the world game and when it comes to her models of managing work, but also when it comes to her models of international policies. And not that every day comes to us a question or you'll do it and it won't be an investment. I think it's time we were also Social Democrats, and at the same time it's time for a new kind of patriotism in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83638	Thank you. A respected colleague, Jadranka Kosor, came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83639	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Pupovac, you said it was not easy to be a minister of work in the Republic today, you mentioned last day, I agree it was not easy to be a minister of labour and economy in either the past or the previous government, it was never easy in that position. I remind you, and you know well whether you were part of the ruling coalition, the Minister of Labour had problems in the past government and with, among other things, negotiations in Chapter 8 on resolving one of the most difficult issues of shipbuilding, problems naturally expected with the Squires where every second the spark threatened to turn into a flame that no one could overcome anymore, with ironworks where workers were climbing chimneys because the Minister of Labour is always minister to everyone, but also to the unemployed, so those and the Minister of Labour and Ministers today and for each of those more than 303 thousand unemployed who are at the Employment Office. And that's why it might be one of the hardest positions in any government. I point out, it was particularly difficult in the past government to try and close negotiations, but, of course, it struggled with both facebook protests and any kind of dissatisfaction and collected signatures for a referendum against amendments to the Labour Act. So I agree with you to try here today in the Parliament but also in this debate, but ultimately when it comes to voting on amendments to gather strength and really achieve some kind of agreement and to pass a labour law that will be able to help and to open jobs for those who are on the labour market today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83640	The replica matches the esteemed Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83641	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleagues Kosor, that I remember that time when it was in the wake of the discussion of the Labour Act, we played a role in it and we tried to find solutions that were both political and different in this moment. And I remember, of course, the attack that you and the Prime Minister and the government were going through because you didn't change the Labour Act. And that was one of the reasons why you lost the election as the amendment to the Labour Act may be one of the reasons why this government will lose the election, and yet it will be guilty. What I wanted to say was this, repeat from the speech, this House now has the responsibility to help Minister Mrsic and help by voting on a number of amendments that will make this law a better compromise when it comes to protecting workers' rights than it is right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83642	The second line will be presented by the esteemed Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83643	My colleague, what you are saying about social democracy and the insufficient integration of these fundamental values into this law, I think that the thing you're talking about is very serious and complex and should start talking about it here at national and other levels, given that we are a member of the EU. This is a matter of working co-decision, capitalism reform and market dictatorship, which is rooted at that level. And that's something that's started to talk about at these levels. But here at the Labour Act he can only talk about the realities in which we found ourselves under the Law on Commercial Companies, which is an acquis of the EU. And as long as we are not reformed, and I agree that no matter what we are a small country, but we have a positive experience of which you have talked about the good sides in which we have in these political spaces and beyond, and as Croatia, we have something to say about this protection and such working participation at the very beginning, rather than correcting the injustice somewhere through tax reform or through greater or less taxation. Then it is already too late to correct an injustice that must already be incorporated into the participation of workers and in a different distribution of goods of particularly monetary value.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83644	In the name of the Croatian Labourists, the respected Dragutin Lesar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83645	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Minister. Most of the ministers in this government beat the vote not to keep their promises. Minister of Labour, Mr. Minister, you are the only member of this government and a minister who can boast that he will execute what is not promised and this is the new Labour Act. A year ago, the government was very clear that it had no intention of intervening with the new Labour Act. No, I'll start with the delusions imposed, repeated as mantras, not the Labour Act destroyed jobs in either Croatia or Europe, but the jobs destroyed the vagabonds from the financial sector that produced, extended and created this crisis. And from the data on obtaining large companies back four years, it is evident that they have never had more profit than in years of crisis. Both in reason of the Law and debate but also in content in Croatia is trying to install a value system in which it is a privilege to have a job under any conditions. It is indeed an attempt to introduce dictatorship, dictatorship of the market and cannot and must not be decided by only trade unions, employers, or government but must be the last in the area, the last word must be the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Employers' Association is trying to help the Government and the Minister adopt this Act because it does not satisfy this Law. They're very pleased with this law. And the proof is that they did not come before the Croatian Parliament with any concrete amendments. So, I believe that they only publicly acquitted dissatisfaction and thus tried to strengthen the position of the government in defence of this Law in the Croatian Parliament. And this Law of Labour repeats history, in 2003, before the elections or several months before the elections, the government then passed a new Law on working with the same arguments, arguments and great promises of its effect in Croatia and, of course, because of such a labour law lost the elections. I've asked from this pay phone several times now whether they're really not afraid that this kind of government will return to power, not return, to the HDZ. They laughed, they smiled, they laughed cynically, now, today I heard from the ranks of the ruling coalition about the same message a few minutes ago. In light of the objectives of this proposal, the Government has clearly written and, in order not to be mistaken, the 8th objective is to reduce the legal employment protection index in order to facilitate layoffs and thus create jobs. Facilitating layoffs and to God’s employment does not allow new jobs to be replaced only by workers. Which one? Elderly, sicker, with many or more children, especially when it comes to women whose children are more often getting better or what capitalists call them uncompetitive labour. And only there will be a replacement of those categories with another which, given that we have imposed on them and the rule is that the privilege of having a job accepts more unfavourable working conditions than those who are now employed. What countries in Europe have the largest legal employment protection index? Austria, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, Scandinavian countries where the number of unemployed is the smallest in Austria, Germany, the Benelux and Scandinavia countries. It's just proof that the index of legal protection of employment, the distortion of unemployment, doesn't have to have anything to do with it. The second dogma, which is repeatedly repeated by workers in Croatia, is too expensive, has too many rights, gross labour costs are too large and too little to do. For years. Not just now, not only during the rule of this coalition, it is always present. Labour taxation in Croatia is at a rate of 40.7% of total taxes, the European Union has 51. Taxation of consumption in Croatia is 49.1 Europe has 28.5. The taxation of capital in Croatia is 10.3%, the European Union has 20.8%. The average net captainate in Croatia is 4.7 euros, in the European Union 23.7. The total gross cost per hour of work in Croatia is 8.8 euros, in the European Union 23.7. So our workers with 8.8 gross hours of work and 4.7 euros of average net captains are the only and main reason for Croatian economy incompetence. And the latest data in the average wage trend shows that it fell below 5300, it will continue to fall unfortunately. And when you look at the data in the distribution of salaries, as many as 32% of employees receive a salary of up to 3700 kuna, up to 3700 kuna net monthly. That's data for all those who have a labor fund hours from 160 to 200 a month. The last two days are the current proposal and the topic that there will be an increase in wages in Croatia if the state cancels the tax rate on income of 40%. It's like employers were increasing their salaries when the tax rate went from 15 to 12 and 45 to 40. The fourth fraud and embezzlement to the citizens and employees of Croatia... the very definition of the crime of non-payment of salaries are taken to protect them and I must repeat that it is a lie because it is a crime under the current law only if the employer has money, and, let's say, he does not want to pay the wages. If he can't dispose of his means or if he doesn't have enough money, the payout goes unpunished. The minister said in the introduction that this law stimulates collective bargaining. This law thus set up stimulates the creation of yellow trade unions and collective agreements in order to establish a range of opportunities to reduce labour rights by such factory collective agreements lower than those established, especially in agency employment. The second constant is a contract on a specific which will become a privilege, because we said the privilege is to have a job under any conditions. Third, agency employment, abuse points in formulations, same rights if they work on the same jobs and for three years the same worker in the same employer on the same jobs. Of course, after three years there will be similar jobs, not the same, and that agency workers will work on similar jobs and not the same jobs. In fact, it is the conduct and regulation of dumping prices on the labour market because these workers do not have the right, the material rights of collective agreements which are indeed contrary to Directive 104 of 2008 because under the notion of salary in Europe in the contractual functioning of the European Union under the pay are not only regular, basic and minimum salaries but all receipts, i.e. by giving an employer to an employee of money or nature. The devastating consequences of agency employment and their expansion have seen and recognised both in Germany and limited to 18 months. I guess they know because they're burned on their own experience why they're doing it. And as it seems in Croatia, it is an example of Zagreb Holding and the behaviour of the supposed future mayor of Croatia as the replacement of existing workers through agency employment is being done. I guess that provision in the Labour Act came in to please Zagreb Holding. Malignants who can no longer work with this employer can get, regardless of the reason for the disability, fired. They say you don't shrink labour rights, uh, at all. It's a test run. If a worker who is on probation goes to hospital, that's a legitimate reason for firing, without access to court for his protection. Working hours schedule. Equal schedule, unequal, redistribution of working hours and supplemental work. In the 36 amendments that we have submitted to this bill, we are trying to help the government to make some of these provisions clearer, cleaner, more precisely, something that they have failed to regulate to regulate, as proof that we are not a priori against any change than those that bear righteousness within them. However, I cannot understand simply and accept the fact that supplemental work or the right to additional work of 8 hours a week is represented as the right of workers to make additional money, and then in law you have the provision that the employer must give him consent to such work. Well, if that's the right of a worker what his employer has to do with him doing extra work. I'm afraid beyond that, there are impious intentions of those who have incorporated such a formulation into the law. Work week and its deployment says it's determined by collective agreement, agreement, regulation. If all this is gone, then the employer will make his decision. It's a very big protection. And what I see is that the labour minister doesn't understand any connection between the labour market situation, women's rights, their protection. He does not realize that the figure of under 40,000 newborn children, below 20,000 newlywed marriages, and as many as 6,000 divorces are partly due to labour market conditions, especially women, especially the schedule of working hours during the day and during the week. But due to time, I can't explain to the minister that these are reasons that lead to the problem in the family, not only as the education system says the other day, and this Labour Law really shows that employers do not show even the minimum social responsibility, and not because of the theory, not because of the parole, but the fact that this country has been investing in the private sector for years, not two, not three, not five, but 20 years a large amount of public money. Five and a half billion kuna in last year's subsidy, 53,000 employment with a series of benefits on the burden of public money. 19 and a half thousand of those who worked for 1600 kuna. Tens of billions of kuna written off tax debts. If these are not enough reasons to demand and employers must be socially responsible for the state of the labour market and workers I do not know what to do, and those who do not understand it will be satisfied. And remember, employers will only be satisfied when there's only a minimum wage law in the state without the Labour and Corporate Contracts Act. This is what they call a flexible labour market and the possibility of faster adaptation I've brought an end, Mr. Vice President. [[Intruder Stazic: Bring the end.]] Thank you. [[Intruder Stazic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83646	We have two replicas. Dear Ingrid Antičević Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83647	My colleague, when you mention workers in your debate, you are actually talking about the workforce, and in that part, I agree with you when you talk about their overall protection and the pursuit of capital, i.e. capitalist that as you say they have out of them and draw the greatest profit. That is, therefore, a fundamental problem and how to resolve the problem. I'll do it again. This law cannot solve all these problems that are essential to nature. It responds to the real situation as in the real situation it is best to protect workers rather than allow business activities. But what you're saying, and I was saying it, and when I replicated my colleague Pupovac, that's a serious problem. But the moment a worker, which means a different economic policy, a different economic policy and a different economic order. When a worker will not be a labour force and a business cost, but rather a worker will be a participant of a business production process that deserves his salary and not only for himself, but also for the whole family because the salary will be a family salary so that he can normally feed his family. But she implies a different relationship,... A different relationship. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will repeat what is being considered, given that this way and the market dictatorship cannot be achieved by a fundamental kind of justice, it is only possible at EU level to change this acquis, which has tied our hands in the Law on Commercial Companies. But for such changes, I believe, given that the same discussions come from both the left and the right and from you that it is possible in that sense to achieve one consensus.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83648	The replica matches the esteemed Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83649	My colleague Antičević, is a replica although you have agreed with me very much, but I am starting with that no law, nor must the Labour Act be aimed at leaving only the current situation on the market. He has to have goals sometimes, he has to lead to some kind of improvement. Because if by law we just prescribe what is today a situation on the market then progress won't be, that's what I'm talking about. And I agree with you that only the Labour Act cannot solve all problems with the eternal conflict of labour and capital. He will always be, there never was a order in which there was no conflict. But the Labour Act is the first or first step should be, and through our amendments that I did not explain in the public debate you will see that we are exactly offering this Labour Act to be the first step. Of course, behind the Labour Act, we could open a debate about monetary policy, which is one by my court, for the reasons why such relations on the labour market in Croatia are present.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83650	Second replica, the esteemed Nadia Jelesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83651	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Lesar, in your debate, you said that it was the illogical urgency of the legislator to facilitate the layoff of workers in order to facilitate employment. So now employers do not offer contracts indefinitely because of a complex firing procedure. Contracts are almost exclusively offered at a specified working time. We know that about 90% of all contracts have been in recent years contracts for a certain time. And we know also very well that the workers who have contracts at a certain time are, in some ways, second-class citizens, because because of this fact cannot be credited. So I can't get bank loans and exercise some other rights. In other words, if the discharge procedure is made easier, which is indeed one of the intensities of this law, so if this procedure is simplified, it is the legislator's assumption that employers will now become more employed indefinitely, i.e. that employees will come in that case in a position to acquire, among other things, and the possibility of borrowing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83652	The replica matches the esteemed Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83653	My colleague Jelash, when I last read the Labour Law for the first time, said that about 80% of the work contract is on the set, you said now 90, then they called me a liar, to lie, that that's not the right thing to do. Now what they're gonna tell you, I don't know, but I don't care. Tell me what kind of cancellations, which type of cancellation to relief and layoffs we're talking about are business terms and conditions of termination, or cancellation of the wrong behaviour of the workers. As conditions or reasons why contracts were concluded on a specific and not indefinite basis. What should be liberalised with regard to the current solution in the case of personally conditioned cancellations? You can't work, you can't quit. The hidden behavior of the workers? So take a look at the current solution to the Labour Act and the case law. We're coming up on business terms and conditions. Employers of up to 20 employees had no restrictions, none. No programs, no rights, no respect for any rights under the Labour Act. And there's more than a third of them, 324 thousand if I'm not mistaken. So a third of the problem is solved. In these two-thirds, if the profits of large corporations grew 40% in four years of crisis and fired 43,000 workers under what law? By which law if this was so difficult, and they fired 43,000 workers from the 320 largest companies in Croatia, and 40% of their profits were increased.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83654	We're continuing the club debate. The HDZ Club's position will be presented by the respected Djuro Popioč.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83655	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues, respected colleagues from the union. Here we are today the final text of the Labour Act, after 5 months of first reading. First, I would like to conclude that the Labour Act is therefore a fundamental legal framework that regulates labour market relations between employers and employers, or how this law defines employees, employees, employees, employees, and in particular life, this relationship is based on a contract. So, contract work between employers and workers. And equally, this law is important for the business side, employers as well as for the labour side. However, in the light of its importance and the consequences of this law, it exceeds the definition of the framework of the relationship between employers and workers and already, in an important way, determines the economic movements, competitiveness and success of national economies. Because of the fact that the adoption of this law is forced under the conditions of the Croatian economy's complete failure, the key issue must be to what extent does this law contribute to the country's economic recovery and to what extent does it contribute to reducing the dramatic number of unemployed? We have heard today's enthusiasm about a figure of only 303,000 unemployed, unfortunately today, but it is worth noting that it never happened, and in the years of the biggest crisis, 2009, 2010, 2011 that during the 7-8 months, this figure is over 290 thousand. It's a real fact about the success of this government. Also when we talk about the record number of seasonal employment, the question is how many young economists, lawyers, engineers and doctors today are working on the Croatian coast of jobs for which they have not been educated, which the community has funded. And that's what I say when I say I don't underestimate any job. The Croatian Parliament reached a conclusion on the first reading calling on the government and trade unions to restore dialogue and reach agreement on issues in question. Today, five months later, we have the results of this dialogue on the benches. 21 pages of the Union's objections and 47 amendments. Now, can you really convince anyone after this that you have had a social dialogue and that you have agreed to anything, and this morning we listen to the announcement of a union leader if something does not happen at the stage of this debate and if the Croatian Parliament adopts this law as proposed that there will be strikes, unrest as it says, constitutional lawsuits etc. We're not talking about 5 months here, we're talking about 2.5 years in which you're scrambling this bill and playing social dialogue. Now, given the union's position, the amount of objections that goes beyond what we've seen so far in this House, you might think that the government has decided to make a dramatic turn and fully accept the views of the business community. For me, however, there is a particularly surprising announcement of the HUP, so the social partner in the Economic and Social Council, which says this, here is a brief quote: "HUP – Croatian Employers' Association received the text of the ZOR on 24 June 2014 which is in line with the relevant resolutions. Unfortunately, the final proposal differs from the one addressed to the co-ordination of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the HUP cannot support it in this form." So a different text of law is sent to government and government coordination than was sent to social partners for discussion. In addition, they say that under conditions of low competitiveness, low investment and difficult business conditions, this law does not contribute to the mitigation of the effects of the crisis in the economy, does not improve business conditions and will not necessarily encourage new employment. What's this all about? As far as I know in the first reading, HUP has supported this law, and how would it now conclude that the law does not contribute to the mitigation of the effects of the crisis in the economy, does not improve business conditions and will not give a strong boost to new employment? And then I wonder why Mr. Minister and you on this side believe us otherwise? And to ask ourselves again how did the government fail to convince the social partners on the part of employers that this Labour Act contributes to economic recovery? It is quite clear why, because the fact that this law does not contribute to anything. Every debate over the ZOR is caused by social tensions, negative social energy, which in itself has bad consequences for economic movements. And when it's still potent with government behavior, then it's pretty clear why we're in this state. One word is unfortunately that in this important area, 2.5 years have been lost in a completely unsuccessful attempt to make a change in a segment that essentially regulates the economic environment with a final complete fiasco. On the table we get the text of a law that is advertised as a major reform of the labour market, which key stakeholders and participants in the process consider unacceptable, bad and worse than the existing one. So what's the point of it, which is the secret formula of this law that no one else sees except this government and those who support it. Of course, it is now seen that most in the Parliament are passing laws, governments and ministers are boasting about reforms and we are sinking deeper and deeper. And it speaks in vain of the opposition, the unions warn in vain, indicate the businessmen, publishes the Financial Times, the European Commission, the World Bank. This train without a timetable is still driving without a driver and without a detour, and as the Prime Minister promises it himself, we continue further harder and more persistently but unfortunately he does not hear and see that he is on the wrong track and that he is driving in the wrong direction. One business community survey assessed the state of 12 key areas that define to the greatest extent the conditions in which the economy operates, including the labour market and the relations defined by the ZOR. Of the 12, 11 areas is highly negatively assessed, including the labour market, and they say they are considered to be in critical condition. But it is clear that any individual intervention in any law can only make the situation worse and this attempt once again confirms it. For 2.5 years, we have witnessed a series of random changes to the law. Often in the same year of one and the same, or pre-determined settlements and tax laws, etc. which clearly shows that there is no clear and consistent economic policy that defines the wider economic reform context. If there was a comprehensive reform plan, if there were a clear economic policy framework, then the important changes to the Labour Act would also make it easier to respect social partners, for arguments from the other party, for requests, for expectations. Here, there was also the law that was mentioned, the Law of Labour when it was just like that and the changes that we made in the last government. My first law I defended here was the Labour Act at the end of 2009 and he was in line with the social partners and he got the consent of the Economic Social Council. Further and further, all changes were also part of the context of a comprehensive reform plan and economic recovery plan. What's happening now, when you don't know what the new law is about, what are the effects and goals, then it's logical that everyone is buried in their trenches, using heavy artillery, trying to trade in demands and discounts, so the rules of the game imposed by this government are adapted. The result of such a game is that today we have on the table, the general dissatisfaction of social partners and such a law that has not solved anything, does not achieve any goals, and has contributed to new divisions, has made the relationship to entrepreneurship worse and obviously and significantly violated some of the rights of workers defined by the existing law. This whole process has also done great social damage. We have also witnessed the interruption of social dialogue several times, and then quacks the continuation of social dialogue, and it is not understood that social dialogue must be a key instrument for managing social change. However, we are unfortunately witnessing what level of dialogue exists today within the ruling structure itself, so it is quite clear that the government is unable to encourage or lead social dialogue. This law, as it has been until now, will bring the majority to parliament, but if we think we are done, I regret to remind you of the recommendations made by the European Commission since 2.6.4., it reads on page 9 of point 3 "The obligation to implement the second phase of the reform of the Labour Act." and this next consultation with the social partners, primarily with regard to working time, layoffs, prevention of further segmentation, etc. Now, really, here you are by this date in 7 months you couldn't at least do it so we don't exhaust ourselves again for the next few months in the implementation of the second phase of the Labour Law reform. The obligation for this is March 2015. But it seems to me that you actually believe that you won't have to do it anymore because that's how another government will come, the ability to take over what you're not capable of. Here, for these reasons, we cannot support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83656	To this presentation of fellow Drinker on behalf of the club, you have replicas from that same club. The first one will be presented by Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83657	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, fellow Drinker, you mentioned in your debate the number of unemployed, he's 302,000 today. Now that we're only 120 days back, 4.3th number was 385 147, so in 120 days 83,000 new jobs, that's 700 jobs every day, 700. And now imagine that chasing economy modeled by this Kukuriku government and for the next 120 days, so by the end of the month 11 could fall below 200 grand in this way. Because what happens, there's a problem among the people who register, and he says something else. 5 months 2012 1,389 thousand, and in 5 months 2014 1 342 thousand, so 47,000 less employees. Now, when you say what the minister said today, that you have opened 180 thousand new jobs, we simply execute ourselves in those numbers and we can conclude that our minister Mrsic has succeeded, meaning what is bothering Europe as well, and that is the logic because if the number of unemployed increases, the number of employees falls. He made it possible at the same time to drop the number of employees and the number of unemployment, it is a new Croatian patent which, as well as fiscalisation, we will probably have to perform beyond the borders of this beautiful one because it has nothing to do with the real state of affairs, it does not have, it is some kind of recipes from the small workshop Miranda Mrsić, as well as this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83658	The replica matches the esteemed...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83659	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, I will not be able to repeat this recipe because it is obviously very complex, but the fact is that we have the dynamics of the employment rate, the unemployed we have every year equal, so unfortunately in this too short season there is always more employment, here, on the jobs that the tourism sector is looking for, but the problem is this government that for an unknown reason, we know why, this is the result of the entire economic policy that in just one year the number of unemployed has increased by 80,000. So this seasonal, seasonal effect can't make up for it and the problem is that it's from the real sector, so from production, from the area of creating new values, the largest number of jobs lost. Do the waiters, do the cooks, do the maids, do this. Of course, people are lucky to be able to do anything. But this does not solve the problem or economic recovery, and it is not a sign of economic recovery and what the minister says is that they are employed, the government does not hire anyone or employed, unfortunately what is employed in its repositories and does not create jobs, jobs as many people have already said today, open entrepreneurs, businessmen, opens something that needs to create a new value, and unfortunately this does not happen in a positive direction in Croatia, we are constantly recording the fall of employees in this sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83660	Second replica, Đurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83661	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, I'm going to talk about something I didn't hear you mention, that is, about today's uncertainty which becomes a rule based on this law, let's say, a covert outsourcing article 10 or in article 12 is really working for a certain time is a rule, not an exception. So Articles 34 and 121, which are contradictory to each other, which is precisely what pregnant women cannot get fired from one article in pregnancy, but 15 days after applying those rights of pregnancy, they can get it. What's problematic is there's uncertainty, it's created, especially in women, especially in young women, in pregnant women. I would say that this law could also be called the law on the depopulation policy of the SDP, and as..., that is, the first article should be that pregnancy should be declared a criminal offence. Unfortunately, through all these articles of the law, there is no legal certainty in the work of women during pregnancy, after pregnancy, to get her job, we have no safety in young people, no safety in anything. And you said well, this law is likely to be voted by most, but thank God, there are changes and changes to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83662	And the third replica, respected Martina Banic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83663	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Drinker, here's my replica is on the trail of what my colleague twilight said. I also have the most concerns about the position of women, especially young women within the Labour Act. We know that 53% of women are unemployed right now, that women are far less active than men, and mostly when they work, they work in the underpaid sector. This law actually further changes the position of workers, of course to the worse, will deepen discrimination against women, and then the economic dependence of women will deepen, and after that economic dependence will naturally spread economic violence. What is particularly worrying, it concerns me, too, is the position of pregnant women, as well as other persons who use birth rights and parental rights, so there is no protection of the conditions of return to the jobs of those persons. In fact, what I could conclude is that this law actually produces feminization of poverty, and in some ways everything that we have done as a state in the field of gender equality is being destroyed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83664	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of Jadranka Kosor and HGS. Excuse me, Mrs. Kosor, the minister would like to take your word for it. Minister Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83665	I'll go out next time, so I need to convince my HDZ colleagues to look at the current Labour Act, including this Labour Act, and let them show me where we made it worse for pregnant women, where we allowed the pregnant woman not to be protected. What we have added, and we have added in Article 34 in the event of the death of an employer, a natural person, by stopping the craftsman by law or by deleting the trader from the register. And in agreement with the trade unions, we added item 4 with the aim of getting that pregnant woman and all the protected categories that couldn't be deleted because the law wouldn't allow them to get severance and get the notice period. Gentlemen, protected categories that included pregnant women, since the law did not allow them to be cancelled, that they were fired, remained employees of that company that no longer existed and they were, had neither the right to severance nor had the right to cancel, but were waiting for the company to disappear and then were still employees of that company, were not able to quit because the company was no longer a business, the employer died and they did not take advantage of it, what other categories of workers used that were not protected and then they got what... Therefore, nowhere in this law has we worsened the position of pregnant women, they are still maximumly protected. The highest level of protection, see the EU Directive and our legislation, will show that the level of protection remained high. And here we protected them because we made it possible for them to get severance and have a deadline, without this, they didn't have it. We've had cases that the company was liquidated four or five years ago, and that there are still formal employees in that company because there's no one to fire them. And don't bend and complain to the public, so no deterioration in pregnant women's status compared to the existing law, this new law does not pass. In this way, however, we solve one legal gap and allow these protected categories not only of pregnant women but also of union commissioners and all those protected by law to receive severance. I note, therefore, that we have put in Article 34(4).
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83666	At this Minister's intervention, we have a replica of Gjurjice Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83667	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, I'm in the replica of a colleague from the club, but I'm glad you called, and I'm asking nicely to explain this collapsing of Article 34 and Article 121. Implicit is said to remain this article 34th and 121st contradictor. So Article 34 prohibits the termination of pregnant women, 15 days after the use of those rights when they have, but Article 121 in reality tells us that only the cancellation period does not run during pregnancy, which then implies that a pregnant woman can cancel a working contract. You might want to explain it a little bit better.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83668	Minister Mrsic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83669	So... you have absolute protection for a woman who is pregnant or an employer who has the knowledge that a woman is pregnant can't cancel a pregnant woman. Your wife has absolute protection of your resignation, and that’s what the article says, and that’s absolutely what you’re doing. Therefore, it is not a contradiction definitely both, therefore, and in the current Labour Act is the absolute protection of pregnant women and in this law is the absolute protection of pregnant women. Therefore, you have an article 34 where you are completely prohibited from firing those and pregnant women and all those who are protected categories. And I don't see any problems here, so let's not create a problem where it's not there because article 34 makes it very clear that the employer can't quit a pregnant worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83670	Now we've explained it. We're continuing the show on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the club Jadranka Kosor and HGS, the respected Mrs Jadranka Kosor will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83671	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with Associates. I will begin with your finding at the beginning of today's debate when you started to explain the proposed Labour Act and when you said "the fact that all sides are equally unhappy shows that the Labour Act is balanced". I think we have a problem with that finding or that message because my opinion is that if everyone is unhappy, and since everyone is talking about everyone, so I assume that in this social partnership one of the partners is the Government, that would mean that the government is unhappy. So if they're unhappy, then the law is balanced, I draw the conclusion that everyone is still unhappy. And I don't think that's a good start for the Labour Act, such an important law that everyone expects a lot of people talk about, so some people haven't read it all the way, but everyone has something to say especially in politics, of course with full-fledged unions, workers and employers. I think that the Labour Act should have been with as much agreement as possible, I think it was necessary to discuss the law on the Economic and Social Council and it was one of those laws in whose debate on the proposal of this law that I think it was necessary to take part, in any way, with the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister himself, in the conversation with the partners and representatives of the Croatian Employers' Association and with the representatives of the unions. That would be logical because this is a huge law that touches both those who are employed and those who are unemployed and those who are the only ones who open jobs, which are employers. So the Labour Act in my opinion, and I think it's okay to speak in politics the same way if we tried to change the Labour Act minimally, in fact only three articles, and actually in one provision in 2010, then I think it's necessary today. Not because of the European Commission, which we have seen and has already been mentioned in its recommendations clearly requires interventions in the Labour Act, so the second phase of change, until next year. Not because of the EU, not because of the European Commission, but because of the Croatian labour market. And, of course, no one is, and that's logical for workers' rights to be reduced in that sense. I'm going back to the employers, and I don't think it would be a good idea for this debate to come up with some conclusion that we're talking exclusively about protecting workers through union proposals, rather than really having to do it in the market economy, and for that, for many years now, we've identified protection and all those employers who honestly, honestly, are doing their jobs honestly because they are ultimately employers and states. Can employers work and be successful, produce, sell, acquire, expand without competent, quality, educated, trained and of course well-paid workers? I can't. Can I expect it to be successful if at any time and at any time they want to do anything to get rid of their workers as soon as possible? I can't, who's going to make them. Can the state as an employer without educated and capable civil servants, doctors, nurses, professors? He can't. Can it be without all these people, and I could list both soldiers and police officers if they're not well paid, if they don't have good conditions, if their employer and this is the government that doesn't allow good working conditions? I can't. So do workers in all these situations have to be paid well? Of course, yes, what kind of question is that, but I'm asking him because of how we talk today, especially politicians often talk about it, economists, media, associations, so on the necessity of changing labour legislation. And everyone's talking and everybody's looking and everybody's got their own suggestions. And how long does that take? It's been going on for years. There in 2010, we even had a union action in collecting signatures for a referendum requests that some of the provisions of the Labour Act that we were proposing at the time, it was only about the long-term sustainability of collective agreements and that collective agreements could not be the same when, for example, GDP grew 6%, or when 6% or 7% fell, this was the case. So for all these years, ladies and gentlemen, we haven't really moved out of place. Today, for those who were against 2010 about these minimal changes to the Labour Act. Many of those who were then against today, etc., but well, politics is the one that creates the frameworks and the unions were always and then in 2010 and today were actually against it. What is the fact in the first reading of this Law The Association of Employers has supported the Law, now the Croatian Employers' Association is against. My opinion is that they do not object to this proposed law, that is, to the final proposal of the Law, but that they are indeed and truly dissatisfied. Among other things, they point out and complain about the over-indulgence of small and medium-sized employers, the schedules of working hours, due above all to legal uncertainty, and this is one of the alarms that should ring the alarm regardless of what employers and trade unions are talking about. If some law opens up the possibility of legal uncertainty at any level, then that is a major obstacle to the adoption of the law. And the enforceability of the law itself. However, we have seen that employers have also complained to the European Commission or representatives of the European Commission or the European Union, and that is not good. What do the unions suggest? Here are 47 amendments that I am certain of, and I will now support the Government can accept, or the ruling majority in the Croatian Parliament absolutely without any problems, because these are the proposals for amendments that really stand on real feet and really propose and just align with some other laws. For example, they propose interventions in Article 121 concerning a cancellation period that does not run during vacations, paid leave and temporary inability to work, I think it can be accepted without any difficulty. In addition, Articles 32, 34 and 35 concerning interrelationships and harmonisation with the wording of the Law on maternity and parental support. So, I don't see any reason why it is not immediately and fully agreed in talks with government representatives. Article 48 on a user who may not use the work of the same established worker for an uninterrupted period and for a period of more than 1 year. So then Article 60, which regulates, here is something that I think the government, or the ruling majority can really do without having any debate being accepted because it says, it explains what time is working during the official journey and is said in the union's proposal that working time is considered to be the time the worker spends doing jobs for the employer and at least in accordance with his schedule of working time. And there are such amendments, therefore interestingly, here's interesting and it's really worth the attention that unions are, and as far as I've seen it, all the union centres are actually proposing to the amendment in Article 86 to delete the point at the end of the sentence and add the words "or another life partnership". So these unions are already coordinating the Law on Working with the Life Partnership Act. It's something that really deserves special attention, that the government has proposed a Life Partnership Act I don't understand why, for example, the Government has not accepted such a simple amendment. What I am particularly interested in is that provision, that is, provisions that speak of the ban on night work, Mr. Minister. Thus, the ban on night labor should be returned for pregnant women, parents of children under 3 years of age or for single parents up to 6 years of age. And it is good that the biller gave up the first version so that the employer could offer a second job when talking about pregnant women. Finally, as far as this night's work is concerned, my club will also propose an amendment and I believe that no problem with accepting that work, because I believe that we all agree that pregnant women, women, or parents of young children, especially when we talk about single parents really shouldn't work at night because there are a number of issues being raised and I think it's kind of a zero point to start from. So in the end, if these amendments are accepted which I have mentioned, which we are going to propose, which actually seem to be realistic and which I believe would in no way be unacceptable to the employers, then we will in any way consider supporting or not supporting the final draft of the law. It would be time for the law of course to go into the third reading, that once again at the table all together, all three partners sit down and remove these doubts which we, I hope, are really cold heads talking about today, but given the deadlines, I'm not convinced that this proposal has any chance at all of a chance to pass. But it would be, I'm usually the opponent of the third law reading, but in this case it would be a really good step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83672	Thank you. We have a report of a colleague Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83673	So here you have at the very beginning of your presentation highlighted this situation that in fact this bill in some way no one supports both foreign unions and foreign employers and oppositions, and even some of the ruling ones have certain objections. Well, I think it would be hard to actually find any changes to the labour legislation at this point that most would really support, and it would be particularly interesting to see what an amendment to the labour law that the union would support or our Croatian trade unions. On the other hand, in some better times, it would all be easier together, but today's times are so conflicting, so bad and so hard that we can't really agree more or less as a society or more practically on state holidays or on working days, or on some things that touch our lives in the basics, let alone the Labour Act. What I would really agree with you is that the minister tried a little here, a little over there, and what he lacks in my opinion in this bill is that he lacks actually economic policy. You can't use the Labour Act to try to define economic policy. If you don't have an economic policy like this government doesn't have, then you're trying to raise competitiveness at the expense of workers, but in fact, the whole economy doesn't make you more competitive. And then here, in some ways, the minister finds himself in unprotected grapes because, in fact, if changes in labour legislation were part of systematic measures to strengthen the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, it would probably be easier for him to actually defend these positions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83674	The replica matches the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83675	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you said who would actually accept the amendments to the Labour Act, any changes. This would mean, however, that we give up any changes, but it would mean something else, that you think and I'm sure you don't think that the existing Labour Act is ideal because remember the time when it was being passed and how it changed that there were a lot of dissatisfactions. Therefore, we must amend the Labour Act, it is also in the recommendations as you know the European Commission in one part, but not because of them, but to do everything to make sure that those problems we have already identified, seen and considered not good, let's say that the longevity of collective agreements. Personally, I think it's something that we really need to change, we have to adapt to it, we all have to accept that it's necessary because no employer, not a state, not a private person, that so simply I can't pay the same wages and give and all the same guaranteed rights at a time when it's very bad and it's very good. So when it's really bad, we have to squeeze, when it's good, we have to make it bigger somehow. That's what this is about. But I agree, often, changes to such an important law to the extreme borders are politicized, and that's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83676	Thank you. Until the break, we will hear the views of the club HSU, which will be presented by the respected Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83677	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. HSU is particularly interested in the quality of this law because we believe that this law or the quality of this law is reflected in one way or another in more than 2 million and 700 thousand citizens, so all those who are working but also those who live on past work plus those who are unemployed at the moment. So, from this law comes many short-term but long-term rights of Croatian citizens and this is a very, very serious job. In the first reading, the Croatian party of pensioners publicly supported the SDSS's proposal to restore social dialogue in the Republic of Croatia because it was in crisis and heavy words fell between the social partners especially between a social partner and a minister. So in such an atmosphere we were sure we could not make or in some way negotiate a good Law on working for another reading. The fact is that in time from first reading to second reading, social dialogue is renewed, which does not mean that it was of quality. The formal conclusion of the Croatian Parliament is respected and there is nothing to object to. Did this social dialogue bring quality? I see that it is not, and in my view the balance in dissatisfaction or dissatisfaction of all participants is no confirmation that the law is well balanced. You know maybe one article of the law is too important, and that five others and completely irrelevant are not producing any effects or harm or referring to a very small number of employees. Therefore, it can always be discussed whether we have actually established only formal or real social dialogue and whether the social dialogue in the Republic of Croatia produced quality. I don't think so. The ministry has the right to decide as it has decided that despite the lack of social dialogue, it goes with the bill to politicians, before parliamentary lawmakers. But we are now taking over and we must take responsibility for whether we accept this law, whether we will adopt certain amendments, certain improvements, or not. So, the ball has been transferred here and since today we are responsible for what the Labour Act will be like. I am sure that everything that was not worse than what is now, that we had one quality Social Partnership Office and that a lot before it came to the Croatian Parliament, ironed all these years back in that office, that passions were calming down, that each point and point agreed and that sooner or later we would have to go back to that way of work. Neither will the Prime Minister nor will the Minister of Labour and the Prime Minister negotiate every point and mark. And it's not necessary, it's not necessary. Social partners can handle a lot on their own. Of course, there should be patience and time, patience. Given the number of amendments here, it means it may have been six more months to bring it together. I don't think everyone else is in their positions and everyone's got their attitudes confused. There is a significant difference in the behaviour of union centres prior to first reading and this second reading. I have to admit that they profited, that they profited in their relationship with this matter, that I have never received on a table this high-quality amendments and that they publicly admitted to the Minister what was well done. So they didn't set themselves up as in many other cases, and priors opposed. So open the door for negotiations and a continuation of talks. I'll do it again, wrong again, and I'm wrong. Excuse me, use the term of the negotiations to pass the law. There should be social partners here before we can figure out where we're going. Are all the institutes that are being invested in the world, are we immediately ready to accept them and install them into legislation? I still haven't got enough evidence that flex security is the notion that can be combined, that flexibility and security can go together. But we like to play with it and clean start and outsourcing, lots of English words. We translate them, though, we're not like Italians who put them directly into their laws. Let's take one small advantage of our legislation. But the fact is, it doesn't have to mean that our relationship with the European Commission, with the European Union, is a one-way street relationship. We have the right and obligation to consider our work world, we have the right and the obligation to preserve our specificities, and on behalf of the Croatian party of pensioners, our members and supporters, I say this is too important to play with. We are interested in strictly stable and secure jobs. It's a retirement system, a health care system. We're not interested in fraud in the world of work that someone manipulated the workers, that he didn't pay them. For that, you will never get support from us, but you need to strive for safe forms of work. I was recently at a meeting in Rome where employment security is once again advocated as a cornerstone of social stability of society. So we don't have to be constantly creative, constantly innovating, let's hold on, evaluate what's worth and improve that. We're looking for jobs that aren't temporary. Have we stopped, haven't we got creativity after the '80s that we have engineers, that we can go to the world of work with quality and competitive products? This law won't solve it. The problem is somewhere else. I also don't think he should be freaked out in norms. I would further explain the amendments to the HSU, which we did not give all the amendments, thanks to the unions, give us a good basis and a good explanation. I'm sure if 80% of the applicants accept them not to make a mistake, but his will is as much as he accepts them, I don't want to influence that part, but in my humble court, 80% of these amendments have their heads and tail and it's in place. Whether it's an argument about a better statement, whether it's about those institutes that weren't in the first reading. So the law also includes institutes that were not in the first reading, so around them there could be no dispute because they did not exist in the first reading. Therefore, he rightly responds to today’s discussion of something that the social partners did not discuss at all. So we have an amendment to Article 10, which is brand new, is about the reduction of employers among employers in a related society. That part wasn't done, it's a newspaper. I'm not saying that she's bad but certainly does not belong to Article 10, she deserves a whole new chapter as employers within related societies can give in to each other in case one has no job. It's nothing unusual, it's not forbidden, it's just that there's got to be some security for pay, that there's no interruptions in working relationships, that there's no interruptions in continuity, that as it's said in the explanation that labour inspection can monitor the traceability of all procedures. Furthermore, of course in Article 14 if the employer is obliged to report a pension and health worker within 48 hours then it is logical that the time limit for the worker to submit a copy of the application for compulsory pension and health insurance is too long for 15 days and we propose that it be 8 days. Furthermore, we have in Article 78 where it is suggested that the worker whose employment is terminated is entitled to a proportionate part of the annual leave. That means he wouldn't make it, say, if he left at nine months, he'd have achieved a proportionate share of the annual vacation in nine months. In practice, I don't think that's correct because the right to an annual vacation is realized once and if there is no interruption of working relationship for more than 8 days then no one has the right to deny the vacation days with a proportionate approach. And that's not some big money, and no one's going to save money if the worker retires and now deny him five days a year because he's going to the 9th, not the 12th month. The union formulation is better here, and we suggest it. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Furthermore, we have in Article 112 of the amendment concerning two paragraphs. So when does the work relationship stop? It's written by the death of an employer, a natural person, or by the end of a craftsman. We would like to add and so on would like to add to the completion of the liquidation process. By opening the procedure itself, it does not mean that the life of the companies has stopped. And in the sub-paragraph, or y, that in subparagraph 4, we have something that says, it says the same in subparagraph 5. It says here that a working relationship stops when a worker turns 65 and 15 years of retirement. I'd add at least 15 years because he can have more and the decimal is unless the employer and the worker agree differently. And under point 5, we have an agreement between workers and employers. So it turns each other off. If it says under point 5. it does not need to be written in sub-paragraph 4, or in point 4, and it refers to the same. We are further on article 151, co-decision and the previous consent of the Working Council is required. Of course, when giving under subparagraph 3 when firing a worker to a person with disabilities, we believe that there should be an agreement of the Working Council. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So these are both technical but, for God's sakes, fundamental amendments. Wow, I'm almost done with time. Of course, we also have amendments to extend the scope of collective agreements where the better formulation proposed for Article 203i for Article 232. as well as the amendment to Article 225 where all participants are placed in the electoral process, so that they can receive unpaid leave not only from council members, MPs, candidates for president but also candidates for mayors, mayors and mayors. And here, of course, our satisfaction will be greater by this law, as much as the competent ministry and government adopt very well-founded and well-founded amendments will decide when we get information about the mood of the government and the ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83678	Thank you. We've got reports of replicas, but we'll hear them at 3:00 after the break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83679	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue the debate. We have two replicas at the presentation of our colleagues. Miss twilight, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83680	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of the Hrelja, I can really agree with you in part of your debate. And when I talked about births, or maternity leave, or women's problems and women's employment, then I knew exactly what I was talking about, and just one part of your debate was about it. Namely, you were talking about work security and you were talking about flexibility. It really can't be flexibility, if there's no safety of work, and the safety of work won't be until the economy doesn't start and new jobs start. And indeed one of the foundations and stability of society is all of this, and the opening of new jobs and the launch of the economy, and then the safety of work, and then we can also talk about flexibility, then we can talk about the assumption of this flexibility and redistribution will also be made to women, meaning to mothers who have small children, that all of them will need infrastructure from schools, kindergartens, playgrounds, which will have working hours, where women will be able to send their children. Until that moment, a woman is unprotected, and that's why I said that this law can be called a depopulation law, because there is uncertainty, government, young people leaving, women are insecure, they won't be born. In some ways, even when I said that in some ways, it is an impression that this article 1 could really be in the introduction that pregnancy is a crime. That's why, that's why, everything I've been saying, I've been saying not only from experience, but from experience and other people, from the experience of young women who have just entered the labour market or who have already. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83681	It's time, comrade twilight. The answer of my colleague Hrelja, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83682	Dear colleagues, I was talking about job security in general because it is a safe job, a well-paid job is good for all social systems, starting with a pension, health system, so it is generally good for development, for family planning among other things, etc. Of course, I doubted in my debate whether it's possible to combine 2 terms of security and flexibility at all, whether it's just modernism or really there's something like that, some kind of compound that's functional and efficient. And what I would like to answer to you, I know that today everyone would like to have the best possible conditions for family planning, but both of us and you and I have learned some other things and we have been born in some conditions that were neither near this, which are neither near this standard, there was uncertainty, so I agree that this affects, but it is not a crucial factor for population policy. Of course, we need to make sure that we do our best, but that definitely depends on many other factors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83683	Thank you, too. Next replica, Domagoj Milosevic. He's gone. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS club, the debate was shared by Gjurkovic and Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83684	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honored ministers with associates and associates, colleagues and colleagues. The labour law is clear that one of the fundamental laws in Croatia, not only related to the work of union relations, i.e. workers, workers, employers, state, government, government, or this Croatian Parliament, is unequivocally that in all discussions and until the first reading and these 5 months, while we have essentially been given second reading and disagreements that continue to exist between the proposings and trade unions and employers as key ones, for which we wanted and our intention in that conclusion, which we last brought to the debate at the first reading, was to sit down and find something that was most favourable and best. The most favourable and best of course not only, we heard in the debates, I feel free to say it on behalf of the HNS Club, it's not just economic growth and development. What's best is that we actually protect workers' rights. It has often been debated here whether this law is enough to protect pregnant women, whether it is adequate for people with disabilities compared to their rights to protect them in general because the rights are mostly equal, is just a question of whether the protection that is needed at some point for certain sensitive groups is adequate today. Is this today the time we call often the time of an open capital market where capital dictates everything? Not really. So this government is also making it clear that it wants and looking through the budget and protection of pensions and social rights to really show and show this social character and character where it protects those most sensitive groups and the largest groups in terms of pensioners. Similarly, with respect to all citizens and citizens who are in a working relationship or who need to go into work, the same way is done to protect the most vulnerable groups of citizens. However, it is clear that when we are discussing this bill that we have to make sure that it has to and should be passed, it is not necessary to be adopted because some harmonisation is required from the EU and we have some recommendations, but we really need to improve this Labour Act, because even most clubs and trade unions and employers are ready and want to pass a new law, it is only a question which is the text, which are the conditions. Obviously, I cannot agree with everything and I think that my colleague Kosor clearly said there is no possibility but the law must be passed, it must be improved for competitiveness and for the sake of correcting certain situations and points of the law where the respected minister also said that certain sentences were added to protect certain groups. We can also see from the unions that they've made some proposals even to say, they've been going a little ahead of time in that social sphere that's related to the life partnership. So they all participated in a certain way, in a positive way, but apparently the legislator or legislator of law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia had to go with a proposal like this that sublimes what everyone wants, not as much as employers and trade unions want, but this law should in any case be passed. There's a lot of amendments and political parties and unions, something like that, something that matches, something that supports something, something that's different. I believe that the government will look at certain articles, and I believe that regardless of how it usually is, it is mostly positions, and not opposition, I believe that the minister and the government will look at all the amendments and there are amendments that need to be supported that further improve, give a broader picture for both employers and trade unions. Of course, the very fact that what's most controversial, what's proved to be the most controversial in this law, is this unequal schedule of working time. When we look at the experiences of countries in Europe that have made some progress on economic particular competitiveness, most often it is mentioned in Germany, I think, of course, that it is difficult to compare all economies and us in relation to others at all, because they are very different basics of both this real sector and the share in the market and technology and the history itself in the very essence of all countries in terms of economic development. However, we can view one of Slovakia as perhaps a slightly better example which is easier and closer to our citizens when we talk about the competitiveness of the economy, when we talk about some right of workers, legislation regarding work where we have an extremely large liberalisation in terms of and layoffs and employment like in Germany, but I say clean Slovakia because we may be able to compare more easily with one country which was also economically behind us what some say before the 1990s, it entered the EU before us and it got the advantage it took during the progress, not the recession to say so, but they all reacted to one liberalisation of the labour market that allowed both employment and lay off and extremely much, which is also controversial in all the discussions when it discussed the role of employment agencies. Employment agencies in Slovakia are one quite normal activity that functions independently of the Employment Service and on all other ways in which private companies employ citizens. Surely, when we are also discussing talks with the trade unions, employers must think the same way and keep in mind and in the adoption of this bill that the largest number of workers working in the private sector, let's not forget it, is not included in the union. The largest number of unemployed and young people today are primarily interested in quality employment, good income and the possibility of progress. So when we talk about these three social partners that needed as much as possible, it's obviously the maximum that can be arranged at the moment. Let us not forget that there is one partner who could not participate here even organized, and this partner is workers on one side of A who work in private employers and are not unionally organised, and other partners are unemployed who are primarily looking for the right opportunity to work so that they can have family and dignity and acquire those four walls so that they can live and create in the future. So when we talk about three social partners, then we have to take care of those citizens who are not involved in participating these negotiations, why are they not because they are not organised but are not realistically those who expect and wait for work have... The job, the ones who want tomorrow and will come to the labour market and they are interested in basically just getting them a decent salary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's not forget one more fact, no high-quality worker employer will surely fire, no quality worker employer will unstimulate it, but will stimulate it and allow it to further matter in the interest of normal profit of the owner but also the interest of the worker. If we get lost, I can say it freely on behalf of the HNS club often in discussions where things are positioned that there is only profit and exploitation. This is a law that ensures that this relationship is professional, correct, that it is dignified in these relations and the protection of rights both of them. In terms of agency employment, I think we must understand one thing that we have decided with this Croatian independence, we have also decided on a market economy. And in the labour market and services market, we need to open space and agencies because the choice of citizens who will work through a certain employer's agency tomorrow is nevertheless primarily the choice of that citizen. No agency owns anyone, nor can it be. Therefore, if we open up space and the agencies work and hire and that they create a relationship with the employer, it is nevertheless the decision of the one who wants to work through the agency in relations whether they are at a certain or indefinite time. Pretty controversial as we can see are certain items around the so-called so-called. the employer's concession under the special rules of the company's daughter or other employer. So is it realistic that, at the moment of the crisis, it is better that this worker and employee have the opportunity to continue to work for six months or that employer should declare a technological surplus and send it to the stock market. To whom again? The burden of the state. This partial liberalisation of labour legislation, let's try to make it my reality to think about it, so it's better than declaring itself a tech surplus worker, so it's sent to the stock market, and it's eventually called after six or nine months. So is it better to have an employee in the process of continuous work, continuous knowledge acquisition, communication than to be separated from the work process? Is separation from the work process not only depressing for a person who loses his job but is not even good for his further progress. This Law is just a good basis, a good basis for negotiations between partners to continue, it is a good basis to advance the existing law is it necessary to change it, but it is a good basis if it is possible to agree and further improve it but we must bring it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83685	Thank you, too. We have one replica of Jadranka Kosor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83686	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Gjurkovic, you also told him about the need for social partnership and mentioned the fourth partner we talk about, which is more than 303, 302 thousand unemployed. And so I also support your idea that, and I personally represent that we are discussing the Labour Act devoid of any demagogy because here you have also highlighted a good example of the amendments of the unions that are very correct, so here they refer to the law that we are going to debate in the final form of a life partnership tomorrow. And I think a large number of these amendments really can be accepted by the government. But when I talk about demagoggy, who will dare to talk today, for example, about the proposed amendments, that is, the remarks made by the Croatian Employers' Association, will hardly be anyone, because then it would turn out that we support those who exclusively want to exploit workers and that is not the case. Because here are the employers also proposing here about those employers who employ 5 or 5 workers that in the event of cancellation they do not have to specifically explain, for example. I state that their amendment and that remark. So it would be good for all the political balls to drop absolutely and completely to land and encourage the government to once again sit down before the final vote on the law. And that indeed all those amendments that are on track and amendments to the Association of Employers and amendments of union centres accept. And that it is still a law that will satisfy at least one part of the interested.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83687	Thank you. Answer, colleague Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83688	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected colleagues reality and rationality is something that I have tried to present on behalf of the club by discussing this Labour Act because by bringing up and mentioning the unemployed who essentially have no right to debate at all as social partners, we are talking about 300,000 today, there were 380 of them, I believe tomorrow there will be fewer but new generations that have no right than to find something that we will bring, they would be just as well involved in certain discussions because tomorrow is about their future. Likewise, when we discuss employees, workers in certain private companies that are not trade unionly organised, whether it's an organization because they're two members or five members, the question is whether they'll even organize because they could organize themselves today to get the conditions, that they wanted to, that they didn't know what. But not to be in what, to be realistic, the reality is that it's less organized in unions than it actually does in private companies, and it's one fact that we need to know the same thing and keep in mind when we pass this law. When we talk about the representation of those who have negotiated and the legitimacy of the Government to propose such a law that is not definitely in line with the HUP and the trade unions, but that it is the government that must represent interests and those who are not involved in trade unions and those who are unemployed and who want to work. Because what I'm saying is that the example of young people today is because they're the most endangered group, they can't and they don't want to discuss much about the Labour Act, but they just want to work, create, pay, because the fact of great interest for 1600 kuna shows that they want to work, that at this point even that money isn't so...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83689	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Club of the New Wave and Natalija Martinčević-Vesna Škara Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83690	Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. There's a lot of things being said today, so here I am going to try to have a slightly different approach. Today, of course, we re-regulate or derivate the Labour Act, in some ways harmonize it with what prevails in the European Union. However, when you look at the state and unemployment and social movements in Europe itself in the last year, Europe had 27.3 million unemployed, hence the working-age population, which is the historical maximum. Salary cuts, atypical forms of work result in growth in poverty and an increase in gaps between the rich and the poor. Flexible forms of work, temporary employment and occasional employment, limited hours of work, low wages are something that dominates EU labour legislation. The objective, as the Commissioner for Employment and Social Affairs said, is to take care not only of job creation but also of their quality in order to achieve a sustainable recovery that will not only reduce unemployment but also of poverty. 60% of European Union employees work for a certain time or occasionally they want to, but cannot find a permanent job and there are particularly vulnerable young people in the European Union. Trends in Europe are limited powers for temporary employment agencies, which the minister is introducing with great engagement. Slovenia, for example, is 25% of agency workers. A significant reduction in social giving has led Bulgaria and Poland to further poverty. For example. They totally, completely gave up supporting the unemployed, while countries with a stronger system of assistance for the unemployed had far greater chances of reducing unemployment. So in such conditions in Europe we regulate our Labour Act. It is certain that our Labour Act is quite rigid and one of the reasons why our economy is not developing properly, however it is not the only one. Therefore, it is not only possible to amend labour regulations to bear responsibility for the poor economic situation. We have, I will remind you, unlike other countries high costs for the pension system, high costs for the health system, high amounts of contributions that increase labour costs in Croatia. The OECD has developed a methodology for measuring the strictness of employment protection regulations and the World Bank also within the Doing Bussiness project. According to their indicators, Croatia belongs to a group of countries with quite high rigidity on the labour market. So they put us somewhere in a group with the countries of the European Union in the periphery, so Greece, Spain, Portugal and some French. Unlike them, our neighbours Slovenia and Hungary have far better labour market flexibility. An additional argument that the Croatian labour market is rigid can also be found on the pages of foreign agencies that provide legal information to international entrepreneurs and investors on potential investment sites. And one such agency on the site offers a brief summary of the main provisions of the Labour Act notes that Croatia continues to face rigorous and uncompetitive regulations and costs of a highly issuing social state. However, what is the real connection between regulation and labour market developments? Legally, so-called. Rigidities that can be the consequence of the Labour and collective agreements and court disputes and conventional practices can practically explain mechanisms that lead to the characteristics of the Croatian labour market, such as low levels of activity and employment, high levels of structural unemployment, high proportion of youth unemployment and long-term employees, high representation of employees in the gray economy and low labour elasticity in GDP. The strict regulation of labour markets through provisions on job protection, wages and other benefits and working hours explicitly and implicitly increase employment and lay-off costs reduces the ability of businesses to adapt to the market, leading to significant segments and dualisation on the labour market. To whom does such rigor really suit? On the one hand, there is a labour market that includes protected workers who are with contracts indefinitely and corresponds to practically strict regulation, while on the other hand it is so-called. secondary labour market where unprotected workers, black workers, occasionally employed young people. So, which employers do not want to regularly hire because of high costs. The government has clearly decided on reforms aimed at strong labour market flexibility, but I underline it must take care of two fundamental assumptions here. Therefore, it must improve dialogue between the social partners and, of course, it is not enough to constantly amend the Labour Act, but other reforms aimed at strengthening the business climate and business activities in Croatia should be implemented with reforms in the labour market. In such a crisis situation as today's government in Croatia, businesses are entering the restructuring process, entering the merger and takeover processes, entering the process of separating parts of companies, dislocating production into other countries, investing in technology and brands, and I don't know anything else, but they usually close down the company. And now what's the fate in that case of workers? There are more frequent changes in jobs, there are inter-terms of unemployment or inactivity. Some groups are quite vulnerable, such as young people entering the labour market, women, older people, people with special needs, and our loss of work almost always means income uncertainty and the threat of exclusion in some way from society. Now is it possible to reconcile the demands of employers and workers with this Labour Act? So, what do employers need? They need flexible labour that is ready to change and constantly adapt and learn, and workers need more precisely those income security and security of finding a new job. And now the question is, can we put these two goals and these two interests together with this law? I think they can be provided enough flexibility to develop competitiveness and ensure safety for those who are damaged by this process, which is so-called. Flex safety. When looking at other countries in Europe, the concept of flexibility is closely linked to the concept of a safety flex and is therefore focused on the flexibility of the labour market with the simultaneous protection of workers. When you look at the example of how Germany solved its crisis period. They introduced mini jobs, so small jobs that helped reduce the work to black so that Germany today has about 2% of the work on black. Italy introduced a pilot program, so-called the voucher scheme. In the agricultural sector, they limited the ability to work for a maximum of 30 days while working in the agricultural sector with a fee in the calendar year of 5,000 euros which is untaxable. Other countries have also introduced a whole series of measures that have increased practical employment mainly over a period of time. In Poland, most Poles do not have a permanent job but work on a contract of action. They do not have a secure job, the right to vacation and contributions to pension and health insurance pay themselves and, of course, if they can. Young people work with a temporary contract of a month, two or three, and that's why last year they had demonstrations and were looking for a new Labour Act. Poland would almost say it has the same problem as us. Incoherence of market needs with education and almost an employer had a problem finding adequate job candidates in the past year. 90% of employers in Poland serve so-called by rotating within the firm when they need to fill in some new open job. Last year, Slovenia had amendments to the Law on Labour in March last year, after five months of negotiations with trade unions. They shortened their notice in the Labour Act from 120 to 80 days. Payments for redundancies in case of excess workers with a permanent labour contract have been introduced. A 25 per cent limit for agency workers has been introduced. The 38 measures were taken by Slovenia for the benefit of employers and only 15 for the benefit of the union. The severances began to decrease progressively depending on the year of the internship. Pension benefits are paid to pensioners, so they spent at least the last five years in the same company. They have very simplified the employment and cancellation procedure, dropped the obligation to sign up for every job in the Employment Service. They introduced temporary employment of the pensioners, provisions under which the pay cut is an official document which can be carried out by court if the employer has not paid the social contributions three months in a row. So, an employee can leave the firm without any further obligation to her and with practically salary paper can be charged in court if the employer doesn't pay his salary. These are, for example, interesting newspapers that our neighbors introduced. We have not yet obtained this flexibility with our legislation and compared to these legal, comparative legal representations, our law is indeed soft in its solutions. And it's already been said here that he's balanced enough. I would almost agree with that, when you look at the edge of the solution that they are in neighbouring countries, in the countries that surround us, in the countries that we belong to today. So, to support or not to support this law, it is difficult to choose between both good and bad solutions. When the amendments of the unions are looked at, they really have their own justifications, and many of them could appreciate it until the vote, and that is why we are appealing perhaps not to go into the third reading, but to seriously consider amendments and one part of these amendments absolutely accepts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83691	Thank you, too. We have three replicas. Drazen Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83692	Oh, thank you. In light of this rigidity issue of legislation, it is now an example of the minister here. We have the Cooperatives Act, now it's going to be in second reading, defense cooperatives. The leaders of the defence cooperatives of Croatian defenders who have low pensions and would like to earn something at this time cannot earn anything, they should volunteer without any compensation to lead the defence cooperative. What does it mean to lead a cooperative? Why? Because the rigid Croatian legislation, and we also on the board, have sent a proposal to the representatives of the Ministry of Defence to talk to Minister Mrsic, does not allow these people, for example, to keep their pensions and that they can still earn something with these defence pensions. It's certainly one of the space actually of that flexibility. So let people go, if they have small pensions and if we cut their pensions and if they can and want to work as Croatian defenders in retirement, open up space for them, give them a chance to earn something else legally. And not that they have to work on black, that they have to write fictitious travel orders and that they have to look for ways to actually fake the state because we haven't opened up space for them to get some extra income. And I've been back to those resources over and over again. These are some resources that need to be freed and given an opportunity in fact to people within these flexibilitys that actually find space for them that in some additional forms they can still make a profit and actually improve their incomes because we are all aware that actually incomes from pensions, however, from all and especially those that are not old regular, will be smaller and in the years to come.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83693	Thank you. Answer, colleague Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83694	My dear colleague, I agree with you. Therefore, it is necessary to maximise the possibility that people who do not have enough money or who simply cannot with their salaries or pensions or already some incomes provide a normal existence so that they can be introduced by those so-called. small businesses where they can practically provide themselves with additional income without additional taxation or any social benefits. For example, Germany 1.2 million inhabitants are using the possibility of working on these small businesses and thus providing themselves with escrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83695	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83696	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Škare-Ozbolt, are pleased to have informed us about the practice in the EU, in various countries starting with Italy, Poland, Germany, etc. and this law our legal proposal of the Labour Act bears the mark E. Which so far seems to me not to have been discussed or recorded. The law on the work of Europeans is, and pays not to say Albanian, right? But what I was about to say is that Europe is taking both the EU and other measures. In fact, there are 25 so-called so-called "25" in the EU. sms – small and small enterprises, so small and medium-sized entrepreneurs for which the European Parliament and the EU singles out quite a number of millions of euros to hire at least one person. That's 25 million new jobs. And that's exactly the solution to unemployment in the EU, you said there were 27 million. Unemployment in the EU would almost be resolved. Of course it goes with certain difficulties, I know it, and they know it, too, that those programs don't work out very well. But this is also a proposal for us to open new jobs, how to increase the number of job openings. Not just in this way, flexibility as you say flexibility, so we'll move the worker and kick whatever we want to to that firm and from this to that one, etc. It's not a solution, not a month's work or 15 days' work and a voucher in agriculture which by the way fails absolutely, it's almost dead. But we also have cooperatives, we have these small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. And that state should intervene to find a lot more... And then it doesn't matter that much just legislation if a man works. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then there's no more apathy or lethargy to which we're all subject by watching even us here in the Parliament, let alone the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83697	Thank you. Answer, colleague Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83698	Dear fellow Grubisic, therefore, when you look at our structure and how we are judged both by Europe and the business community, I speak in the world, so we have very rigid legislation, very rigid and simply afraid, afraid to invest in Croatia, afraid to hire workers in Croatia because simple legislation is what it is, rigidly. When you look at all these other laws, the work of legislation in other countries, therefore, for workers, these legislations are much worse than Croatian. And on this side is a Croatian worker of this kind by the Labour Act, and even the one proposed by the ministry today is much more protected, the fact is that it is more protected. However, still, I purposely cited some of the countries themselves, there is still enough space to be, for example. It is through these small jobs that occasional jobs allow people to make extra profits without paying contributions to a country that is, in fact, mostly, holding back some better wages in the country. When it comes to working for a certain time, we are talking here today about working for a certain time of 3 years, and other countries have prescribed, that work for a certain time in 3 years but it can be extended twice, so it's already working for you for 9 years, that's something. So you have in Croatia today that every 10 years about an employee changes jobs. Therefore, some European solutions are much better, the one that we are now introducing is much better off than what we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83699	Thank you. The last replica of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83700	Thank you very much, thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of Shkare-Ozbolt, it was an excellent idea to present examples from some EU Member States, which is what this is about, how regulated legislation is in EU Member States because it is also a Croatian member of the EU. But, of course, it's interesting to talk about Polish examples, why, because, as we know in all these years of severe crisis, Poland almost touched the crisis. Is one responsible for why it is in the provisions of their laws, i.e. the Law on Labour and Other Laws? Maybe it is, maybe it's just part of that mosaic, but the fact that Poland has a great way of using European funds as well. That 80% of their highways began to be built only by entering the EU and applying to European funds. The fact that Poles live extremely modestly, that on their streets you can hardly see the overpriced cars that are often seen on Croatian streets. So they learned to live with what they had. And that is why it is good, given that both the European Commission and the European Council have made recommendations to the Republic of Croatia that are related to the various legislation that we must comply with by 2015, that this is exactly how we are discussing examples of other countries, because Croatia is certainly not an island.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83701	Thank you. Answer, you won't answer? ... Nice to meet you, thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83702	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. I noticed here this morning at the union gallery, they're not here this afternoon even though we're going to be discussing the same subject this afternoon, and maybe even more interesting than in the first part. Furthermore, you may not notice, but it seems to me that the interest or interest of the public other than the union is not too much for this Labour Act. If this Labour Act were an interest in the public, it might be a day-long transfer, because this law really is affecting the core of the problem of Croatian society. However, a society in which 20 thousand people, young people leave, and over 20 thousand here in the last year abroad are looking for work, more interested or interested in the Labour Act in Germany, and in Austria, and in New Zealand, and in Australia, and in Canada than in Croatia. Those who stayed here, as Alexa Shantic says, "Stay here" or "The sun is far away", they have fallen into apathy and some in lethargy. And in fact, the Labour Act is a lot of them, and simply as we decide here, and we'll decide by raising our hands on Friday, or the Parliament majority, that's what they'll say, that's how it is. Whose objections and amendments to this law we have in hand, well other than parliamentary representatives we have from the unions, and from these independent and all other alliances of independent unions, etc. If we have an employer's amendment to this bill, we don't. Which means that employers, I speak indirectly, are satisfied with this legislative proposal, and that the trade unions have delivered a number of amendments and are fairly well-founded, constructive and in the lives of this country and in the field of work that is feasible and applicable. Therefore, I appeal and call on the minister and his associates to, regardless of the talks and negotiations, agree, whatever you say, concluded between the social partners, to consider these amendments once again. I won't, some of them may even quote in my debate, but here it is, we've been given representatives, but quite certainly government members, Minister of Labour on their benches, on their tables. The EU and here's the law that gets the label E. I don't know why it's marked E, I'll never understand it. If so and if it were European, have you ever wondered if the Germans or Austrians were unhappy with their Labour Law? Is there rebellion, revolution, strike and so on? No, so whether the problem is to rewrite any Austrian or German labour law, and to modify it a little with regard to our opportunities and apply it to us, but here we have a law that says as a flexible tariff in telecommunications, flexes, and even security to that, security so they're speciality, flexibility, I don't know what that would be called. It is said that social justice or the social balance of peace reserves in society, and then we heard here also a statement that every country would also be a valid economy with a human face in which a satisfied worker makes himself and his employer and his own state of well-being, a improvement, so that a satisfied worker, without a satisfied worker, has no satisfaction in general in the country. As they say, without a satisfied peasant, there is no happy state. But for an economy with a human character, we need some other life or work philosophy, and we have clear statements here. The first Minister of Finance that Croatia, therefore the new Minister of Finance, is not telling Mr Linic, that Croatia is clear, saying that Croatia and the citizens of Croatia are in debt slavery, that is one thing. And secondly, there's a neoliberal form of capitalism at work. So that's the group that met in Switzerland, with... at the head and decided how to conquer, globalize the world, the new name of globalisation that actually replaced neocolonalism, and then the factories opened up in Bangladesh, in various Asian other countries, so that cheap labour will make as much profit as possible, and now it's coming back to them by people coming from these countries, from African countries to..., but we're not going to talk about it. How does the Croatian economy make it competitive? Can this be done with the new Labour Act? And now these days the Report of the National Competitiveness Council and the Investment Agency, the State Investment and Competitiveness Agency, came out, are called, in which two Croatian... regions, continental and coastal regions are ranked at about 230 places, very close, 2.3 places, of a total of 260 European regions. Both, both continental and these seas are classified in 230th place,...competitiveness. In doing so, I must say that my great regret is that the Brod-Posavina County, together with Virovitica-Podravska, is the last place in Croatia in Croatia for competitiveness. What will be achieved by the new Labour Law? So maybe something is achieved in that sense that, as I said before, there have been, let's say, certain compromises between these two sides, employers and unions and then the government has broken over their knees and, as they say, brought in, someone here has used the term balanced Labour Act, and someone has said light compromise, it would say neither scream nor pass, as Zagorci say. I'm sorry, Mr. Vice President, but it would actually be best described. And now we're in doubt whether we're going to adopt this law or not, whether we can do it better or not, and here's what I suggest, we also consider these amendments that came to our benches by the unions so that maybe we can make it better because you can see that there are no employers' proposals on the benches. Or maybe they don't know that we can change something here, and they're not trying to make any changes in this bill by means of a fellow MP in the House. When we talk about working hours, it is a very interesting fact that it is said that 42 hours is a working week and another employer can give extra work to an 8-hour worker, which is 50 hours a week in total. I was already saying if 5 working days, Monday to Friday has a total of 120 hours per 24 and we spend 8 sleeping, someone sleeps less, like me, but mostly let's take 8 hours to prepare for sleep and awakening, so that's 40 hours, 120 minus 40, stays 80, if 50 works, what's left for that worker and how many hours is left for all other activities and needs? 30 hours. For sports and recreational and cultural and all other activities, not to mention. Food and drink, it's on the side because someone eats fast and then, here. So, what did we get and what did we do with the workers? I remember that there were suggestions to shorten the working week from this government a few months ago, so it would only work from Monday to Thursday so more people could be hired, and such proposals were here. All of a sudden, it's like it wasn't even on the agenda or it wasn't mentioned, and now we have a new proposal. This government really wanders in its proposals, not only on the labour law, but on many other issues and laws that come here on the agenda. It is said that good labour law requires cooperation between labour and capital. I will not quote labour and capital theorists, mostly not those before, so that I would not join someone with certain economic and economic and other policy theorists, but it is difficult to reconcile and say that working and capital co-operation can, therefore, exist or survive in such good relations, in one relationship that would be so harmonious, so complex that Croatian society will move forward. This best tells us how much it really is to get employers increased at a time of crisis, compared to when we said we were without a crisis, or that as the former prime minister, a former prime minister, said, the crisis would only sober us up, as he said. Unfortunately, since then, we've been five, six years, the way the Remetinec ticked him, so we've been five, six years in GDP's downfall. I should go along with these legal proposals myself, but I wanted to add something else to Mrs. Scare Ozbolt's presentation that said that this law is relatively soft compared to some European labour laws. Well, we were softer before the 1990s when we had a form of socialism called self-government compared to the Czech Republic, Bulgaria, Russia, etc. And then we were kind of softer. Well, I guess it's in our blood to be a little different and softer than it was back then. Therefore, the HDSSB has proposed one amendment to all of these, with respect for the amendments to the trade union and those other amendments that the Labourists seem to have partly signed over to me from the union but, therefore, in Article 65, they would have added a new paragraph 5, which reads "that the exceptional paragraphs 3 and 4 of this article do not apply in the event of a direct threat or an elemental accident". In fact, these days we have witnessed that just in the event of a natural disaster you couldn't extend some of the services to work hours, and there was such a situation that, starting with the firefighters, the rest of them were a situation to work from morning till tomorrow. Therefore, the proposer did not take into account the situation of immediate threat or elemental accident in the legislative proposal, in which cases there is an extraordinary need for overtime, e.g. for the water economy and the like. Since cases of direct threat or elemental accident, as well as their duration and frequency over a period of one year, cannot be predicted by law, it is also necessary to regulate the issue of overtime which is necessary as such in order to prevent or address the consequences of a direct threat or an elemental accident. I think that this is a good and appropriate moment and that given the changed climate and all the other situations that have taken place since the day before yesterday from Velika Gorica and Slavonia that we are not talking about floods in Cvelferia that this formulation is good and I think we would ask the legislator to put in Article 65 of this item 5, which would regulate this overtime of workers who would be in charge of the recovery and prevention of damages from elementary disasters. As far as women are concerned, this was about disrespecting the rights of pregnant women, birth, maternity, breastfeeding, etc. The minister defended the law by the more defamation and lies, the more we prefer the law. So he answered all the questions about it, so he gave me his own assurance, convinced me that there was nothing in this bill worse than the old one, even improved that in the case of the liquidation of the company that these women, so before the liquidation itself, would come to some of the funds that would be allocated without being fired. Now who do you trust? If he's lying to a goat, he doesn't lie to a horn, but here's the minister said it in article 34. The contract on the work of the person referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article may be cancelled during the winding-up procedure in accordance with a special regulation for commercially conditioned reasons, which explains his position, so it seems to me that this is more convincing than the attacks on the rest of the foundation in connection with that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83703	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83704	Okay. We'll keep the rest in replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83705	You got it. Thank you, too. The first replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83706	Thank you. You mentioned in the first half of your debate in fact two concepts, one concept of competitiveness, and the second is the notion of an economy with a human face. Unfortunately I think it's very difficult, I'd mention the third term, it's a six-year recession in which the Republic of Croatia is. And now if we want to be competitive and to be in a six-year recession, I think we're going to have a very difficult time developing an economy with a human face that will be able to create competitive products that will be, and as a country we're too small to satisfy with our internal market. So the only market we have today is the EU market and possibly the surrounding countries that we have closed down. Can we under these conditions? I honestly think that we are simple and also in terms of labour legislation, but as part of the package of all measures we simply have to face reality, which is that most of the products that we use today come from economies today with "inhuman faces", so those economies that have much worse working legislation and which then succeed, but much more competitively succeed most of our products for our everyday life sold. And we share only in an even worse form in order to share the fate of Europe in a way that is less and less able to produce for itself. And, of course, there goes the stronger ones again, while these are the worst in that society again, and we are among the worst in that society, they must self-assemble and see what and how they can help themselves. I don't think it makes sense to cultivate illusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83707	Thank you. Answer, here's my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83708	Yes, I understood what you were going to say to Djurovic. In fact, regardless of the ideological omen, therefore every Croatian government must sail between Scylla and Haribda. So it has to sail between what would increase competitiveness and yet the economy with a human character. So that's pretty hard, I understand that. But you've had a long time ago in South America, so-called The theory of liberation carried out by church circles, first of all, taught about the theory of liberation. It's a theory of economics with a human character. What can Croatia do? So here's how to swim, as I say, that I said here that this is what Kai's light compromise law said, or the balanced law between that Scylla and Haribda, and it just takes more effort to invest and create new jobs. And then we'll easily make the laws or change them, add, supplement the Labour Act as we are vessels, if we're good at sailing that sealine between Scylla and Haribda.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83709	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83710	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. Well, let me say something about this Labour Act, too, but this is the final proposal. But I will start with that famous sentence that Minister Mrsic said today: "Employers and workers are dissatisfied and that is a sign that the law is good.". When you say one such sentence or thought, then you're aware that you can pull some analogy. This means that even a dissatisfied people assure the government that she is good and the people say almost 90% does not support this government's policy at all. And then the government realizes for itself that she's as good as this law is good when everyone's unhappy. You understand what I'm saying? So in these analogies and logics, you get lost and all the sense that we're talking about today. Because this job law story has been going on for years, let's say. Indeed, Minister Mrsic will be the first minister to change him with opposition from all. He's got a certain majority, they're going to have a nice vote, and they're all going to be kind of obviously happy. Although I belong to that group of dissatisfaction, both employers and workers are dissatisfied and I, as a member of the people, are 90% with the general direction of this government and the policy they lead. Because it all started out in a way more serious about the 2010 work referendum. Do you remember the questions in that referendum? It said: "Are you in favour of retaining the applicable legal provisions on extended application of the legal rules contained in collective agreements and cancellation of collective agreements?"that was the question. And who drew it first? The prime minister of the current and then the champion of the opposition, Mr Milanovic, was for full application of all the rules. He said yes, I'm for it as the champion of the opposition. I'm for it, and I signed it. At that time, a respectable 800 thousand signatures were collected, and a valid 717, his must have been valid, I believe. And unfortunately, now we realize that it was a signature without obligation in the future. So when I become Prime Minister, what I signed no longer applies, it's over. And of course the time that followed seems to us today like this. Then a statement from the SDP was sent from the centre saying: "We invite all citizens to sign the referendum because it concerns everyone in each family. It's important that you respond.". Today's Labour Act obviously does not concern every family, individual, perhaps it doesn't matter that you respond, in fact no one complains too much about all this because unfortunately we are going through, I say this phase in a way that we already have one on the benches if I manage to count over 60 amendments well. We'll have another debate at the vote. Only the Labourers have given one 30 amendments, almost a whole new law, we'll discuss it again. But here, the minister is convinced that it's the best he could do by modernizing between all the dissatisfactions with the kind of text we've been given for consideration. The prime minister himself obviously agreed because after this kind of behavior, what would we be surprised when he says I'm a diplomat, and we see these days that neither as prime minister obviously liked anyone. I think it's the same obvious. It's precisely this behavior that we've been witnessing for the past 2.5 years because these political tactics are very clear. How did work happen today and this debate happen? Well, that's been going on for 2.5 years. There's a little bit of listening to unions, so one bigger time ignores them, so it's a little pleasing to employers. And even here today we hear that even a colleague from the National Minority Club of the SDSS is calling on the government to become a social-democratic finally, to become social-democratic, to become social-democracy, but apparently they left it a long time ago. And, of course, while these disgruntled, employers and trade unions were fighting, the third took advantage of the opportunity and brought the law here the moment the government brought it almost overnight, no one knew anything. The unions knew nothing until the government gave it to them two hours before the session. And of course they couldn't do it either, that's all. The government doesn't have a minister because he insists on interpreting his policies here, I can even often listen to it because it's endless conversations or speeches that last half an hour like that. Is there too much responsibility after that she also showed this famous line today: "We have opened or hired 180 thousand workers.". Imagine the old law that is bad, which needs to be changed, you hire 180 thousand people in two years and you claim to be changing. And then you cut the number of unemployed from 385 to 300 in two months or three months and the law is bad. So there's something wrong with logic. Either the law is good and it was good, so this is some kind of story to change or it really isn't right, but then we'll have a problem later because at a pace like this, there'll be two years and another 180,000 jobs. Well, we're almost unemployed. But I say, all that belongs to that... the season is here a little bit beginning summer, season, in politics says the season of pickles and timing is important. The law did not want to be passed before the European Parliament elections, all of which became difficult. When it's over we're going to get it quick so let's get whoever wants it and so we'll all be at sea, on vacation, and the workers, they'll have to be happy to have a job and we heard it today. That's a new reach. Everything that's normal in another country is becoming a special condition. We have to thank the government for what we're doing, we have time to work, and that's how they take care of us because we all depend on them anyway. There have already been a lot of words about what it brings to parts of this law. I think workers can hardly understand any terms of this law and what it brings to them, until a certain state occurs to them. They get fired, they get certain shifts, they're on the job, they're often called chicanated, mobbed, especially now in the season. There are now stories about pregnant women, one interprets it in one way, the other in another way, but the fact is that it's the first sentence that everyone is unhappy and that the law is good, I say the most depicts the state in which we live today. In the end, I will end up with the famous sentence of Mr. Prime Minister when he signed and said, "The Labour Act protects labour rights in Croatia that are at risk today should only be changed in exceptional situations, not overnight." So now compare that to a time-out so that we can all figure out together where we're really going with this kind of policy where really those who are really not interested are left to themselves. A large part of the unemployed have been solved by the European Union, we hear for ourselves, 30 thousand people have left this country, it's less on the market. It is likely that another part will go away in the next period, and I say this law has obviously not prevented certain activities between employers and workers so that neither this current one, as it is proposed, will greatly improve them nor bring anything to the labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83711	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Tomislav Klaric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83712	At the beginning of your speech, you mentioned Minister Mrsic's statements. Among other things, he said life writes laws, so laws don't write life. I think it's the opposite here, according to this bill, because right now, we have what was mentioned in the debates before, we have a working worker, we have workers through agencies, so we're going to have some kind of outsourcing or some different model of hiring people that you should practically care about, I guess, some kind of privateer, and it's going to be the service of all of our public institutions. However, what this law and in its very explanation when it comes to job creation and detention, no, this law neither can nor is it intended for it, because this law primarily needs to protect the rights of workers and Croatian citizens. There are other laws that should enable job creation, which are definitely neither being prepared nor having a strategy, and with this kind of adoption as we have brought them, definitely created uncertainty in Croatia for investors who need to invest here in order to open up these jobs, and then by this law people have all the rights that should be granted to them, but there is no such thing as this here and there is talk of those 180 000 jobs that you, as far as I understand you, have proposed to be the export product of our country. So with the Prime Minister's statements today in Gunja, here I am now looking at it, saying that it's fortunate that only Gunja, Raj's village and surrounding places are flooded, with statements from the Greek vice president in the same interview that there will be no taxes, and then there will be taxes, I think we're sending a message that won't open...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83713	Time. Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Boric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83714	My colleague Klaric, the workers on the Leasing are being extended from year to year, so here's one right they got, that's what Minister Mrsic intended me to say again in dissatisfaction with each other, but my God, that's our reality. Because we all come from certain places from the edges of our beautiful and now in one trade chain, say, you can work in Osijek, say, an island and three years and more. Three years and over and that's fine, it goes in favor of the workers. So 500 and 700 km away from home, it's called market flexibility. Now I'm saying, we've already seen a lot of these little secrets from the great masters of this political cuisine, and it's the one I mentioned today when we talk about the number of unemployed, that at the same time the number of employees and the unemployed can fall, and that's why Croatia is specific, and of course the government says we're responsible and of course, who wouldn't believe that. Today, however, people are talking and saying, "Give us work, we're out of work, we're out of work." This is the basic thought with which people in Croatia lie and wake up in the morning. That is why the messages that are sent to the workers are important, and it is also sent to this Labour Act, if you are satisfied, if you are workers with such a law, then in the elections you will, when the time comes, clearly, finely approve, and if you are not, then you will tell the other side of your story.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83715	Next replica Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83716	Thank you. You have presented a very good example of the political inconsistency of collecting political points from former opposition leaders, and today the prime minister and how this comes back, in fact back as a boomerang after several years, means working legislation. However, I think this should be an example from which we should learn, rather than cite it as a model that we should then repeat only in different circumstances. So if we're going to learn and accept that it was really politicizing that they get into their heads, as far as I'm concerned, it would be stupid in the same way that we think and in the same circumstances put ourselves under that or a very similar problem regarding labour legislation. And when you talk about the problem of unemployment or employment, we all know that this index, the number of pensioners and employees is now moving about 1 to 1,12, 1.13 is already when we take all employees in both the public and private sectors... I think the new data is even worse than 1.18. So these indices are unsustainable. We can do verbal acrobatics here and want to be Sweden, Norway, Finland, Germany, Austria, but we're not. The only thing we can really do if we're going to be honest with ourselves, then see what these are even ways of making as many people in this country do. And also one who can't, acts like these today and is completely incapable of opening those jobs, should take responsibility for it and pay the price of it in the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83717	Thank you. Answer, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83718	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Djurovic, I accept your line, and I think for a reason I stated that it was in one time four years ago because it wasn't just this segment that came in today for the payment of SDP, everything else that they did came in. And some of the bill proposals that were then proposed, etc. It's something else today. When we talked about the unemployed, it's a fascinating fact to me that in three months, not full, let's almost four months we've managed to reduce the number of unemployed by 80,000, and we know that all tourism, let's all interpret seasonally, employ 80,000 workers. There's them for good, etc. And we keep warning that this segment is doing something, and the ordinary man and the eye are not visible. And that's why I follow the other part, which is the number of employees. Are we growing the number of employees? It doesn't grow, it's a year smaller by 47 grand, so how come we've opened 180 thousand jobs? Well, that has nothing to do with logic. And that's why it's better not to say anything, rather than to make some claims behind which absolutely nothing stands when those figures are denied and they say something else entirely. And we're all very hoping that we're going to grow that GDP, and we're going to finally get out or we can say that we're getting out of that recession, but the situation isn't that, and today is the basic thought, what I've already said, every worker and every man, we want a job, give us a job, we want to work, and they don't worry too much about this Labour Act because I'm saying, it doesn't make sense that you're in so much, that you've opened up so many jobs, but the law is bad. So he doesn't regulate anything, so let's be less revolutionary, and let's respect those who really want to work, and let's not talk about what doesn't stand because he's coming back to collect...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83719	Thank you. The Minister called in his word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83720	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So let me just explain the statistics so we can see what numbers we have. So, the labour market is a dynamic market where you get fired and received, and if you look at statistics then you see that in a certain period of time a part of people lost their jobs, a part of people got a job, and that's the 180 thousand people who got a job, and at the same time they lost them because it's seasonal employment. What we will talk about and have finally good data is a matter of records from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute which keeps records of persons employed and for the first time in view of the unique form, so on the JPPD form we will finally have exact and records of how busy they are, at which working time, where, in which activities and wait and data to then talk about where people are missing. No one's gone anywhere, it's just a matter of simple labour market dynamics. Therefore, at this point in time, looking at the labour market, it is employed, it opens up part of the job, but in order to have a trend and to confirm that trend, it needs to wait a whole year and then compare it to that year before, so from 2008 to today, and then see which way the labour market is going. Let's not bid on half the results.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83721	Thank you, Minister. We have two replicas. Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83722	Thank you very much, Minister, for feeling the need to replicate to me, i.e. to tell me what's true, but you didn't tell me. So you've only said one part of your own truth. We've opened 180 thousand jobs, as the number of employees is smaller by 47, then you have to say the rest. We've lost 230 or 227 thousand jobs with the policy you're leading. That's what you have to say and that's what we're guilty and responsible for, as a government government or we have a chance to boast, but then let's try and try a little bit, and not we've opened up something that's missing the 50,000 that's been employed anymore and that's not what we're interested in. I don't think I'm dealing with any bad or half information because this is all available and it's out there. Well, I'm not making up these numbers. Take a look at the comparisons in 2008 and 2011, so you'll just see what's going on in the number of employees. And unemployment, we can interpret it seasonally anyway. Here comes the generation who graduated, now the results of the graduation are published. Probably don't want everyone to go to college. You'll see that they first apply to the office. He's gone. In Germany? In Austria? Probably not, not given by God. But then you tell us what the real information is about why it's hiding. I have reason to doubt these 80,000 because I don't believe that the state can generate 700 new jobs a day for 120 days, let's say in a row. Then I'll be scared in 12 months we'll be under 200 grand so unemployed, and that's not true. You'll see the number in 12 months.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83723	Thank you. The reply to the replica, please be my guest Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83724	Well, Your Honor, we will provide you with this in writing from year to year, from day to day how many jobs have been opened, how many jobs have been completed, how much you employed in the tourist season by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. At this point, over 50,000 citizens are engaged seasonally in business. We'll also provide you with all the statistics so that I hope you'll be able to handle the numbers you understand. On the other hand, we will also provide you with statistics from the National Statistics Institute, in line with EUROSTAT on the number of employees, on places where these people are employed, and then we will be able to discuss it. No one hides any figures unlike you when you were in power, when at the end of the month there was a general panic to publish the number of unemployed and then sent people to education in 15000 people in 2011 was sent to education to hide the number of unemployed before the elections. We don't do it, we don't do it. That number is public, you can see it every day, and therefore that number is visible. In your time, that number was hidden, and we can then discuss who has the information that's public and who's been hiding the data and who's been hairing the data.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83725	Next replica Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83726	Well, Mr. Minister, you said don't bid on any half results. Wait for the statistics to work. Well, you just went out with the data, and we didn't make it up, and we didn't bid with them. You mentioned 2011 now. At the time, I am actively working on opening new jobs, building new business facilities and God forbid the situation is now like 2011. And as for statistics and the presentation of statistical modality, I heard a beautiful statistic here from the Vice-President of the Government who says that, for example, the pools in the Gorski Kotar or the Klan municipalities are statistically more developed than some Bakra, Crikvenica or this because they share the money they have in the budget on the number of residents that unfortunately waste. And that's statistics, and that's where we repeat that story about abolishing mountain-mounted status. It's all about each other. Both this law and all those laws that have been passed before and all those in an urgent procedure that we change and the uncertainty of investors to invest here in Croatia and therefore do not come to us and therefore do not create jobs. And as for 2011 and the situation in 2011, I think it would be good if we were in the situation as it was in 2011.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83727	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83728	So I made it clear, and I made it clear that I wasn't talking about opening jobs, I was talking about hiring through the Employment Office. This trend continues this year in the first six months. It's more of a job than it was last year. If that trend should wait and I wouldn't bid and I didn't bid on it. You haven't heard from me anywhere that means the labour market is recovering. I said that things are getting better, that they're better, and let's see that when things get longer, when we have a longer track, then we'll have better results. As for 2015, yes, the number of unemployed was cut. 15000 of them were in education which then returned from that education to the Employment Service in 2012 in the next three months because at that time the law was in force which he said when you sent someone to education and he was unemployed, sent him to a job education that did not benefit him and neither the state nor anyone else at that time automatically deleted from the Employment Office. In 2012, we passed changes to that law where we said this person is still unemployed regardless of what is in education and we are still taking her to the list of unemployed, so we are not erasing. 2011 was a huge pressure on the Employment Service to send as many of our citizens who were unemployed into any form of education as long as they were not on the list of unemployed at the time of the elections. They all returned to the Employment Service in 2012. Whose result is ours or yours?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83729	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Mile Horvat. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Boris Blazekovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83730	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. The law itself was talked about more on behalf of the club by colleagues Gjurkovic and counterpart Baranovic, and I would approach the whole topic in a slightly different way. Work is a phenomenon of a huge number of variants and aspects that allow us to offer any simpler answer to the question of what work is. It's a sentence from the introduction of probably the most popular contemporary part that treats work called "The Philosophy of Work" by Norwegian philosopher Lars Svendsen. Svendsen in nine chapters of his book speaks of various aspects of work, its meaning and meaning for human life, describing what work he once was, what he was like today, and what he might turn into in the future. In the third chapter, the work and meaning discusses the importance of finding meaning in the work that we are doing. According to Greek myth, the gods condemned Sisif to push an eternal stone to the top of the hill, believing there was no more terrible punishment than hopeless and pointless work. Indeed, man should see some sense in what he does. According to Emanuel Kant, man is the only animal that has an existential need for work because it gives him life content. Starting with Max and Smith, who predicted the consequences of division of work, performing more and more simple operations leads to the fact that work actually becomes meaningless. Although our work today is far more fulfilling because it gives us the opportunity to develop its talents often the existence of so - called. ... jobs provide very little opportunity to develop talent and find a sense of work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we want to experience our work as something truly meaningful, we must find some inner meaning in the work itself. The modern way of life suggests that working in principle is only one part of human activities and relationships that make up the whole of life content. In addition to working in the lives of each individual, family relationships are increasingly important, family experiences. Through experience and relationship, closer to the environment, to the community, to the state. More and more important are education, entertainment, personal consumption of culture, participation in culture, customs, gastronomy, tourism, sport etc., etc. Today, we do less than ever and we have more than ever. But that doesn't mean that it's good and that we don't need to work so that we don't get better. Today’s modern - day life in the countries of the so - called Western democracy is completely different than it was 100 or 200 years ago. Modern life provides incredible opportunities for every single person. We have been protected since birth and are provided with laws practically all human rights. We are provided with every education and education and more or less identical starting positions in society. And social security is almost fully secured, practically for the rest of our education, and pension systems for the rest of our lives. The possibility of work, employment in a united Europe is almost random. But we are aware that the differences are huge both in certain countries and in the EU member states. The countries are therefore expected to ensure that their regulatory and control mechanisms are as equal as possible and especially the safety of a high standard of living as possible to their citizens. Social and economic security is an important aspect of human security. In this respect, the right to work and the rights of workers play a decisive role in the achievement of human security. People who do not have the opportunity to work are dependent on social assistance or have no prospects. The right to work as a standard of human rights goes far beyond mere survival because meeting the basic needs is not enough to increase human security. Workers' rights ensure decent working conditions and also protect against discrimination and exploitation at the workplace. Work must not only ensure survival and prosperity but it is because it is related to the relationship and participation of man in society. Furthermore, work is closely related to self-determination, self-respect, self-fulfilment, and thus to human dignity. Dangerous, unhealthy or unfair working conditions, unemployment and banning labour unions, except that they lead to personal uncertainty also cause unrest and thus create uncertainty and instability in society. For these reasons, promoting standards of decent work without exploitation is a prerequisite for increasing human safety. New technologies and global data exchange have the potential to lead to the transformation of the world of work even more than an industrial revolution. The liberalisation of the world market and the cyber revolution mean that opportunities in the global economy are growing. In this growth, opportunities for work, employment have been unsuspected, but relations have become very complex so that restrictions are also high. Overall, taking into account the economy, content and technology of industrial information, accessibility at all levels, and interests have increased and increased dramatically and disproportionately compared to the growth of human consciousness and self-awareness compared to the growth of human objective and subjective opportunities for transformation into modernity. For this reason, the government and society in all modern European countries must find ways to change most social paradigms as quickly as possible, as well as to work. Working as a part of an individual's life must give that individual a sense of dignity and self-preservation through the realization of ambition and awareness of talent. I'm going to skip the part of employers and trade unions here because there's really enough to talk about today. I am one of those who think that only private entrepreneurship is really productive and socially beneficial entrepreneurship. The state has proven itself to be a bad master. The state is a policy and as soon as the policy deals with entrepreneurship, the decision is in its own nature political and is not entrepreneurial, is not profitable and is not profitable. In the current particularly popular form of entrepreneurship, social entrepreneurship is a necessary profit. Although in this form of entrepreneurship profit itself is not the ultimate goal. In social entrepreneurship, the aim is to employ, work and the purpose of work, a relaxed attitude towards work, a relaxed management of work processes. I am convinced that self-employment and private entrepreneurship are the best quality relationship against themselves, work and also against the community. The person who hired herself or has his own company or crafts is the freest person. Self-restraint work, when a man holds himself back, when he decides on processes within work and the positive results of that same work are an unsurpassed sense of self-awareness, security within himself. Such a form of self - determination provides a sense of self - respect and freedom. Such feelings encourage further creativity, develop positive feelings, empathy, and care for the wider community. Many forms of self-employment and every possible form, the state must help and encourage. And to conclude, relationships in the field of work and employment are directly related to individual freedom and happiness. The State has an obligation to protect the work of workers as well as the obligation to improve the normal increase in productivity and the development of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship. And the Labour Act is one of the most important or even key instruments for harmonising these processes. And I, like my colleagues, will uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83731	Thank you, too, dear colleague. We have three replicas. The first replica of respected MPs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83732	You tell your colleague, you're actually talking about those important work definitions and the need for a man to work, not only to meet his economic needs, those everyday life needs, but what's important today and what hasn't been heard during the debates, and what's always needed when it comes to this topic of the Labour Act, how work is important and how in fact a man's work becomes more and more human, and how much work is needed for a man and from that aspect. What I would like to point out in particular is how much, as the question has been raised here, how much today can be a socialist in these conditions of a neoliberal Europe that talks and sees some of its delusions and how much it is necessary to correct it, at that level, and then it will be made easier on us and at national level. It is an irrefutable fact that this is exactly the way of management, the neoliberal path he in itself creates a surplus workforce and wherever the extra workforce is created then it seems to me that there is no such law that can provide good protection for workers and how much workers are forced to remain silent and not seek their rights. And never rights, no matter how much the law guarantees them, and how many mechanisms legally guarantee them the exercise of that right, the rights of the weaker ones should always be fought.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83733	Replication response, respected representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83734	Thank you very much. Thank you, colleagues, for supporting my discussion. And as for forms of work, work, labour rights, labour opportunities are now known to be unfavourable employment opportunities, i.e. self-employment. And that's what I'd like to point out at this point that the state has to show a lot more sensitivity to encourage self-employment, to encourage people in various forms, we've talked and recently there was the Law on Co-operation, on Social Entrepreneurship. There are extremely numerous forms and opportunities of self-employment, and of the fact that, as you know, we have reduced the price of opening businesses and that there are a number of financial resources within the country that make such employment possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83735	Dear Representative Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83736	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Blazekovic, you're right. There is only one problem that you and your party are taking part in the ruling coalition and that the completely wrong economic and tax system over the past 2 years has produced an exponential growth of public debt, an unprecedented cost of interest being collected and the growth of deficits, a credit rating in garbage, a state objectively on the edge, I did not say over the edge, but on the edge of bankruptcy, investors bypass us, Croatian entrepreneurs leaving Croatia, the world's most respected, and the world's most respected economic paper Financial Times declares us the most non-functional European economy. Indeed, by many parameters, we have already exceeded Greece in a negative sense. So, I could count for a long time now. You're right, but this way with this completely missed economic and tax policy, and every other policy simply doesn't have a chance to go in any new direction. And finally, even the debate over the past few weeks has actually been saying that after 2.5 years, the current government in the house where the roof burned down, the upstairs walls, burned down almost to the ground, wiped out the dust.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83737	Replication response, respected representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83738	Thank you very much. Thank you, fellow Milosevic, for telling me I'm right. And as for all this other stuff you said, you don't really think this government is responsible for this situation? That over the past 20 years, it's been doing a hell of a lot of amazing work? So if you'd left us a thing at 0, you shouldn't have left things at -1, but at 0. Believe me, today the situation would certainly be different, I believe you'll agree with me, that it was put on 0 so that the thing would be completely different today than it is. And the organisation of the country, otherwise the definition of the state is terribly simple, the state serves only to make life easier, more beautiful, and happier for its citizens. But to arrange a state, to run a state, it's an extremely complex, complex process that requires a tremendous amount of knowledge, a terrible lot of positive energy, a terrible lot of diligence. This government has certain industriousness and positive energy. And what's left for her, what's got to be dealt with, all the honor of looking like this today at all. And by mentioning it here and asking you to remember this sentence, we're going to add up the whole story after a four-year term.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83739	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83740	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, I'll tell you just one thing, so the government, the former government that we're talking about, the HDZ has left you with an economic growth above 0, reduced tax discharges, that is, one year before the term of office, so the crisis tax no longer existed. But here's something, I know you're defending your coalition government, you should know besides what a man once says I will, but you should know, you should know, you should have a vision. You were talking about human dignity and having the right, one responsible government, one government that knows what it wants, one government that was preparing for power, one government that's ready for everything in this situation that we're talking about right now needs to know what its most sensitive groups are within society, which they mean for this society. These are young colleagues, these are groups at this time of work up to 40 years. 40 years later, if you lose your job, God forbid, you'll never find him again. And I'm sure after 40 years there are a lot of people who are not only working, intellectually and in every other way capable, and then especially if you're a woman, let's say the young woman who can't get a job, if you're single is not good, if you're married you'll certainly stay pregnant, if you stay pregnant again is not good. So you know when you talk about it all, it's been a lot of age groups over the last three years that have felt like they're not living with dignity.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83741	Replication response, respected representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83742	I agree, Mrs. twilight, with you, that there are a number of sensitive groups in this particular society. And that is the concern and obligation of all of us to take care of them. In my deep conviction, what the government and state in the way they should be worried about is the first social protection through the social area, but to make it possible to create new jobs. It is not the government, it is not the state that needs to be employed but should enable entrepreneurs to create new jobs and make it easier for them to expand their businesses to be as competitive on the market as possible. And what I've already said when I was responding to Mrs. Anticevic, which is that you need to strongly encourage self-employment in all forms and group self-employment, if you want to self-employed groups of people for reasons, because other than that it enables people to attract, we create a wider layer of self-aware people who are then who make up this conditional middle class and bear both positive and change, but also a positive atmosphere to society as a whole. And I think that these vulnerable groups should also be allowed such a way of hiring and solving their problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83743	Thank you too, dear colleague. We're continuing an individual debate with the MPs. It is up to the honourable representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83744	Thank you very much, Mr. President. By listening to today's debate, one gets the impression that no one is more privileged in Croatia than the workers, he is in an extraordinary position, he is more protected and we are now still passing a law that will further protect him. And I studied real and first and second reading, and I read it. Is there any item that protects workers from existing conditions? There isn't. Is there any item that is more favourable in the second reading for a worker than in the first reading? There isn't. And it's always said that we bring it all to God because of workers and employers and employers who are unhappy. It is said to forget the formula 3 times 8, as if this formula was made out of sleeves, as if it had never been on scientific knowledge founded that a man is scheduled to work for 8 hours, to sleep for 8 hours and 8 hours of other social creative activities and activities performed and to perfect himself. He says let's forget it. Why? What is forbidden to be human? I know that economic values undermine moral values, but the Law of Labour should not bury man and man's dignity. What's the working week in France? We won't hear from the motionary. What's the working week in Germany? We won't hear from the motionary. Much smaller than in Croatia. But in Croatia we go to extremes or the worker does not have the right to work or one who has the right to work then we will exploit it to the limit. We'll try to see what its limits are. There are no beings who have no need, but the true need is the one where the being feels what it is. For a fish it's swimming, water, for a bird it's a flight, for an intelligence it's thinking, and for a man it's a work. But a man can't just turn what out of need into a need and we turn it into a slave with this law, not a man. So I wonder, when a man can be a man, when he will be a parent, when he will be a brother, when he will be a sister, when he will be an aunt, an uncle, an uncle, a friend, a father, when he will read, when he will think, when he will eat, when he will drink, when he will rest? Only if it doesn't work, that's the legal solution I don't think is good. There is always an insinuating the thesis that in Croatia man is overpaid and that work is terribly expensive. So what countries do we compare ourselves with if the average salary is 5.5 thousand kuna net, and 10 years ago, there were 5 thousand 200 inflations 35%, all raised 150%. What countries are we comparing ourselves to? I might say again with my neighbors, France, England, Austria, Slovenia. No, I don't. The work there is much more valuable. Is it expensive work or not? The best evidence is to contribute to the worker. In Denmark 48.1%, in France 45%, in Italy 55%, in Germany 39.1% and average... Union 39.4%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in Croatia 35.7%. So 20% less than in Italy, 10% less than in France, 13% less than in Denmark. And the issue is that we're uncompetitive because we're more expensive than those same countries. But they'll never tell us where we're really most expensive. In what is transferred to final consumption, to all people and to the unemployed and to the workers, VAT is 25%. Only one country in the European Union has more than Croatia and only one has as much Croatia. And what is it then in those lands where we are called? Here, listen. Germany 19%, Austria 20%, Italy 22%, Slovenia 22%, if we're going east a little, Bulgaria 20, Latvia 21, if we're going a little south, Spain 21, Malta 18 and Croatia 25%. That's the problem. High VAT rate, 25%. It inhibits economic activity, and it prevents job creation. Of course, the conditions are completely on the market. Imagine us and get ahead of ourselves in the European Union. No country in the European Union, over the years of the crisis, has achieved more net profits than Croatia compared to gross social product in 2012. 12% of gross social product is paid net profit after tax in the Republic of Croatia. None of the countries in the European Union had, in 2012, 36 billion kuna net profits. But only then does it indicate how unfair the distribution was, how much only individuals who turned Croatia into their property took. How much they have contributed to the fact that, instead of a society in which it will be important and develop and dominant homosapians prevail, the homoecnomicus dominates, only the man of calculation in the Croatian government. But where is it done as early as in Croatia, where it is not paid as much as in Croatia, where so much overtime is not paid as in Croatia? Nowhere. And by this law, we say, you will do even more overtime, you will die in the workplace, and yet you are waiting and you will not be able to retire, they will extend to you until 67 years, you will not be able to enjoy one day, let alone years. And then what's threatening us? He threatens us, we enter with laws like this, we enter into the process of man's dehumanization, it's a socially dangerous process. A society where a man doesn't feel like a man, it's the worst form of social order. A tiger cannot be detigrated but a man can be dehumanized and dehumanized in action. A tiger can't be not a tiger but a man can be not a man. So many employers prove to be inhuman. But fortunately, there are employers of those who show a human face and who are most endangered not because of the Labour Act but because of other employers, because of the great, dominant ones. Those who by power and function try and not only try but also rule. And here I recognize the handwriting of those in a law like this. What was the success of a union or worker to change an article of an existing law or from first reading to its own benefit? Not one. I've read 10 times each, not one. So everything we've changed is more unfavourable for a man. I can't raise my hand against a man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83745	Honourable representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83746	My colleague, as you started your debate in the face of this Act to turn a worker into a slave and for not speaking at the beginning and in fact you were late, such a debate was founded but you were late with it for over 20 years, in the '90s and too bad that you were not in the Assembly when the Labour Act was discussed because such a debate was more appropriate to such a legal proposal which unfortunately became, was also the law. However, you were also an influential and respected member of your party, so you could react in such a way that it would not happen. But let's let those kind of ones go now, they're more of these political assessments, qualifications or disqualifications that I don't think the workers are going to open up. However, the debate here must go in that direction to ask if, the unemployed who stands at home, would he work for a certain time, if he could show what he knows, would have shown himself to the employer. And you yourself said that employers have good employers who long for good workers who only need to be given a chance. Ask yourself if such a worker who stands at home or who threatens to go home because of his employer, if he does business with another employer, would he be happy to go home or be laid down, therefore, and work with another employer. So what's more important? That the worker works and gets paid. And you're also that good institute that exists all over the world here this morning playing and making fun, which I don't think is correct. But I agree here with you, with your thesis that it's best to ensure a worker's safety from the beginning, ever since he got a job and for the rest of his life, but that's impossible today. And when we were still at odds, when there was still a chance to keep it going, then you called us commies. Are we now, are you commies too?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83747	Replica response, respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83748	My colleague Antičević, I always remember what I'm saying, I've never called anyone a commie in any situation, even though I know who that is. ... Yes, but I'm not dividing it into groups, I'm dividing it into just that group. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you for calling me that in one part I spoke well, but ever since I was in Parliament, I've been talking about the economy the same way, and while we were ruling and when we're in opposition, and that's what you can testify. You were sitting there in your last session, but I couldn't compete with something I wasn't when I wasn't. That's what I think calling it for some time ago isn't justifiable to me. When you say whether the worker will work, of course he will, and he will, but is it better if one worker works as early as possible and makes it impossible for another worker who is unemployed to work. With this law, we will convert half the total working time into overtime and thus make it impossible for 50,000 new jobs to be used for overtime, of which I claim more than half of them will not be paid. Who will dare and guarantee that if the employer calls the employer not to pay him overtime, that the worker will be protected and that he will not get fired and that he will get a new job. He'll end up on the road and no one will want to see him again because he ratted out the employer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83749	Thank you very much. ... We've got plenty of replicas, you'll hear everything. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Honorable representative Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83750	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleague, you're in your rather depressing debate I'm going to say that workers' salaries today are about 5500 kuna, so they're just a little bit bigger than they were 10 years ago and inflation was about 30 percent. You wanted to actually say that wages actually fall, unlike salaries in some European countries, such as, for example, you listed it, Germany, where wages are several times higher and constantly growing. We understood your message and about what you said was true, but you did not say what the economic downturn in Croatia was just in the last six years, so from the pre-crisis in 2008 to today over 12%. In industry as the most important economic activity that employs and produces the most goods for export, the decline is over 20%. In construction, also important economic activity, over 40%. At the same time, Germany had continued economic growth, which is the basis for growth and wage increases. You have to agree with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83751	Replica response, respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83752	My colleague Jelash, I'm a pretty optimistic person and a man, but the data is depressed and depressed than I've ever told them before, and I've been commenting on it. They're even more depressed. As an economist, I can't be worried if with a million and 550,000 employees we burned at a million 350 thousand and we have as many pensioners. This layman knows that such a condition is unsustainable and that such a system cannot survive and it is not my depression, it is the depressing situation we have come to. And I'm not talking about the causes. I'm talking about the way out of it. Why did I get that data from the profit? Because he doesn't recognize economic policy as the essence of the problem, he doesn't see where the problem is. The blind are blind to problems or willfully close their eyes where the obvious problems are. The problem of distribution in the Croatian economy is obvious, the problem of monopoly and cartel organisations is obvious. That's an obvious problem. The institutions that oversee it don't react. The obvious problem is, and the minister knows that through the Student Service he works for thousands of employees in telecommunications companies, and they have no right to do so and they do so every day. And you can't fix your phone when it breaks down because no one's answering you, and you pay for it the most expensive. In Croatia, food is paid the most expensive in the European Union, with a standard that falls on us. And it's not my depression, it's a finding the state has to react to. And on food the most enriched in Croatian society, on what no man can, on drink and food, on the water that Croatia gives, which is the water of all of us. That's what other companies buy and get shamelessly rich at. And the twists you see, 40,000 less, in agriculture 30,000 less, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83753	Thank you very much. There's more replicas, don't worry. The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83754	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, no matter what they say in a way that you've been saying depressingly, no, you've really said the situation that it is. And recently when we talked and you said yourself, one of these proposed laws within the 2.5 years of this government didn't help open any manufacturing plant, and we know very well that no economy, any country that tried to get out of the crisis or exits will come out without production. There are still workers today who don't get paid, and that's not one or ten. It's a few thousand workers or tens of thousands. You were saying, let's say here's a little example I'll tell you. It's closed and destroyed the Immunological Institute. The serum against the sting of a black widow when it was produced by an immunological device cost on the market EUR 25. Today, now because of this situation because it was not wanted and not wanted or had any other intentions he was importing and costing 500 EUR. It's very difficult at all to say in a way that this law will help and bring back, and it's good and it's dignity human, that it can work, that it can earn and live honestly from its work and that it's not afraid, that it's simply not afraid. Fear is something that really is the brake of everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83755	Replica response, respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83756	Thank you very much. My colleagues here are just taking out some official information for a occasion like this so you can judge whether they're depressed or not. 2008 was the average net salary of 5200 kuna, today it is 5500 kuna. GDP was 343 billion, today 326 billion, 15 billion less. The debt of the state was 102 billion, today 220 billion kuna. 120 billion kunas more than it was in 2008, of which only in two years 50 billion kuna. Who can't seriously imagine it, but be stoned? I told you about the number of employees. The unemployed were at the end of last year 345000 on average, and in 2008. Two hundred and thirty-six thousand. So, almost 100,000 more unemployed. The craft employs 264000 today 206,000, 60,000 in the craft less. In agriculture there were 38,000 today, 25,000, half, we're in half. But at the same time, no one cares about anything else. The balance of payments of the Republic of Croatia is cited under the item of net losses and errors amounting to a billion euros. To plasticize, that means the balance of payments says we don't know what a billion euros was paid in one year. It literally means layman. And in the last 15 years, 12 billion euros have been paid abroad not to know what is paid, 12 billion euros. That's what the balance sheet says. And the IMF warns of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83757	Thank you very much. Next fellow MP Drazen Djurovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83758	Thank you. You've opened a lot of issues. I'll go back to the one you brought out in your debate. It's dehumanization. You mentioned it, the problem of dehumanisation and linked it to work, the problem of this labour legislation whether these changes or generally working legislation. I agree with you that today we live more dehumanized than 20 years ago. Now what's the impact of actually direct labour legislation on dehumanisation between us, whether because of the working legislation, our kids don't play football on meadows anymore, our parents don't hang out, neighbors don't hang out in front of houses, we don't hang out with each other, we don't date. So we don't have a whole series of interactions that we had 20 or 40 years ago. I honestly don't know if working legislation is the cause. But what's clear and what's really causing dehumanization, which is inhumane if that's what we're going to do is, as far as I'm concerned, it's not a problem how many hours I'm going to work. But those hours were paid to work under normal conditions, not to happen as we are looking at now an amazing scene with, for example, constructor workers that they were working and that they didn't receive whether 6 or 10 months' wages and that's still happening, even though the laws that should have been sanctioned so that these things don't happen anymore. Even they are very flexible, they come from all over Croatia, they come to these sites, they spend weeks, they work as long as it takes. But at this point, there are no more eclectic examples of actually inhumane behavior that is that you do not pay workers whether half a year or 10 months. And that the state doesn't have the tools to simply put an end to it, to sanction such phenomena.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83759	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83760	Thank you very much. Well, I agree with you colleagues that there is no problem with labour law, but this working legislation deepens the dehumanisation process. And how does it not affect a man not to pay his salary? Since it does not affect man’s salary of 3000 kuna and work overtime for both salary and overtime of 3000 kuna. She works Saturdays by midnight. Does that not affect the dehumanization of man? Does this not affect the environment of both his family and his friends and society in general? When it comes to unemployment, unemployment is the most important category in the economic category when it comes to the economy. What unemployment is for the economy, it's the same as the human temperature, as the temperature shows that something with the human body is not good, that there's some kind of problem thus showing the unemployed state of society. And unemployment can't and it has to be solved. But in professional literature, when such a problem arises, the sharing of working hours increases employment rather than overtime. Overtime work prevents an increase in employment, i.e. increasing unemployment. It's the other way around. If we had a job problem, if we had fewer unemployed then to go into these overtime hours, that would be justified, than we have a problem that's too many people without a job and then force overtime, not hiring new people I see a trap and actually one room for manipulation. And that's what I'm always afraid of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83761	Dear Representative Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83762	You raised a real question about this law and the whole functioning of the state. We here in this honorable home should be exactly how you started with that language of those who don't work, those who don't receive wages, all of our citizens and not just about this expression of depression. How depressed a man can be, and we meet them every day in our halls in cities and municipalities, which have 2000, 2500 kunas with three children, when they receive those bonuses and social assistance. You mentioned a whole series of countries and their VAT. Is there anywhere in these countries that an entrepreneur will pay that 25% or 21% or 22% or 19% of what you mentioned before he charged for his work? And how much when he pays for it, he can pay someone's salary if he doesn't charge what he's supposed to pay for, which he's invested in, which is the case with us. Is it even possible to talk about new jobs in a state where there are no investments, where everything is dead? Can we even say that this law can run any kind of employment? Well, this law should primarily deal with workers' rights. And there's not saying what someone mentioned about social... Or I don't know what kind of people we're talking about, our citizens that we're here for. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're talking about their rights. How does my daughter or someone's kid who works through the agency feel, so now she's three years old and doesn't know what day she's gonna lose her job? And what can he plan in the future, and we have 10,000 less-born people than he died? That's a little bit of a talk, and this is the law. And the mass of the other laws that we are discussing here, I repeat again that we are taking urgent action and changing them at all times by voting politically, not by thinking about the problem of that worker, of our resident who has nothing to live on. What are his direct, what are the costs of his children's education and how will he have these children with a salary of 2000, 2500, 3000 kuna?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83763	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83764	Thank you very much. Well, if you don't know the problem, you can't solve it, but if you know the problem and don't use the right tool and methodology, then you won't solve it either. You may know the exact name of the disease, but if you don't know how to treat it, it doesn't mean anything to you. The task of the state is when it adopts laws that the law must express a general desire, it must promote the benefit of all and must be in the interests of the nation as a whole. Therefore, when the law is passed, the state creates a balance in society, and it must not lead to distribution in society. The balance in society between good and freedom. And the task of the economy, the overall task of the economy is the rational use of natural goods and human potentials, the reasonable use of non-exhaustion, must not be exhausted either naturally good nor human. And I see in this law an unreasonable use of man, exaggerated, using excessive force actually. That's what this is about, and you don't recognize real problems, and then there are real reactions to how to get out of the real problem. The labour law won't improve anything, we'll just put the worker in a more unfavourable situation. The employers won't be any better, so they've said it like this. But look at one case, labour inspectors, hire a man's employer for a certain time and don't fill in the section the reasons why he hired him, he paid 3,000 kuna, and he paid taxes and contributions and everything and he reported a worker 3,000 kuna fines. And when he doesn't report it, when he's black, he doesn't pay anything. The inspectors come and says we can't, they're working on black, it's got to be someone else's, it's gonna be customs or somebody else's gonna handle it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83765	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Ante Jerolimov, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83766	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Marić, you spoke well of the proposal of this law and not only of the law but of the whole situation in our society and not of the depression but of the way it is and what is appropriate for the moment we are in. You were also talking about the objectives of the law, we heard this this morning when the minister said that every law in writing has some goals, so if these goals are not met and if they are not incorporated and harmonised in this law, then the question is, why are we bringing it and who are we even bringing it for? Because as we heard the employers say they didn't get anything, the union says the workers didn't get anything, though they lost, and the minister says the law is balanced. Well, then I don't know what he's balanced into when all sides are unhappy. And this resolute ministry and this government lost two years, 2.5 years writing this bill in vain, and not that it balanced this law, but I would say that it embellished both employers and unions, at the end of it and myself and all the workers and the entire public, and they would say nothing. Also, in your discussion, since you touched the social situation a little wider, you also mentioned the needs of man. Well, I think there's a key to the problem and it seems to me that the philosophy of this government is alive to work, and it doesn't work to live. And that's the difference between us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83767	Replica response, respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83768	Well, fellow Jerolimov, it's obvious, and the promoter said this morning that we agreed on this bill, that in the government, the government agreed between themselves. The most important problem for employers is that some basic problems can't be solved, how to fire someone who stole something from the company? They won't even be able to fire him under this law. How do you really fire a drone? But they will be able to fire, in equal treatment are both an honest worker and an dishonest worker, even one who tends to take something from the firm and one who tends to bring it to the firm. They are in equal treatment and nothing helps employers. But I'm against the solution to the present times in a way that they're the problems of the next time. And we keep it, we fall into that trap, we bring solutions that become problems for the next few months without saying years and huge problems. At the same time, we ignore real problems, and what can we do? Why I took advantage of the situation, so I put some of the problems in, because it closes my eyes, which is essentially the problem. As possible, 304 billion kunas are paid net from 2000 to today after tax in such a bad economy. As possible, but it was only paid off by some, it was the chosen cartel suffered. And tax policy, economic policy didn't generally recognise it, she left out equal treatment for them and for those who are squirming in trouble and who can't settle, they have to be in debt to pay them, to pay the state for not paying them. And then there goes a pretense settlement that forgives exactly once again and large, and to the harm of these little ones who are threatened all the time anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83769	Thank you too, fellow Maric. Boro Grubisic, a respected representative and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83770	Thank you very much. Mr. Maric, I am always thrilled, since I am not an economist, by your knowledge of the process in economics and macroeconomics and the assessment of the state and society situation, so is this Labour Act. In fact, in one religion, the work of God says, so the Law of Labour or the Law of Exploitation would actually be something similar. When you spoke in a replica about a telecom, I apologize about a telecommunications house, how you employ through a cold service and that leader of that house here gives us advice and recipes on how to get out of the crisis economically. I have to say that I spent my entire cell phone battery waiting 45 minutes on one call to get word from one of the operators in that telecommunications house, 45 minutes on a free number. Furthermore, when you talk about an average salary of 5.5 thousand, you as an economist well know what the median is and if we found a median of these salaries then we would see that 80 or 90% of the people who receive the salary are below that 5.5, that's the average salary. But there are a lot of people who receive the salary of the manager or others, pay from 20 to 200 thousand kuna, and that increases the average, the amount of the average salary. And if we looked at how many hundreds of thousands of people receive 2.5, 3,000 kuna we'd see that's the majority of those who receive as an average salary of 5.5 thousand. I wish we had, all the employees, or all the employees, have five thousand, where luck. But unfortunately, it's not like that. You've detected the problem well. This government or does not know the diagnosis, and you have also used medical, medical terminology or if it knows the diagnosis does not know the treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83771	Thank you, too. Reply to the replica, respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83772	My colleague Grubisic, no one happier than me to have a state but we are struggling, we are struggling terribly with the state. Imagine Christmas, during lunch at 2 o'clock, 3 at Christmas from a visible place from the garage where people pass dare to steal all 4 wheels from my car, my car. If no one from the police had called me today and said listen here's something we tried, but it didn't work out, no one contacted. It's just an example of how the state works. But either way, you say you called the telecommunications houses, so I've got a college month and a half is broken, the line's dead, and no one can just go with the secretary, there's a guy who came in, he doesn't know anything, I can't be mad at him, the master is no longer here to fix it, he doesn't exist. It's all outsorcing, we've been able to, but it doesn't work anymore, but you have to pay for the fax. So he gives you a trial for three months, as he offers you a free trial, you say go ahead, and then he says you didn't cancel and they still invoice you. So I'm gonna cancel something I didn't even order. But you're gonna pay fat. It's a mess every time you talk about wages, so of course most of the salaries are below the average salary and life pretends to strain and pay the directories, because we pay them the most expensive, not only food, but also the most expensive directors in Europe. And then they say we're still going to introduce real estate taxes like we're not paying taxes. The communal fee is more expensive than anywhere in the world, real estate tax, so it can't really stand it anymore. The budget is growing, budget revenues are growing, budget expenditures are going down, and we're just burdening ourselves, so we're transferring VAT because it's to the end-user, it's not about economic activity, it's only the last person who pays everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83773	Dear Representative, colleague Zlatko Tušak. There you go. There you go. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83774	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Yes, the Labour Act is a very important law, it clearly determines the fate of all today’s workers, future workers who will work, but also those who have finished working life and live in retirement. These changes or the new law if we compare it to the previous Labour Law, the question of who will be good? Will it benefit workers or will it benefit some individuals else? For example, I'll just say that the moment we're passing the law, and here my colleague mentioned to me earlier that the constructor who had not received the salary for 9 months and planned from tomorrow to start the hunger strike, and for nine months they haven't received the salary, are quite hungry because they can't live, and we have 55 thousand workers who don't get paid in a country where we have more and more poor but there's a smaller group that is very rich and beneficial. In a country where the middle layer of citizens has completely disappeared, which is the middle layer that should live normally, which should provide for all normal conditions so that they can feed themselves, their families and afford what is most necessary to them. The results are clear that they are quite defeating what is being said, and this is the question that because of the lack of conflict, we have more and more problems in the family, we have more and more divorces, we have more and more suicides and situations where individuals simply cannot find a way out of this situation and we have a situation to pass the Labour Act, and the minister says we are not reducing rights. I have to say, perhaps not directly, but with this law we open up space and certainly will be able to reduce workers' rights. It will primarily refer to their receipts because one space opens up that they will have to work for a lower salary, that they will have to keep quiet, that they will be even more afraid. And what the minister says we created mechanisms to sort of protect workers, I have to say that three times as many of the inspectors have to work so that they can't protect the workers in quality, is probably this law written in cabinets, and not with the real state where the workers are and everything they experience and experience every day. We have 320 thousand workers working with employers who have fewer than 20 employees. What rights do these workers have? All they have is a work contract and they have to keep quiet and listen to what the employer tells them. They don't even have a collective contract, they don't even have a labour rule, because that doesn't make them bound. They have their jobs, and if they want to keep it, they have to keep quiet. Clearly, I will not say that all employers are bad employers, there are plenty in this country of good employers who are very well aware of the work of workers, and they know very well that what they create is created by the work of these workers, but we have a lot of employers who are looking forward to getting through as cheaply as possible, to cut off workers in every way and to ensure themselves as much profit and profit as possible. And clearly that's the result of what we have in society. Something that was not the subject of first reading, nor the public debate on the Labour Act, which is the question of the remuneration of workers in related employers in Article 10 of the Law. Now the minister says that, we are not reducing the right to preserve jobs in some way, but that provision that says that the agreement should be signed for 6 months if the worker is rented to another employer, the question is both wages and other rights. And then what if he's offered? You have that solution to work for minimum wage there, or if you stay here, you'll get fired. What's that? Whether these are solutions that will help workers, whether these are solutions that will provide greater income and greater income for workers and get out of this situation to sort of fix the picture of Croatia, not that according to the statistical data we see the purchasing power is increasingly falling, and clearly when purchasing power falls and then what we expected to achieve through the VAT in the budget is not realized and then we enter into a vicious circle where we lack funds. It is clear that both this part and the civil servants and the tenants to whom this law applies, clearly that they are also receiving them, and that we have a situation that will be difficult for us to get out of. Secondly, the question is the solution to what other colleagues have been saying today, and that is the question of working for over 40 hours with another employer. It wouldn't be any problem if we didn't have this many unemployed workers, it wouldn't be a problem if we didn't have a situation if someone hired as a normal time driver, and then on weekends, they took a bus to another country for a trip, crashed that bus to put some families and lives in danger. Now do we offer such solutions with this law and who will then control it in this way, I think it's very difficult. Furthermore, something that should be the basis of the Labour Act, which is the question of encouraging social partners to enter collective agreements, to create a market that will in some way balance the labour price issue in Croatia, we are not trying to cancel this part primarily because we have as cheap a workforce as possible, our workers are running slowly to other countries because they will get higher incomes, they have been educated here, they are part of the funds for their education spent but certainly they value and value their knowledge and their work, and they will earn very well in other countries. And we today, tomorrow without an expert, without those who will leave this country, I'm afraid we won't have a great chance of getting out of this situation. And this is also an example, a question that I said in the replica, a question and extended collective agreements, an extension of collective agreements that should be applied and in some way create that part of the balance, labour prices in Croatia for the same jobs, to ensure some minimum labour price, and clearly that any honest employer who is highly esteemed and held to the workers will greatly stimulate it, will certainly reward it. But what colleagues had previously said and some other assumptions and other things to solve in this country, which is primarily tax policy, it's a question of capital security that will come. And through this part of the amendment of the law, we are not going to solve the questions that we think we are going to solve as we are going to have an even worse situation because the law is opening up that part of the space where we will have cheaper and more insecure labour. That's why I think that through this part and the Labour Club, which part of the amendment has been taken from the union centres that go in order to correct the law and part of its amendments, we have made it a good idea to fix this text of the law and to be more quality and to avoid this in some way in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83775	Thank you. Replica of the respected representative Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83776	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Tušak, yes, I have already pointed out that here you have used and what the unions have delivered to us representatives and in terms of proposing amendments. But it seems to me that this campaign that's been going on since the first reading, even before, and in the meantime, between these two readings, that the campaign has also been succumbed to by the unions. And that these constructive amendments that they have proposed are actually one and only so many corrections of text more cosmetic nature than real. And I don't think these proposals that are here and the amendments don't touch them offer anything new. There used to be talk about working day, about day in general 8, 8, 8, 8 hours of work, 8 hours of rest, 8 hours of sleep. Now, according to this legal proposal, when we look at some analogy, we take 25% of the increase in work, working time, and 25% reduction in vacation time, the dream remains the same. So again, we have reduced to the harm of workers and to the harm of his spare time and in fact all that life does to that worker and every person. From socializing, cultural, sports and all the other upgrades that a man needs, Maric says that man would be human. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83777	Reply to the Replica Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83778	Thank you. Well, my colleague Grubisic, so he just said, "Let's forget the three eights." I can't help but forget the three eights because I think that under normal conditions every worker has to rest and get some sleep. If it will not work and then clearly that his future is uncertain, his health is questionable and the question to which time he can do so. Is this the 67-year-old we're talking about being a retirement age or are we going to do something else that we're going to have more damage in society, more sick workers, more disabled people, which can clearly have its consequences? Clearly, some jobs make it possible to work more because they are not physically tiring, they may not be even psychologically strenuous but there are jobs that need these three eights very much. And I think what we've proposed with the amendments is purely well-intentioned, purely correcting the text. And I think that some of the provisions that stand and we asked for them to be kicked out of the Labour Act now would not be a problem if they were contained in the Labour Act but were differently prescribed, to protect certain workers and then to have certain rules in which it would take place. This is just how they are inserted into the Labour Act and create a great uncertainty and uncertainty for workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83779	Honorable representative Silvano Hrelja, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83780	Dear fellow Tušak, you must naturally be critical and you must seek and improve this law as an opposition club and it is all quite fine, I agree very often with you. But I think you should say some time what's really been done right between the first and second readings, and that's the job of a small employer. You know, the employer's proposal was to make that resignation without any explanation, you know that it didn't go through and that in this reading we have what is our civilization's reach and what should be that every worker has to accept the explanation for the delivery of his resignation and I think it should be said that this is right in this law and that this is a good position in relation to the proposal in the first reading. What I would also agree with you is that the issue of an additional 8 hours for the possibility of earning a worker is not appropriate or at least an example that the boss will allow his cook or waiter to work with the other one is not exactly the right one because I think a good chef will keep his boss from the competition, and he won't let him work with someone else and not even at the wedding, but good. I think that in times of crisis, there's one job divided into two workers, and here we've got maybe some offer and an opportunity for a future when there's a shortage of workers and more jobs, that one worker can work in two jobs or do two jobs. So I think this is ahead of time and it's not going to be an institute that's going to have some really big application. We can be critical of him, but it won't hurt our heads very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83781	Thank you very much. Replica reply, Honored Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83782	Thank you. Well, colleague Silvano, I don't know if your head is going to hurt, but I think some of you are going to have a really bad head. I'm pointing to the problems of those who are going to get it right, and it's going to happen in practice. And that's why we think those solutions should be solved differently. And when it comes to firing small employers, then clearly, we went one step further. We went to have to respect ourselves in some way wherever possible and the social situation and the property situation and that the employer should also be looked at if fired. We're about that if his only solution is to survive to fire the worker, then he has to do it in an honest and just way. And I think that should be the content of the law, and that's why we tried to accept this part of some amendments and give part of their amendments primarily to correct the text of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83783	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. It's time for the Honorable Representative of the Nenad Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83784	I thank the President of the Parliament. I've already expressed my opinion of this law in the replica of the minister, so I would not like to repeat myself, and I would use these 10 minutes to confirm and go through the articles of this law. Article 10, conclusion of a labour contract and the institution of concessions of workers. In paragraphs 3 and 4, the Institute of Temporary Indication of Workers shall be established. The employer may temporarily resign his or her worker to a related company, in terms of specific rules for companies. It is completely unclear to introduce this institute with a special agreement that lasts up to 6 months, and it is concluded between related employers. The worker only gives written consent, the agreement between the two employers, and not the workers, has a headgear to determine for example. place of work, pay, work hours. How is that possible? What happens to a worker who doesn't want to give written consent? Is that going to be a new reason to quit? How can someone else change, even for six months, the responsible relationship between the worker and the original employer? Where is the protection of workers as weak sides and the legal certainty of the same? Article 12 of the employment contract for a specified period of time. The contract on work at a certain time should be an exception to the Croatian legal system, and in practice it is shown to be a frequently misused institute. If the contract of work is a given time of exception, then there should be no case of the employer having the majority of workers performing the activity for which the employer is registered working for a specified period of time, because that is the rule, not the exception. For such situations, additional control should be provided through the employer's obligation to report to the Labour Inspectorate, the crossing of a certain limit of the share of the work contract to a certain time in the total number of contracts with a particular employer. It should certainly be noted here that, when the employer applies to retirement insurance, the contract is made for a certain period of time, which means that there is a record. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European In accordance with point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 3(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. It is completely unclear to introduce such an introduction, more orderly management of legal uncertainty, as the Institute of Prosecution can in this way abuse especially on the lowest jobs and constantly changing workers. Such arrangements shall be without prejudice to the right of the worker to return to work in the event of unauthorised termination, as Article 124, which shall not apply to this type of denunciation. At the same time, Article 117 does not apply, which determines the unwarranted reasons for the failure, which means that it is possible for the worker to not satisfy the probationary work due to the temporary non-occurrence of the disease and therefore to be fired. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is completely unclear and unnecessary to introduce additional work in full and part-time, up to 8 hours a week, or 180 hours a year, by justifying additional earnings and curbing work on black. In relation to the extra income, it is actually a matter of dignity of pay itself, which should be in the interest of state planning. A full-time worker has to work additionally because his salary is too low. It is also unclear how this will prevent the work of black law enforcement. In particular, additional work should be taken into account because of high unemployment and the situation in the labour market, preventing further employment by law. Overtime work, redecorating overtime is completely unclear and inexplicable in an understandable way. The current provision of a maximum of 8 hours per week of overtime has been deleted, and a new provision in paragraph 3 has been laid down. If the worker works overtime, the total length of working hours shall not be longer than 50 hours per week. Overtime work of an individual worker at year level may take up to 180 hours, and a collective contract may set up up to 250 hours a year. How is the question first asked how does this affect the employment of new people? Certainly dimming. How health and safety are affected by work, and in particular the permission that collective agreements can determine up to 250 hours per year for individual workers. In this way, a completely different negotiating position is put in place. In Article 66, the schedule of working hours is so vague and incomplete and unpredictable in practice that rarely anyone will be able to use its provisions and be sure that he has applied them properly. The arrangements should be simplified and the equal and unequal schedule of working hours should be regulated, especially since the redistribution of working time is particularly regulated, which brings additional confusion to the overall work time arrangement. Instead of serving the Institute of Working Time with flexible arrangements and the needs of the organisation of work, such a provision makes for the unhappiness and inability to implement. It's a relative part of the vacation. The new arrangement lays down that the right to a proportionate part of the annual vacation only has a worker who is first employed or who has a break between two working relationships for 8 days and has not passed a period of 6 months of continuous work, is assumed in the calendar year in which the working relationship is based. This would mean that everyone else opens the right to a full vacation, so for example, a person who worked for one employer on April 1st is entitled to a reasonable vacation with that employer who will be paid in cash because the contract ends. Work uninterrupted with another employer and there is a full vacation. A person who would have had a break longer than eight days is completely in the opposite situation. It's supposed to wait six months at the new employer's. How is that possible? The employers will now take advantage of this opportunity and receive workers in a working relationship with a suspension of more than 8 days. The current arrangement is much better, more concrete, more inclusive and there was no need to change it. Cancel the deadline. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Among other things, during pregnancy and other parental rights listed. Article 34(4) lays down that such a person may, although under protection during the winding-up procedure, cancel a working contract for a business reason in accordance with a special regulation. As the commercially conditioned cancellation also implies the termination of the legal person’s existence, it is necessary to regulate this and to ensure that the implementation of the winding-up procedure does not mean the termination of the existence of a legal person, so the possibility of termination should be reconsidered only because of the fact that the winding-up procedure is carried out. It is possible to arrange for labour contracts to cease after the winding-up of the liquidation process. Not much longer, I'm going to say in the end that the bill of law in a lot of terms is inconclusive, vague, inconclusive. There will be great problems in practice and implementation. All of the above, which is only part of the problem, requires essential improvement because the existing Labour Act does not present an immediate danger to either side, so a comprehensive approach, unlike ad hoc access, would be much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83785	Thank you too, dear colleague. Dear representative Maria Ilic, her ten minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83786	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates. Namely, I will be in my debate and so I would like to draw attention to the working-legal position of women. According to the lawyer for gender equality, about 90% of newly employed women work for a certain period of time. Of which 64.9% of women are fertilized and 43.4% are childless even though they want to have them. As the most common type of sexual discrimination based on pregnancy and commitment to children, as many as 34% say no to working contracts. Of the 176 respondents found in a situation where there was no extension of the labour contract, 63.6% believe that the employer denied them the extension of the labour contract because they had become pregnant or used birth rights. It's hard for women to keep a job like when they're pregnant. The negative consequences of such a policy certainly society feels very quickly what it has heard today in several discussions. I hold that the new Labour Act does not radically resuscitate existing unfair relationships in the world of work, especially when making a contract for a certain time. It extends the concept of work to a certain time in the area of the contract and to the area of the contract. Furthermore, there are no identified problems related to a fixed-term contract which is often broken in practice, and mostly to women's harm, as 90% of newly employed women have signed a work contract for a certain period of time according to the available data. The proposed legal text lacks effective protection of women from abuse, especially pregnant women employed for a certain period of time. Additional mechanisms for effective protection of women and pregnant women should therefore be installed. A short period of time has also been proposed in which the employer must not cancel the contract of employment of pregnant women and persons subject to those rights. It is certainly necessary to protect that period from cancelling the employment contract from termination of pregnancy, i.e. the termination of the application of those rights from the proposed 15 days to at least 30 days. It seems to me, therefore, that there is a tendency to introduce, as a dominant form of working relationship, an atypical form of work contract, i.e. a fixed-term contract. It is not in the spirit of the recommendation adopted by the EU parliament recently, and on the fact that such work, of course, is meant to work for a certain time, should be an exception, not a rule. However, the proposal for a Labour Act Article 12(1) and Article 16 provides for the possibility of extending the conclusion of a contract to a specified time and to transactions covering the subject of a contract on work and seasonal affairs. Other legal decisions on working for a certain time have not undergone any significant changes, so that the situation in this segment of work will remain unimportant for pregnant women, mothers with young children and single parents. Let us remind then that women in Croatia are less paid than men, on average by 10%, and after the end of the working age, the result is that they get 23% less pension than men even though they have equal years of training. For many years, statistics show that women in the labour market in Croatia are in a much more unfavourable position than men. The labour market is an area where women are highly discriminated against. From the moment they step out of the education process and go into the world of work, women face discrimination. This is the first thing that happens in the process of looking for work when they are asked whether they have a family, and if they do not have a family, that is, when they intend to stay pregnant and how they intend to comply with their private and professional obligations. Here comes the story, so on discrimination against women in the world of work, and thus women are automatically placed in a more unfavourable position than male colleagues. Therefore, a provision should be incorporated into the law prohibiting workers from asking for data on pregnancy, pregnancy planning, marital and family status and sexual orientation. In particular, it concerns and does not satisfy the low rate of women's work activity, an even lower rate of employment of women in Croatian society and the fact that women within all educational groups lose their position on the labour market and lose their position in greater numbers than men and increase the unemployment rate among highly educated women in general and in comparison with men because women represent 60% of the highly educated staff came from higher schools in the last five years. The current Law on Labour and, in accordance with the Law on Gender Equality, protected women from the rules on the prohibition of discrimination. Anti-discriminatory grounds have now been kicked out of the Labour Act because they exist in the Law on Gender Equality or in the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, which, due to the longer-term poorer position of women in the labour market, does not constitute progress or good will of the proposings. Because we believe that the Labour Act should also clearly identify anti-discriminatory grounds in accordance with these two laws and finally launch stronger mechanisms to improve women's position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83787	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party club, five minutes of finally respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83788	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83789	There you go, too late. Well, I shouldn't have hung up, but good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83790	Dear President, you can be tolerant and allow your colleagues to speak, but it was too late to report to our Rules of Procedure. He applied for a debate on behalf of the club too late. Read the Rules of Procedure, we've changed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83791	I accept sin on my own soul. I guess it'll hold All right, let's keep fellow Gjurkovic going. [[Intruder Hrelja: We will endure no problem.]] Here you go, five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83792	So, today, we were discussing, or at the HNS club, we have one feeling that the discussion of the Labour Act alone was directed partly, we can justify but not specifically clear for valid reasons that this flexibility will disastrously reflect on the current employees. And what is crucial for this bill that shows essentially the government's determination to take the necessary steps to improve the employment of the population. Most of them debated the impact on employees, and little debate on the impact on the unemployed and ensuring the possibility of higher employment. Because at the moment in Croatia, only 60% of them are working or actively seeking employment from a working age of between 20 and 64, and employment rates for those aged 15 and 64 below 50%, among the lowest in Europe. And that is one of the key reasons for the reforms and the labour law, not just the conditions of the employees, the way in which the dismissal was discussed today. This key document to succeed in raising the employment level of the working population so that Croatia can move forward. When we talk about wages and conditions, we are all probably real aware that wages are related to productivity levels and less to laws, and that laws create conditions for these productivity and costs to be reduced. If both Hungary and Romania, x countries have a minimum of 10% higher employment of the working-active population and more flexible legislation, if successful countries in the European Union have more flexible legislation and a legislative framework that has ensured greater employment, then it is quite clear that this Labour Act that does not have too much flexibility that has been discussed when this Labour Act has been debated at all, but he, if we do not flexible this existing one, means we adopt and believe that we will pass this Labour Act. We will ensure space that ultimately and the income of employees of the existing and that there is new employment and economic growth. And that is essentially the key to this law, to open the space easier and easier to hire and more employees in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83793	Thank you too, dear colleague Gjurkovic. For the public and minutes of our colleagues, we will read Article 233(6) of that article and discuss your objection to the infringement of the Rules of Procedure. After all the representatives who have applied for the debate have completed their speech, representatives of the club representatives may request a word again and may then speak for a maximum of 5 minutes, regardless of whether the representative of the club of representatives has already participated in the topic of the agenda. No need to interpret it, I think it's clear to everyone that there was no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. And now, on behalf of the motionary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Minister of Labour, Honored Miranda Mrsic, final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83794	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank all the clubs for the amendments they've sent us. We are going to be clear about these amendments and thank you very much for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83795	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. That's when the debate on the text of the law ended. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83796	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Labour Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 606. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the I am giving the Rules of Procedure the motion to vote and to decide on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that with 84 votes in favour and 20 against, we have decided to discuss amendments to the government. I ask Minister Miranda Mrsic, Minister of Labour and Pension System to explain Amendment No. 1st..
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83797	Since the affairs of the Labour Inspectorate have been taken over by the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, it is unnecessary to prescribe an obligation for the Ministry to supply and exchange data within its organisational units.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83798	I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I ask that we make a statement about the amendment submitted by the Government. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that the amendment has been accepted by 83 votes in favour and 20 against. Amendment No. 2nd of Article 66th of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83799	If an unequal schedule of working time is agreed by collective agreement as a total fund of hours, that is, the bank of hours then no restrictions on the maximum week of work shall apply to such contracted work. ... Oh, sorry, a little slower. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You got it. Where an unequal race-time schedule is agreed by a collective agreement as a total fund of hours or a bank of hours then no restrictions on the maximum weekly work of workers shall apply on such agreed schedule, both in Article 66(6) and paragraph 7 of the same article, in which sense the provision of paragraph 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83800	I'm opening a debate. Comrade Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83801	Mr. Minister, if I understand this correctly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83802	Here's to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83803	If I understand correctly the explanation that the minister has now spoken and written about this amendment with this game and by inserting another paragraph in Article 66. In fact, after the debate in the Assembly and negotiations with the social partners, the government shall allow for the introduction of a working week and longer than 60 hours, without the restrictions set out in paragraphs 6 and 7 of Article 66. And on the condition that it's so arranged by a collective agreement. This means that the employer, therefore, is clear to me on whose request this Government comes with this amendment. But I really don't understand if they understand what they're doing. This is the small correction of Article 66 encourages the creation of factory yellow unions with 10 members who will have one single function to sign a collective agreement that the working day lasts 13 hours and 6 days a week. 12, 15, whatever you want. This is amazing that in 2014 with such an amendment to our draft law after all the public debate, we allow the debates in the Assembly to increase even more than 60 hours with an excuse if it is so arranged by collective agreement. There is no recorded situation in the country where the government encourages collective agreements and now it is actually seen to encourage the creation of yellow factory unions, factory collective agreements as a fig leaf for the introduction of a working week longer than 60 hours. And then probably these super-affiliated vehicles and techniques equipped labour inspectors will cruise Croatia and oversee such collective agreements and thus unequally deployed fund hours in the course of one week in part of the calendar year. If the existing Article 66 has already been too much to swallow because of the ambiguity of this intervention, this amendment of this Act on Labour, particularly because of the working week and the right of the employer to schedule working hours has indeed exceeded every measure and has shed a glass of tolerance towards the applicant because of the fact that they are coming with the amendment after a full public debate. Obviously, the intention of this intervention has been present from the very beginning but it has been waiting for the Parliament to complete the debate and the public debate with the social partners, so that the Parliament can complete the debate and then enter with such an amendment minutes before the vote on the law. This is scandalous behavior and the minister and the government as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83804	No more club representatives reported. I would like to make a statement on the amendment to Government No. 2. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that the government's amendment was accepted by 76 votes in favour, 24 against and 2 abstentions. Please, Ministers of Amendment No. 3. in Article 162.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83805	In Article 162(4), number 220 is replaced by 219, so a wrong appeal to the article of the law is corrected.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83806	I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I give the adoption of Amendment 3. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that the amendment was passed by 82 votes in favour and 21 against. Amendment No 4 to Article 190.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83807	The amendment corrects the wrong appeal to the article of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83808	I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'd like to make a statement about the amendment. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that with 82 votes in favour and 22 against Amendment 4 accepted. Amendment No 5 to Article 203.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83809	Since the level at which the collective contract is concluded determines when the collective contract is concluded, it is not possible to link that concept to the Institute for the Enlargement of the collective contract, given that the collective contract whose extension is required is extended to the area of activity rather than to a certain level.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83810	I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm giving for the adoption of the amendments. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that with 83 votes in favour and 22 against Amendment 5. Amendment No 6 to Article 224.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83811	The amendment to the text of Article 224 of the Nomotechnical and Horizontal Code shall be brought into line with the whole of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83812	I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I am giving the amendment to the amendment. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that with 83 votes in favour, 8 against and 14 abstentions, the amendment has been accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83813	In view of the fact that the maximum duration of the reference of workers to a related company abroad in the provision of Article 18(4) is extended to two years, a factual description of the offence referred to in Article 229(1) subparagraph 5 is necessary to comply with the parent provision of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83814	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm giving for the adoption of the amendments. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that with 83 votes in favour and 23 against an accepted amendment to the government. Now we will move on to the amendments submitted by the representatives and committees. We have a special plate that's divided into benches. I'm asking the Ministers to make a statement on the amendments. Legislative Committee, Amendment No 1 to Article 1 shall continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83815	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83816	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HSU to Article 10
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83817	It's unacceptable. The possibility of misrepresenting workers between related employers is completely misunderstood and interpreted exclusively from the aspect of possible abuses and inefficient inspection supervision because the aim of this institute is to preserve jobs and remain in the employment status of those workers who, due to the termination of the need for their work, may be fired from business conditions. In view of the fact that such a concession is not possible without written consent of the workers, we are of the opinion that in this situation the worker is independently making a decision whether to give consent and to work for a specific period of time for the related employer or to expose himself to the risk of termination of a working relationship in which, in order to protect the rights of workers, it is not necessary to carry out a consultation process with the working council, but should only be informed of this because it is not a unilateral decision by the employer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83818	A colleague, Silvano Hrelja, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83819	I do not want to doubt perhaps the possible good outcomes and application of this institute, but this institute has come to this between the two readings and has been sufficiently discussed with the social partners and we have not been presented with projections. Therefore, we believe that the consent of the staff board to this whole procedure, not on individual rights, would be good. Therefore, we stay with our position and ask for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83820	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 3 of the SDSS Representatives Club, Amendment No. 4 of the Croatian Labour Clubs and Amendment No. 5 of the representatives of Goran Marić are identical, and in accordance with Rule 202 of Article 202(6) of the Rules of Procedure on such amendments, no statement has been made as to the amendment proposed by the HSU Club. Amendment number 6. SDSS counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83821	It's unacceptable. The proposal for amendments to Article 12 is not acceptable because it follows that in the case of a first working contract for a specified period of more than 3 years, the following contract could not be concluded at all for a specified time, even in the event of the replacement of a temporary non-existent worker, which is by no means the purpose of the restriction. The restriction shall be prescribed solely for the purpose of preventing the abuse of successive employment contracts at a specified time when there is no objective reason for it, but it shall not result in a worker who has worked for a certain period of time for more than three years with the same employer having to stop working relationship even if there is an objective reason for the following contract to be allowed by law or collective agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83822	Mile Horvat on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83823	Thank you. Mr. Minister, according to our seeing things, the working relationship of a certain time was otherwise very susceptible to various abuses. That's what some of the experiences we've been doing say. So in our amendment, we have defined this working relationship as an exceptional working relationship, an exceptional model of working relationship. We, in this amendment, have also foreseen a variety of life situations that this model of working relationship could be burdening for a certain period of time, and the basic thing is that we don't think that it should be longer than three years in total. I repeat, we have situations that some people have been working for 15 years and various abuses of that model are constantly for a certain time. So we think that with this amendment, we should, therefore, try to avoid the possibility that by abuse of a working relationship for a certain period of time some people also welcome a pension. I'm asking for a statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83824	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 7. The Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists and Amendment number 8 of Representatives Goran Marić are identical and we have already spoken about them. Amendment number nine. HSU counseling club. Please, Ministers to Article 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83825	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83826	This also accepted amendment number 10 submitted by the Croatian Labour Club. Number 11. Croatian Labour Representatives' Club on Article 15
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83827	It's unacceptable. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. If the additives were to be taxed, the proposed worker would not be able to make possible additions from other sources. In view of the fact that salaries and pay allowances for a large number of workers in the public and public services system are governed by specific regulations, it is not clear what would apply to them if the labour law had deleted this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83828	On behalf of the promoter, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83829	Dear Mr. Minister, pay, salary allowance and increased salary are not the same things. Payments and salary allowance are one category, and workers' right to an increased salary for difficult working conditions, overtime, night work, work on Sundays, holidays or on another day prescribed not to work is not regulated by law in a sufficient way. Because all it says is that the worker has the right to raise the salary, not to pay, but to raise the salary. In theory, this means that an overtime employer can pay off one lip-enlarged salary and thus fulfil his legal obligation. But this amendment of ours refers to the mandatory content of the labor contract. Therefore, we have proposed that the employer’s contract of employment, apart from salary and salary allowance, should be regulated by the contract in particular if there is no collective contract or regulation and increased wages for these cases. If this isn't a work contract, and I remind you that 325000 workers work with employers who don't have to bring in a labour rule. These are the small employers to whom the worker can be called when it comes to his right to raise wages, say working on Sundays or overtime. By refusing the mandatory content of the job contract for increased wages, you're actually leaving hunting opportunities in a blur. And the appeal to other laws is abused in a way that the contract on work in the category, in the pay clause, is written in accordance with the Minimum Payment Act. And that allows you to enter into a minimum wage contract. You know that, that's what the inspectors warned you about, but you deliberately keep that fact quiet. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83830	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 12. Representatives of Croatian Labourers' Club on Article 18
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83831	It's unacceptable. If the admission of workers within related companies abroad is possible, it is also necessary to allow the remuneration of workers within the related employers established in different countries where the related companies exercise the right based on business creation to take particular account of the fact that the territory of the Republic of Croatia is now only one part of the European economic area in which the conditions of business must be equal, i.e. non-discriminatory on the basis of the seat. This enables the provision of jobs for our companies abroad, and thus the preservation of jobs and their employees.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83832	On behalf of the promoter, Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83833	Minister, you are right that Article 18 actually applies and is related to Article 10. In Article 10 of which you have refused to introduce workers to leave in Croatia, and Article 18 of this same lease or Leasing worker is also introduced for abroad. And those who wrote amendments to Article 10 and missed Article 18 have practically made a mistake to ban lying in Croatia, but have allowed for the EU area, that is, abroad. You're probably proud of this provision. But I remind you that even in practice so far, this Leasing has been used on three pillars, three companies interlinked to which workers have been transferred to that connected society that had nothing. Property in company A, business through company Ba workers in company C. And any attempt to collect work claims for salaries or any other material rights has failed on the fact that the company has no property or funds from which they can be charged. You are that practice, abuse, manipulation of these hyenas on the labour market that you call employers and in fact the robbers are, in a small part, present for good luck, in fact now you are legalizing and expanding beyond the borders of Croatia. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83834	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 13. Croatian Labour Representatives' Club on Article 26.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83835	It's unacceptable. Considering that it is the employer's autonomous right to organise business processes and to organise the work of the opinion, we believe that it is his autonomous right to decide on all those issues that he considers necessary to regulate them by the Labour Regulation. Since the Labour Regulation is adopted by the employer in consultation with the Working Council, therefore, in cooperation with the representatives of the workers, we do not find any additional need to prescribe in Article 26 of the final proposal that the Minister, in cooperation with the social partners, prescribes the mandatory content of the Labour Regulation which may depend on a series of specific circumstances of each employer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83836	On behalf of the promoter Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83837	On the contrary, we think that we should agree with the social partners on what is minimum what should be regulated by the labour rules in order to equalise the rights and obligations arising from the Labour Regulation for all employers who have to adopt the Labour Regulation and employ more than 20 employees. This is how we will have a situation where we will have different situations and different obligations arising from the law, which is not good in a uniform practice of minimum what the employer must prescribe to his labour rules. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83838	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 14. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers on Article 28, i.e. the new Article 28a.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83839	It's unacceptable. The mobbing matter in the workplace is not subject to the regulation of the Labour Act which primarily regulates the relations of workers and employers. The problem of mobbing should also be addressed within the framework of the Labour Protection Act or in particular the rules in which the possibilities of normative regulation of the area are considered.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83840	Dragutin Lesar, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83841	Mr. Minister, Croatian legislation aside from one provision of the Penal Code does not know the category of abuse at work. I'll read it to you now, and that's what you had to know, recommendation no. 28-year-old attorney general's office. The Ministry of Labour and the Pension System that the Institute of Labour Abuse, i.e. mobing norms under labour law or the provisions of the Labour Act or of a special regulation, respecting the difference between harassment as a form of discrimination and abuse at work. I mentioned the Penal Code, which knows the crime of abuse at work, but if it's at the expense of the health of the workers. But we don't even have a category if it's to harm, say, the professional position of an employee. And for this reason, we have suggested that we introduce protection against abuse as a norm and later provisions if you have read our amendment to protect itself from mobbing or abuse by special law that is more detailedly regulated. You, refusing this amendment, are also refusing the recommendation of the Advocate General from the document adopted by this House. And secondly, why are you afraid to protect workers from abuse at work? What's the problem? What are these arguments that you do not want to have a single standard in the labour law that will allow the adoption of a special law on the protection of abuse in the workplace? It was an amendment, a special law on the subject, and we wrote it to you in the amendment. But you don't read the amendment either, obviously. Because then we would realize that this amendment actually opens up the possibility of a special law. You refuse even that. Of course I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83842	Thank you. Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 15. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83843	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83844	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No. 16. The Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourers on Article 32
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83845	It is not accepted because the same amendment of the SDP Representatives Club is previously accepted in different terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83846	We accept the explanation and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83847	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. The same amendment is also Amendment No. The 17th representative of Jadranka Kosor will not be spoken of. Since the previous amendment has been withdrawn, Comrade Kosor, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83848	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Since the spirit of the proposal has been accepted, then I withdraw the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83849	Thank you very much. And Amendment No. The 17th has been withdrawn. Amendment No. 18. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83850	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83851	It becomes an integral part of the law. Number 19. Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourers – Party of work on Article 34.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83852	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amendment shall not be accepted as regards paragraph 3. The adoption of the amendments could lead to a reduction in the rights of particularly protected categories of workers for which the cancellation of the labour contract during the winding-up process is possible. Namely, the winding-up procedure is initiated with the aim of eradicating the employer from the relevant register during which all the obligations are met and all claims are charged and workers, on the basis of their business terms and conditions, shall exercise the right to an cancellation period and of the severance. If those categories of workers were to be prescribed that their labour contract ceases on the day of completion of the liquidation procedure, then the same as in the event of the death of a natural person's employer, the termination of the law-forced craftsman and the erasure of the trader from the register would not have been effected because their contract would have ceased by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83853	Zlatko Tušak on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83854	Well, I can't accept this part of the argument when it comes to the liquidation process, because in the very winding-up procedure if a work contract is cancelled, and that doesn't mean that the winding-up itself isn't over, this is a process, and the existence of this company, so we think that after the winding-up process can only end a contract on workers' work. And please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83855	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 20 of Jadranka Kosor's colleagues is the same as the previous one we have already declared. Amendment No 21 of the SDP Representatives Club to Article 35
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83856	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83857	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No 22 of the Croatian Labour Representatives Club on articles also 35.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83858	It is not accepted, as the same amendment from the club of representatives in a different statement has previously been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83859	Gold shower.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83860	We accept the explanation and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83861	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. The amendment of 23 colleagues to Jadranka Kosor is the same as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83862	Yeah, and I'm withdrawing the amendment because we accept this explanation and as much as the Labour Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83863	Amendment number 23 has been withdrawn. Amendment No 24 of the Croatian Labourers' Club of Representatives to Article 41
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83864	It's unacceptable. The amendment in relation to the replacement of the consent of the working council to the termination of the labour contract referred to in Article 41 of the final proposal is not acceptable because the judicial proceedings in disputes of this type have been too long, while the proposed arbitration procedure will now be much more economical and faster, and the worker will continue to be able to protect his rights in the court proceedings. This is because in the event that the arbitration decision replaces the consent of the worker, the worker will be able to dispute the authorisation and the legal denunciation that he received on the basis of that consent. The addition of Article 41 is not acceptable because the right to double severance is only for workers who have suffered a work injury or have suffered from a professional disease and after treatment, recovery and professional rehabilitation the employer cannot provide them with adequate jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83865	Zlatko Tušak on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83866	Thank you. It is a matter of workers with reduced working ability or a direct threat to the creation of a reduction in their working ability, and therefore we consider that if the working council has denied consent for the dismissal of workers that access must be granted to the court and not only arbitration as prescribed. And I think everyone has the right to approach the court and to choose whether to exercise their right through court or arbitration. And as far as cancellation is concerned, we think that this category of workers should certainly be protected from one side and in case they are fired from having the right to severance in double amounts from ordinary workers, is that it would be a compensation primarily for those workers to come to a new job. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83867	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No 25 of the Croatian Labour Representatives Club on Article 42
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83868	It's unacceptable. The amendment significantly raises the level of severance for certain categories of workers because this category of workers is already making a double severance to other workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83869	Zlatko Tušak on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83870	Well, just like in the previous case, but this is about workers who have suffered a work injury and we believe that in case the employer can't secure a new job where these workers will work if they run out of work that they need to be compensated in a way that gives them a larger amount and that's in the triple amount of severance on the basis of the other workers. And please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83871	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 26 of the Croatian Labour Representatives Club on Article 45.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83872	It's unacceptable. The amendments to Article 45 of the final proposal do not contribute to the improvement of the institute but only burden materially on the documentation, as it is important for the derogation of workers to carry out the tasks and not on which the knowledge and skills of the employed workers should have, nor does the proposal to establish through collective agreements jobs where the work of the decommissioned workers cannot be used is not acceptable because it is contrary to the provisions of Article 4(1). Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 November 2008 on the work of temporary employment agencies which prohibit or restrict the use of the work of deposed workers only because of general interests or the protection of health and safety at work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83873	Zlatko Tušak on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83874	Such a provision of a contract on the admission of workers to agencies between the Agency and users in which the prescribed skills and knowledge for individual posts will not be defined, Article 49 will not be respected where the Agency must meet the workers with the work obligations it must operate. Furthermore, this part of agency workers will be abused and these workers will also have to work in those jobs for which they are not trained. And for this reason, I request a vote on the amendment primarily to protect this part of the category of agency workers that must be regulated between the employer, between the agency and the user with whom the contract with the agencies is concluded. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83875	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 27 of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS to Article 46
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83876	It's unacceptable. The amendment to Article 46 of the final proposal is not acceptable because it does not comply with the European Parliament and the Council Directive of 19 November 2008 on the work through temporary employment agencies, given that it accurately lists the working conditions which must be the same for the employed worker as for the comparable worker of the user himself, as well as the possibility of collective bargaining for the level of agencies and trade unions. Given that the level of rights agreed by the collective agreement depends on negotiations, the interests of both parties agreed, just any restriction or ban on collective bargaining was contrary to the international agreements which the Republic of Croatia has made. In addition, no... in no way would there be any discrimination related to salary compensation for a period where the worker is not admitted because the worker who is employed at a specified time in order to make concessions to the user will not make that compensation because, after the expiry of the period of entry of the labour contract, it will cease.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83877	On behalf of the proposer, Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83878	Thank you. Mr. Minister, we, in the debate about this law, told the club's position on the agency's work, and now I'm not going to repeat it. With this amendment, we have said that during the period when the employed worker is not admitted to the user, he has the right to pay the salary determined in the manner set out in Article 93, so we want to equalise all categories of workers in that agency who are eligible. If we already give them up and have already accepted the Institute of Labour Deviations, we see no reason to discriminate between workers on a specific and workers indefinitely. So we think that these workers, for an indefinite period of time, also have the right to pay wages to wait for new labour duties at the Institute of Indulgence. So, even when I was talking about the amendment to article 12 concerning a working relationship for a certain period of time, I warned that the institute of work at a certain time was very susceptible to various manipulations and that it led to discrimination of working relationships, i.e. employees at a certain time. So please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83879	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 28 of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers to Article 46, paragraph 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83880	As regards paragraph 3, the argument has already been explained in the previous amendment. In paragraph 4, subparagraph 7 behind the word pay is added the words right to an increased salary... working conditions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The conditions of employment of the established worker must be compared with a comparable worker who does exactly the same work and is employed by the user because a discretionary assessment of similar jobs could lead to abuse. The basis and purpose of these amendments of the law is to encourage employment indefinitely in agencies, therefore the article, the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers on Article 44, is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83881	Dragutin Lesar, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83882	The intention is to strengthen and stimulate employment indefinitely. That's your explanation. In the amendment, we proposed that the remuneration for workers, agency... be at the same time or indefinitely, that the labour contract should be entered into the right of workers to an increased salary for overtime, nighttime, holiday work. To add to the same or similar jobs he is working on to prevent employers from being abused in terms of interpreting the same or similar and avoiding migration after 3 years to a second job and thus allowing him to hold not 3 but 33 years. And that collective agreements cannot determine less rights than is laid down by the Labour Act. Why a collective contract if it allows less rights than the Labour Act to be established? And your explanation of the rejection of the amendment that you want employers through agency workers to hire indefinitely. Why would they hire indefinitely when you allow them to keep one and the same employee with them at the firm for 33 years, and it's 40 percent cheaper, approximately. Agency employment and the possibility of introducing such an interpretation as an opportunity to create new jobs. Only existing workers will be translated into agency workers indefinitely, and this provision is probably in line with your friend Bandic because this has already been done in Zagreb Holding, and that is why I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83883	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 29 of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS to Article 48
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83884	It's unacceptable. The amendment, which shortens the maximum duration of the derogation in Article 48, cannot be accepted in view of the fact that, in the whole European area, this period is longer than one year and the durations stemming from the rules of coordination of the social security system and would place the Croatian Agency in a more marketable position than the agencies of other Member States by shortening that period.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83885	Milorad Pupovac, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83886	Dear Mr. Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, the SDSS's Club considers that by not accepting this amendment, which is expressed in the union's position, the government of the Republic of Croatia actually creates assumptions, first for expanding the work cycle to a certain time that is now available with the powers that come through agency employment. Secondly, assumptions are being made for discrimination between workers between those who have an indefinite contract and those who have a contract for a certain period of time. and third, in this way, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall adopt a legislative provision which is contrary to the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19.11.2008 which states "After consulting the social partners of the Member States, they may offer them at an appropriate level and subject to conditions which Member States shall determine the possibility to retain or conclude collective agreements in which, while respecting general protection for temporary employment workers, they may establish provisions which may differ from those laid down in paragraph 1.". Mr. Minister, with this stipulation, the issue of work and the question of worker status is further expanding to the status of temporaryity. Thank you very much for listening to me, please, because so far you have shown an interest in these amendments as you have now shown it during my argument, Mr. Minister, I certainly have no hope that after that it has been carried out. ... Madam Vice President, since the minister didn't listen to me then you'll give me a chance to say what I need to say. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Since the privatisation of funds has now been implemented, additional privatisation of people's work is being carried out through the employment agency system.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83887	You're looking for a vote. Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. The same text is the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers, 31 MPs of Jadranka Kosor and 32 representatives of Goran Marić and we have already spoken about it. Amendment 33 of the Representatives of Jadranka Kosor to Article 60
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83888	The amendment does not accept that Article 60 of the Regulation and the matter of calculating working time during the official road is logical and would be acceptable if that issue could be regulated by a general provision, however, this is not possible. In practice, since a number of different forms of official travel are being made under different conditions and in different ways of calculating working time is being dealt with through interpretations for each type of service route in particular.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83889	Jadranka Kosor on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83890	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, work on the official journey is not regulated at all and often its duration is much longer than working hours and I therefore consider it necessary to regulate it. Where? It is precisely in the Labour Act, in such a way that the promotion is read during the official work trip that the worker spends doing jobs for the employer, and at least in accordance with his schedule of working hours. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83891	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 34 of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS to Article 61
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83892	It is not accepted, the amendment cannot be accepted because Article 61(2), in relation to Article 160(3), is a special provision which allows the full-time duration of the agreement to be determined by the employer because the same employer cannot regulate a unilateral decision, and in the event where the employer does not act, the employer's union would be disabled to establish full-time less than 40 hours a week. Enabling additional work proposed in the provisions of Article 61 and 62 of the final proposal does not have or will, in practice, lead to a shared job or to the provision of work by a single worker in two jobs, as it allows them to carry out those tasks that are occasional, one-time and short-term and do not have all the essential features of the workplace at all. In assessing that this type of work has been done so far, but on black, and because of the great interest shown in the supplemental work by full-time workers, we conclude that there is a need for such a form of market work. Therefore, in order to combat all emerging forms of work on black, of which it is the most important to do one-time part-time short-term tasks, such work is proposed by the Institute with the simultaneous protection of workers' rights. In fact, the additional work would be allowed for a maximum duration of 8 hours a week and up to 180 hours a year provided that the employer or employer for whom the worker works in full-time gives his consent to such work because the same could otherwise be covered by the legal prohibition of competition with the employer. By limiting hours of additional work and while banning their overtime, these workers are protected from excessive work in the same way that workers are protected from overtime. Evaluating the good results of the implementation of the new seasonal employment institute on temporary or occasional jobs in agriculture, which has done so in black farming in an appropriate manner regulated and legal manner and enabling additional work could have an impact on the repression of the grey economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83893	On behalf of the promoter, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83894	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister. Therefore, since Article 160(3) of the Law lays down that the agreement between the employer and the working council cannot regulate the matter of the duration of working time, that is, the second paragraph of which we are investing in the amendment of this article should be brought into line with that determination in a way that the words of the agreement concluded between the working council and the employer are deleted. Complementary work is only possible for those who have the status of workers and satisfys the need for additional income. This extends the working hours and hours of the week, which means that we will work longer and more after a centuries of struggle for a shorter working week. The additional work, unfortunately, does not address the issue of unemployment because we see other countries in such conditions just shortening the working week. For these reasons, as well as for the reason that the Government on the one hand advocates that one job is divided into two, and in this case it advocates two jobs being done by one perpetrator. Thus, the government has shown by this example that it actually meets the needs of certain employers more than it does to protect workers, which is the basic purpose and basic purpose of this Law. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83895	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 35. The Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists is identical, so we have already spoken about it. Amendment 36. The SDSS representative's club shall be referred to in Article 62(3).
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83896	It's unacceptable. We gave an explanation at Article 61. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83897	Milorad Pupovac, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83898	For the same reasons why the Government, or the Minister, does not accept this amendment, we ask that it be accepted. So the additional reason allows only those who have the status of workers to work on the basis of a working contract or in full or part-time and those who do not have it are unfortunately not allowed to do so, thus extending working hours and working week, working hours per week. Which means we'll work again longer and we'll probably work for less money. That's why we're asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83899	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendments 37. The club of representatives of Croatian Labourists and 38 representatives of Goran Marić are identical and we have already spoken about them. Amendment 39. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers, as referred to in Article 65.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83900	The government doesn't accept the amendment. It is unnecessary to shorten the oral order for overtime the employer must give to the worker within 48 hours as the work and working time records are made at the weekly level. It is not possible to accept an amendment to the weekly overtime of 8 hours due to a redesigned work-time schedule institute that allows for and longer overtime in weeks when workers work shorter than their full-time hours, which is in accordance with the European Parliament and Council Directive of 4 November 2003 and has been defined by aspects of the organisation of working time that do not restrict overtime, but in order to protect workers limits the weekly intensity of workers. It is also unacceptable to propose that collective agreements cannot negotiate more overtime at the annual level than the bank for hours because they will then be negotiated and agreed upon by trade unions and employers in which we do not find that workers can be unprotected through that source of rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83901	Zlatko Tušak on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83902	Thank you. Well, overtime so far has been most of the manipulation of employers with workers where they haven't been paid overtime. You with the provision that, when overtime is ordered, the employer should only provide the correction after 7 days that overtime is required and you continue to allow that manipulation so that workers are not paid for overtime. And practically within these provisions where you don't allow overtime to be maximum 8 stop per week that promise of yours to forget three eights, three, eight hours of work, eight hours of rest and eight hours of sleep. With the provision of this law, there will be a possible manipulation of employers with workers, so I am asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83903	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 40. The SDSS representative's club shall be referred to in Article 65(3).
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83904	Explanation as well as for the previous amendment. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83905	Miles Horvat, on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83906	Thank you. I could almost join my co-worker at the Labour Club. Therefore, our proposal for this amendment is that paragraph 3 is changed and reads as follows: "The overtime of an individual worker should not last longer than 8 hours a week.". We think this is even more humane and we think it's a better formula for overtime than what the government is proposing. And the government suggests 50 hours, we're perfectly logically looking for some kind of normal definition of eight hours a week, that's about 48 hours. In the end, that's how it's been. And we see no reason why this should be changed and what we get at the quality of overtime if we accept the government's proposal. In any case, I support a colleague who said that we had long ago, long gone from that ideal of the three eights we once had. And these are the definitions we're trying to make pretty, pretty much this whole thing about three eights, forget it. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83907	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. The amendment of the 41st legislator Goran Maric is identical to the previous one and we have spoken of him. Amendment 42. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83908	It is not accepted that overtime is not limited in its duration, it may take longer in case of an emergency. But it doesn't always have to be overtime, because through an unequal schedule of working hours, it can be reduced to regular hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83909	Boro Grubišić on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83910	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr Minister, it was necessary by law to regulate the exceptional rule of overtime for a longer period of time to be proposed in Articles 65, paragraphs 3 and 4 precisely for the reasons that we have witnessed here this year and also for the earlier years of the situation of direct endangerment or elemental accident in which cases for certain activities, I say there was an extraordinary need for overtime. For example, for the water economy and the like. Unfortunately, I see you have rejected this amendment. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83911	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 43 is identical to the amendment 39 proposed by counterpart Jadranka Kosor and already spoken of. Amendment 44 of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers on Article 66
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83912	The government doesn't accept. The Institute of Working Time Schedules has one article in a meaningful chronological order in order to monitor the use of the Institute in its application more easily and efficiently. The proposed amendment merely unnecessarily separates one legal institute into two norms.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83913	Zlatko Tušak on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83914	Thank you. This complicated article in 66 is practically planted, vague, just so that the schedule of working time could be abused. That is why we have suggested that it be clearer, that it should be covered through two articles and that the schedule of working hours and the longest duration of working hours is clearly regulated because such a provision can be misused. And workers are just the most deprived because the definition of working time schedule is not clearly established in this area, and... I must also warn myself that the adoption of the amendments that the Government has given to Article 66 remains practically the only protection of the EU directive, which is that it is prescribed for a minimum of 11 hours of rest and 24 hours a week, and the minimum week of rest is then 24 hours in 7 days, which means that workers will work 13 hours if they are regulated by collective agreements, 6 hours a day, which means maximum and up to 78 hours a week, as prescribed and regulated by the current provisions of Article 66. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83915	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 45 of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers to Article 67 paragraph 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83916	The government doesn't accept. In the case of redistribution of working hours, it is the employer’s obligation that the worker’s working hours for the period of the total redistribution will be reduced to much or incomplete working hours, and anything that would appear as hours in excess of full-time workers will always be considered overtime.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83917	Dragutin Lesar on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83918	The minister says it will always be considered overtime. So what's this about? The redistribution of working hours is a worker by order of the employer, not by arrangement but by order working 50 hours a week, and after three months, the working relationship ceases, for example, because of the death of the worker, the termination of the employer, the disease of the workers, the personal conditioned resignation. We have proposed an amendment that would make it clear in the Labour Act that certain hours during the redistribution of working hours must be considered an overtime. And the minister, refuting the amendment, says it will be considered that way. So if that's how it's going to be considered, then why don't we put it in the law because we know what kind of problems you've been having lately with the interpretation of the law, and we'll probably have to give the authentic interpretation of this labour law soon. But there's one more thing I'd like to note, when the amendments surrender, they get the sign of the order handing over to the manual log, P.Z. 606/1, /2,/3,/4, /5. The Laburista Club's amendments were submitted under number 2, and today, at the time of the statement and this summary review, those who were handed over under number 6, 7, 8 are suddenly under number 1. Why? Especially the SDP amendment. To allow the minister to accept amendments to the SDP which are, by content, the same or similar as the opposition. That's why they made a maneuver not to put the minister in a position to accept some opposition proposal. And then they went so far that the order of amendments moved past the order of surrender. Are you so afraid to accept some opposition amendment that even that manipulation you work in the Croatian Parliament?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83919	Thank you very much. Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83920	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83921	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 46 of Jadranka Kosor to Article 70.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83922	It's unacceptable. This issue has already been settled by the Law on maternity and parental support and is as this law horizontally in line with that regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83923	A colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83924	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Your Honor, Madam Vice President. I call on all my fellow MPs in the Croatian Parliament to support this amendment first and foremost. What he's looking for, just to ban women from pregnant women, women who are breast-feeding, women who have recently been born to work at night if they don't ask for it themselves, and if they don't approve of it. Namely, if you do not accept this amendment, then the Labour Act in this part will absolutely be in opposition to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which clearly says that the state protects in a special way what, motherhood, children, family. Motherhood, the Constitution protects motherhood. Only women can be mothers, only women can have babies, only women can breastfeed, only women should be protected. If they don't want to during that period when they're pregnant, while they're breast-feeding, and their children are very young, they don't work at night. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83925	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 47 of the Club of Representatives of HSU to Article 78
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83926	The government doesn't accept. The amendment is not acceptable because such an amendment would require appropriate amendments and other articles which have been arranged by the Institute of Annual Breaks and would have contradictory provisions in the text of the law governing those institutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83927	Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83928	The proposed amendment to Article 78 is identical to the existing article of the law which, in my opinion, was quite fine and was not any problem, I suppose, for employers, for trade unions, for workers themselves. Now we have an article of the law that produces the effect that if a worker retires in September that he will only get a share of the annual vacation, not the whole vacation he has had so far. Although there is a law and provision there that if the employer allows him an annual vacation in the first part of the year, that the whole vacation does not have the right to ask for money back because it will only belong to the proportional part. I think the existing solution is even better in the current law, and that is why I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83929	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 48. The Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists is identical and we have already declared ourselves. 49. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83930	The Government does not accept that an amendment to Article 78 cannot be accepted or the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83931	Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83932	The amendment is really technical, so I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83933	Amendment 49 has been withdrawn. Amendment of 50th Representative Goran Marić to Article 83
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83934	The government does not accept the proposal to submit a written request on how to use the annual vacation. We consider unnecessary administration, because the employer also determines the schedule for the use of annual holidays by respecting the wishes of workers without their special written request.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83935	Goran Marić, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83936	Well, I'm not surprised you didn't accept it, but the explanation doesn't suit you. You have no argument to explain. In the first part of Article 83, you protect workers by saying if a worker uses an annual vacation in parts then, during the calendar year, he must use the part that exercises the right to an annual vacation for at least two weeks uninterrupted. That's where you protect him. He needs to use it. And in the second part, you allow manipulation and dissuasion of that same worker, because if it is under the pressure of the employer then it cannot benefit but must be transferred to the next year. This amendment only adds to the desire for the protection of workers that this change of clauses could not be changed at the beginning of 83. ... can be changed to the initiative of workers, and this initiative can only be proved by written means and I see no reason why it is not in the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It should be in the law if you want to protect the worker. If he wants to disprove the worker, then let's leave it the way it is. I'm looking for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83937	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 51. Representatives of Croatian Labourers' Club on Article 94
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83938	The government does not accept the sequence of all permitted sources of law. It is clear that the increased salary is determined by an employment contract, collective contract or labour regulation in which we consider that supplement unnecessary from the aspect of the source of labour rights. However, it should be pointed out that this supplement would exclude the possibility of the above-mentioned increase being regulated by some other, special regulation such as for the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83939	Dragutin Lesar on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83940	Today in Croatia, the Association of Employers will be able to open champagne and will declare you the Honorary President of the HUP. Article 94 of the Law reads: "For difficult working conditions, overtime, and work on Sundays, holidays or some other day on which the law stipulates that a worker is not working is entitled to an increased salary." We suggested an addition to that provision. The amount of the increased salary referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be determined by a contract of work, collective contract or labour regulation. Otherwise, it is not true that collective agreements lay down those rights and labour rules because it is not prescribed anywhere and the provision of the Labour Act on so-called work has been abandoned. the mandatory content of collective agreements as it used to be. It's gone. And how the employer, up to 20 employees, will not write a percentage of the salary increase for overtime or weekly work in the event of a dispute, will demonstrate the justification of his request if there is no such increase in any document. And by working contract, and you refused to amend the employer does not have to describe it, but can simply call for a decision that does not have to be delivered in writing to the worker. Therefore, even that intervention to oblige employers to enter a percentage increase in the labour contract, to enter it into the Labour Regulation or collective contract, do not accept it as an institution for the protection of workers in the event of a claim for unpaid increase in salary. What's that hurt? What's the matter with you? I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83941	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 52. HSU representatives' club on Article 112
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83942	The government doesn't accept. The adoption of the amendments could lead to a reduction in the rights of particularly protected categories of workers for which the cancellation of the labour contract during the winding-up process is possible. Namely, the winding-up procedure is initiated with the aim of eradicating the employer from the relevant register during which all the obligations are met and all claims are charged, and workers, on the basis of their business terms and conditions, exercise the right to cancel and severance. If those categories of workers were to be prescribed that their labour contract ceases on the day of completion of the liquidation procedure, they would remain in a working relationship until then and as in the case of the death of the employer of the natural person by the termination of the craft by the law and erasure of the trader of the individual from the register, and thus would not exercise their rights because their contract would cease under the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83943	Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83944	Not because of reasons but because of the subparagraph I wrote in the amendment and overlooked one possibility for the worker to remain in a working relationship over 65 years if he and the employer agree so on by giving up this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83945	Amendment 52 has been withdrawn. Amendment 53. The Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, also on Article 112.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83946	The government doesn't accept. The explanation is as good as the last one.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83947	Zlatko Tušak, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83948	The minister here says there's been an expropriation of employers in the liquidation process. The erasure of employers comes only after the winding-up of the liquidation process and therefore we suggest that the labour contract can stop only after the winding-up process has been completed. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83949	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of 54th Representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83950	The government does not accept because of the excessive and excessive cancellation procedure as well as the long-term and evidence possibilities in court proceedings, it is not acceptable to keep the employer's obligation to educate or train workers to work on other jobs before cancelling for personal or business reasons because it is only an additional cost to that employer who, most often, because of financial and economic difficulties, cancels contracts to his workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83951	Goran Maric, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83952	Mr. Minister, if my amendment were an obvious grammatical mistake, you wouldn't accept it, let alone this. This amendment is addressed to Article 115, which speaks of the regular termination of the labour contract. That only a cancellation can be given if it is established that it cannot be employed elsewhere. And what's the problem? What does this cost to an employer if it is established that he cannot be hired on any other job? But to get fired from that employee who is undefinedly employed and has the opportunity to get a job at another job he gets fired and someone else will get a job at that place where it is possible. This alone gives some certainty in continuity, this is one proof of disorientation throughout society, let alone in this business world. It makes it impossible for employers to quit for the unemployed and for the thief, allowing him to manipulate good workers. Is that acceptable? But it's obvious to you. I'm looking for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83953	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 55. The Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourers on Article 115
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83954	The government doesn't accept. It is not acceptable for "small" employers to take into account and in particular explain the reasons relating to the duration of the working relationship of the age and the maintenance obligations imposed by workers because in the case of small employers and circumstances they cannot have any effect on the regular cancellation of the labour contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83955	Zlatko Tušak, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83956	It's working for those employers who employ less than 20 workers and who protect only the law. And when we talk about business terms and conditions, then we think that the provision which states that the employer is not obliged to take care of the duration of the employment relationship, the age of the workers or the compulsory maintenance that workers are charged with should be removed from the law and those employers who employ less than 20 workers because of social justice must take care of it because it is 320 thousand workers who protect only the Labour Act. And this won't have that protection either. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83957	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. The 56th representative of Jadranka Kosor is identical to the amendment 54th of which we have declared. Amendment 57. The Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourers on Article 121.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83958	The government does not accept the suspension of the period of cancellation due to any justified non-presence of workers at work such as temporary inability to work, vacation, paid leave and other cases of justified non-presence of workers in practice often occurred that the legal consequences of the cancellation or expiry of the notice of termination and check-out of due diligence occurred and after the passage of a very long period of time since the decision to cancel was made, which was also misused. This further had an additional negative impact on the complexity and length of the length of the necessary restructuring and adjustment of the employer to market conditions, which is why it is not acceptable to propose an amendment to Article 121 of the final proposal. In doing so, it should be noted that the temporary inability to work interrupts the expiry of the notice but is now prescribed for a maximum duration of 6 months for the termination of the working relationship from the date of delivery of the decision on the cancellation of workers in which the cancellation period has been suspended and has not run due to sick leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83959	Zlatko Tušak, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83960	The matter of cancellation is not running during the annual vacation, clearly we cannot agree on that, as the minister claims. But we are also opposed in this case when the actual inability to work and the worker is on sick leave to stop working after 6 months because that worker can be sick after 6 months and will not be able to look for a new job or continue to work. Because with these provisions these workers are put into a really unfavourable, unexplainable situation. That is why we believe that during the actual inability to work, the deadline cannot run. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83961	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the 58th Representative of Jadranka Kosor to Article 121.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83962	The government doesn't accept it, the argument is as good as the proposal no. 57.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83963	A colleague of Jadranka Kosor, on behalf of the motionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83964	There's no point in explaining it anymore, so I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83965	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. The amendment of the 59th Representative, Goran Marić, is identical to what we have said before. Amendment 60. The Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourers on Article 125
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83966	The government does not accept, given that the amendment to Article 125 is an interesting issue which has not been reached by the social partners' consensus, the Proposer has proposed a reasonable and appropriate amount of damage compensation which has now been most often found in disputes over the judicial breakup of the working relationship.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83967	Zlatko Tušak, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83968	We believe that in the event that the employer gave an illegal notice to the worker, that the judicial termination of such an employment contract to the worker is compensated for the damage from 3 to 8 salaries is inappropriate. And we think that the minimum should be 6 to 15 salaries, because this way employers will be stimulated just to give illegal layoffs to workers because they will not suffer any damage. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83969	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 61 of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourist on Article 135.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83970	The government doesn't accept. The proposed amendment is unnecessary to supplement Article 135 of the final draft of the law on the grounds that the judicial procedure is carried out in accordance with the Law on a litigation procedure, in which it is a very clear principle that the burden of evidence in the dispute is always on the side that proves positive facts. In this respect, the burden of evidence of the existence of facts will also be on the part of the employer in these disputes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83971	Dragutin Lesar, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83972	So it's a provision of a law that speaks of the burden of proof in the event of a dispute. And we have suggested that the burden of proof is not on the worker, but on the employer, if it is a dispute of proof that the contract is concluded or not, or instead issued by the employer in the dispute whether the employer has issued a right to pay, wages and severance. Even in these elementary things, the burden of proof does not want to be transferred to the employer, and the worker cannot prove whether or not he received the contract, whether the employer gave him confirmation instead of pay that he had not paid or not. How can a worker prove that? Two witnesses must be brought in to prove that he worked for a month, didn't get paid and his employer didn't give him any confirmation. But the worker has to prove it by the current provisions. And then contradiction, by rejecting our amendments, the minister is calling for a law that speaks of court action, but they have introduced three cases in the law where the burden of proof is on the employer and not on the worker. So if it is always considered to be a burden of proof to the employer, or to the person who presses charges, why is this exemption in article 135 prepared by the Government? The refusal of amendments actually hides the following behind it, making it difficult to prove that the contract is not concluded, that the worker has not received the certificate, that he has not received the salary and that there is no pay correction by transferring it to the worker's burden actually discourages workers to seek judicial protection. And in this way they hypocritically favor those employers who are currently in the Croatian state holding 55,000 workers without pay. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83973	Who's for an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 62 of the Legislative Committee to Article 147
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83974	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83975	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 63 of the Club of Representatives of HSU to Article 151
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83976	It shall be accepted in a modified form. In paragraph 1 of subparagraph 3 behind the decimal point, the words "worker termination, worker with disabled persons" shall be added. The amendment has been accepted in an amended form in such a way that the part relating to persons with disabilities has been accepted, while the part relating to the judicial compensation procedure is not acceptable for the reasons that the proceedings in disputes of this type have lasted too long, while the proposed arbitration procedure will now be much more economical and faster, and the workers will continue to be able to protect their rights in the judicial proceedings. Therefore, in the event that the arbitration decision replaces the consent of the worker, it will be possible to dispute the authorisation and legality of the denunciation granted on the basis of that consent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83977	Silvano Hrelja, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83978	It shall be accepted in a modified form.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83979	The amendment has been accepted in a modified form and becomes such an integral part of the law. Amendment 64 of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists also on Article 151.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83980	As regards Article 151(1), we accepted this in an amended form by the amendment of the Association of Representatives of the HSU, as regards paragraph 4 of the word "replace" to add the word "judicial". It's an explanation as well as for the HSU amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83981	Zlatko Tušak, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83982	Because we believe that all provisions of the Labour Act must allow access to court, and parties who are in dispute to choose whether to settle their dispute through arbitration or court. I ask that votes on the amendment be voted on if we feel that everyone should be allowed access to the court.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83983	Who's for that part of the amendment the government didn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No 65 of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers to Article 187.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83984	It's unacceptable. It is not acceptable because, in practice, cases have often started to emerge in the case of an employer who has only one member and who is then the union's commissioner for the protection of his own interests. In this context, it is necessary to set out the criteria for the number of members whose commissioner will achieve special protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83985	Zlatko Tušak, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83986	So I have to warn the minister of the provision of paragraph 2 of that article and I'll read it here, he says, "The unions that have at least 5 employees in a particular employer can appoint or choose one or more union commissioners." Well, they don't have the unions of five employees, they have employers, I guess, unions only have members. So please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83987	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 66 of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers to Article 188
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83988	The government doesn't accept. The amendment is not acceptable for the reasons that the proceedings in disputes of this kind have lasted too long as the proposed arbitration proceedings will now be much more economical and faster, and the union commissioner will continue to be able to protect his rights in the court proceedings, because in the case of... the decision will replace the consent of the union commissioner can dispute... and the legal dismissal which, on the basis of that consent, was received before the court in charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83989	Zlatko Tušak, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83990	In addition to the story that something will be faster, there is no other argument that you ministers are talking about because the issue of arbitration or litigation was just about to be introduced in Croatia, working disputes that should have been dealt with quickly by certain issues of workers and thus eradicating the possibility of the party joining the court, then being brought in a way that only disputes must be resolved by arbitration which is not good. We therefore believe that the party must have the option to choose whether to settle its dispute with arbitration or court dispute. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83991	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 67 of the Club of Representatives of the SDP to Article 192.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83992	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83993	It becomes an integral part of the law. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the Commission in
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83994	It's unacceptable. It is not acceptable to retain the current Institute for the Enlargement of Corporate Contracts for the reasons that such arrangement of the Institute in practice led to a situation where one employer was obliged to apply two or more collective agreements whose application was extended. In such a situation and with the application of the most favourable rights for workers, workers could choose from both collective agreements the right they assessed for themselves to be more favourable. It is therefore proposed to amend the criteria and the decision-making process on the extension of the collective contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83995	Silvano Hrelja, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83996	No matter what the Government has already responded to Article 203 by its amendment, it corrected the level for which the collective agreement and scope are being concluded, the choice of a more favourable right should not be a problem in the Labour Act, so I think that, by way of the current law, it is better than it is now proposed. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83997	Are you asking for a vote? Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 69 of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers, identical to that of the Croatian Labourers, have been declared. Amendment 70 Clubs of Representatives of Croatian Labourers to Article 205
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83998	The government doesn't accept. If the employer refuses to join the negotiations then an interesting collective dispute has already begun and it is quite clear that, in this situation, representative trade unions that can organise and conduct a strike for the purpose of making changes or revoking a collective agreement can act in this regard.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u83999	Dragutin Lesar, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84000	Minister, when you write the law, there's a lot of things you think, and then the judgments go the wrong way and there's problems. You have entered into the law that in the case of a dispute on the conclusion of amendments or renewal of a collective agreement, the conclusion of amendments and the renewal of the right to call for a strike are only those trade unions that have representativeness and which have negotiated, that is a cumulative condition, both conditions must satisfy and mean a cumulative condition. And it's... a collective contract, it wasn't before the negotiations, the union invites the employer to collective negotiations, he refuses to even answer that. If you do not accept this amendment and remain a cumulative condition, any strike organised by a union that has not participated in negotiations that have not been held, it will be prohibited to call for a strike to be organised because in Article 205, paragraph 2 states that both conditions must be met by the trade union. I believe that you thought one thing, your associates the other, but the problem is that the law that allows and now we warn you of different interpretations and problems in application, a good minister repairs it, avoids possible conflicts and different interpretations. I'll ask for a vote, I know the amendment won't be accepted and... Mr. Minister will have a bad labour law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84001	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 71 of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers to Article 213
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84002	The government does not accept that the Labour Exclusion Institute is the only measure the employer can respond to on strike, a reduction in the number of workers the employer could exclude from work is an interesting issue that has so far not been discussed with the social partners.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84003	Dragutin Lesar, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84004	So-called a locaut, an employer's response to a strike. It goes on strike by 1,000 workers, and the employer under this law 500 can be excluded from work. And now, Ministers, I ask you, we have proposed one-third, reasonable borders and measures, do you allow a lockout of 50% employees and a grant strike? When that strike may involve 50,000 people. You know what you're doing? The law allows you to dismiss, or exclude, half of them by working a locator because you forgot about different categories of strike, different causes and leads strike. You probably meant to strike your staff at the ministry, when you'd rebel at your place so you said half I'd rule you out if you'd accidentally strike. But there's, like, a solidarity strike, legally. You allow disfellowshipping from the work of half the employees,...the freedom to strike with the locout 50% employees. Well done.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84005	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 72 of the Club of Representatives of HSU to Article 225
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84006	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84007	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 73 Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers-Parties of the Work on Article 225.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84008	The proposal for an amendment is not acceptable because Article 225 already accepts the amendment in a different way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84009	Dragutin Lesar on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84010	The minister didn't explain why it wasn't acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84011	I said it's acceptable in a second sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84012	And you accepted those amendments that came after ours, right? That's what you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84013	So the HSU amendment was accepted in a different statement covering your amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84014	A coalition partner, that's what you mean. Great. My colleague Silvano, thank you for covering your incompetence and then helping the minister accept coalition amendments, not opposition ones. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84015	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 74 of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers on Article 225 I'm asking the MPs to come into the hall because we're about to vote, and we're going to allow them to explain the fellow amendments to these remaining ones we still have. Therefore, the Ministers of Amendment 74 of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers on Article 225.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84016	The government doesn't accept. The right to participate in the work of representative local and regional (regional) self-government is not achieved by workers but by democratically elected persons whose rights are governed by a special regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84017	Dragutin Lesar on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84018	Now I don't know if you're a member of the same government as your colleague Bauk or what happened. The Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourers recently offered the Parliament that the problem of workers in the employment relationship of people who are municipal, city council members and council members in the county parliaments would allow them to carry out their council work in a way that states in the law that the employer must enable him to do so. Workers who go to meetings during working hours, and workers work on the second shift not only in the first shift, do not tell me some call for a meeting at dinner, do not have any legal opportunity to call on anything to ask the employer to let him go to the meeting of the County Assembly. And if this one tells him you can't, you can't. It's the right of a elected councilman. Here, when you've established your annual vacation for the candidates, it's the right of workers. when the elected councilman who is a worker and is not a capitalist or unemployed or a pensioner has to attend a session in Croatia, there is no law on that right. So we proposed to supplement the Law on Local Self-Government and the Government said off the record it's not an area of the Law on Local Self-Government, suggest that this be introduced into the Labour Act. We now propose an amendment to enter into the Labour Act, now the Minister of Labour says it is not the area of the Labour Act but other regulations. Which for God's sake? - About the abortion? What regulation do we have to regulate that? How can you not observe the fact that we have serious problems in Croatia? The council members can't attend the session because the employer won't let them in, and besides, in your party, you've had these problems, and that's why you've been dropping the quorums and almost budgets. You do not want to allow a selected worker by law to call on the law when he asks to attend a session and you say that's not the right of a worker. Well, then wipe those vacations out. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84019	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 75 of the Legislative Committee to Article 228
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84020	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84021	It becomes an integral part of the law. 76 HSU Representatives Clubs on Article 232.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84022	The government doesn't accept. Currently, in the extended application of 4 branch collective agreements have been concluded indefinitely. Some of these contracts have undergone changes and additions that have not been extended since their expansion, so that, in the same branch, one employer now applies basic extended collective agreements, while other employers apply an amended or supplemented collective agreement, which may violate the principles of competition. While the fact that the criteria for extending collective agreements have changed is necessary to put aside the decision to extend all collective agreements, the more we consider the transitional period of 6 months to be appropriate for the conclusion of a new one with the Law on the work of a harmonised collective contract. And we've been communicating with the social partners, and I hope this will allow all collective and extended contracts to comply with the Labour Act that we're bringing today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84023	Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84024	I will believe that you have brought this into line with the social partners and that there will be no problem, although in principle I am against such a restriction on the validity of decisions to extend the application of the collective contract. This time we'll believe it. We'll withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84025	Amendment 76 has been withdrawn. Amendment 77 of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists also to Article 232.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84026	The government doesn't accept. The explanation is as for Amendment 76.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84027	Zlatko Tušak on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84028	Croatian Labourists do not accept the explanation of the Minister of Labour that collective agreements should regulate workers' rights and thus abolish collective agreements that cease to apply after 6 months which have the importance of extended application, we think it is inappropriate. It's against the social partnership, against collective agreements and against workers' rights, so I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84029	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. I Amendment 78 of the Legislative Committee to Article 234.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84030	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84031	It becomes an integral part of the law. We will now approach the vote on the final draft of the law. That takes 76 votes from the MPs. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Please, please, please leave the gallery in silence. [[Intruder: Song from the gallery.]] Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that with 80 votes in favour and 34 against the Law of Labour.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84032	And now, according to the agreement of the Clubs of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, we will conduct a united debate - Final Proposal for a Law on European Workers' Councils, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 604 - Final draft law on the participation of decision-makers in the European Society (SE) and the European Union (SCE), second reading, P.Z.E. No. 608; The Proposer of both laws is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted on the Law on European Workers' Councils of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. The same committees also held a debate on the second draft law. Does the applicant's representative want to give an introductory explanation? Yeah. Dear Minister of Labour and Pension System Miranda Mrsic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84033	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's a very short one. The laws were already discussed in the first reading. In the framework of the reform of labour legislation, one of our objectives was also the regulatory discharge of the Labour Act, the provisions governing the process of participation of workers in decision-making at a transnational level, i.e. through the European Workers' Council, and it is proposed to regulate the specified matter by a special regulation. The abovementioned laws of matter for the participation of workers in decision-making are simpler and more transparent than the applicable provisions, until no provision that would be of interest to nature has been amended. The comments following the first reading have been observed and the final draft law has been recently improved by a proposal from the Committee on Legislatives. These laws allow employers working in two or more Member States to be properly informed and consulted on issues of their material and social status. The Ministry of Labour and Pension System will keep records of established European working councils. I note that this law is a law for the future, probably in those times when Croatian companies have daughters in other European Union countries and other countries of the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84034	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Do the presidents of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament wish to present their reports on these draft laws? ... No need, I agree. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm opening a debate then. We're going to discuss the club representations. It is next to the Club of Independent Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, Honored Representatives Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin. ... It's not possible? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. They're losing the right to discuss this subject. A colleague of Vanja Posavac on behalf of the SDP club in the Croatian Parliament. Here's your esteemed co-worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84035	I would like to thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support the proposal of the Law on European Workers' Councils as well as the adoption of the Law on the Participation of Workers in Decision-making in European Society and the European Community. The aim of the establishment of European Workers' Councils is to improve the rights of workers to inform and consult that must be established among all employers who carry out their economic activity and fulfil the conditions laid down by law. Through the European Workers' Council, workers are entitled to participate in the decision-making process, in relation to their economic and social rights and interests. In order for the employer to establish a European Workers' Council, the employer who carries out economic activity at EU level and in Member States must meet the legal requirements laid down. The procedure for the establishment of the European Workers' Council shall be initiated at least 100 workers or representatives of employees in at least two employers or two branches in different Member States or in the initiative of the Central Administration. If no party initiates the Labour Council initiative, and in this case, the subsidiary rights will apply. The procedure for the establishment of the European Workers' Council may also be interrupted by a negotiating committee which may decide not to open negotiations or to end negotiations. With regard to the European Workers' Councils, this legislative proposal aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. And here is a very short one on decision-making in European society and the European community. Namely, European societies and European cooperatives are established under the EU's legislative framework, not under the provisions of national law of the Member States. European companies and European cooperatives shall not be legally established or registered unless an agreement has been concluded with workers on how they participate in the decision-making process. The procedures for the participation of workers in decision-making at transnational level shall be governed by the agreement of the parties, the central administration, the negotiating committee drawn up by the representatives of the workers. The parties shall have the freedom to negotiate and negotiate all details of the way workers participate in the decision-making, composition, function, way of action, procedures and financial resources of the body of the worker representatives. But it also enables workers’ rights to participate in decision making to adapt to their opportunities and needs. In fact, workers have the right to be informed and consulted on issues of transnational character. The participation of decision-makers shall be carried out only on issues which may have an effect on the economic and social rights and interests of workers in at least two Member States. This limits the work of the Workers' Council in a European company or other representative body of workers at transnational level from the part-round representative bodies of workers at national level. What has been a change in both the draft law since the first reading, which is that the Committee's initiative is precisely the Committee on Labour, Pension System and the Social Partnership has been amended in Article 9, which is that the way in which the representatives of workers from the Republic of Croatia have been elected has been changed to the negotiating committee in order to equalise the way in which the choice is made for the selection of representatives of workers in the negotiating committee on the participation of workers in the decision-making through the European Workers' Council, which is governed by the special law. It also complemented what was required in Article 39 of the proposed law to allow for the start of selection procedures for workers in individual bodies of the labour representatives to apply the provisions of the applicable Labour Act and that the mandate of the already elected workers' representatives should continue until its expiry. This law really transposes certain EU directives and will support the adoption of one and the other legislation because of everything I have put forward by the SDP club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84036	Thank you, too, dear colleague Vanja Posavac. Dear Representative Đuro Popiac on behalf of the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84037	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have talked about a regulation that regulates the labour market enough today, and indeed, the Labour Act is one of the fundamental legal provisions that regulates the labour market and regulates it. Since this proposal amended the provisions relating to inclusion in the European Workers' Council and related to integration into European society, it was also necessary to make such specific laws that would continue to regulate this area. Both Minister and colleague Posavac himself has said more or less everything about the basic provisions on why it is done. Of course, we are already part of a unique, more or less legal system, part of the European Union, part of a single market, part of a legal system that regulates the labour market, of course, and especially what concerns the business of companies. But it may be interesting in view of this second concept of European society and European cooperative. So this is a specific form of the type of legal origin, i.e. created where it tried to make a trance or a super national company in 1959. It is exclusively based on share capital. And what's interesting is the lowest amount of core capital for this kind of society is 120,000 euros. And apparently, this form of society is, indeed, the formation and organisation of society mainly intended for the largest societies and related societies. It is also interesting that the way these European societies are formed is governed by a statute or regulation that has only 70 articles. And some, of course, further legal forms, are regulated at national level, and then this law on the inclusion of workers is one of these basic preconditions, and if this form of European society happened in Croatia that this legal form is satisfied and that it is known that workers will be involved at that level as planned. In view of the technical characteristics of these two laws, which more or less transpose EU directives in this area, we will support these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84038	Thank you, Your Honor. It is the turn of the Croatian Pension Party club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84039	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the Croatian party of pensioners will support the adoption of these two laws. I must say that I am both personally satisfied and the chairman of the Committee that certain remarks by the Committee on Works, the pension system and the social partnership are respected in terms of unifying the criteria for choice in the negotiating committee and in one law and in another. We have relatively little experience with the European Workers' Council, I personally know some people who had experience in this before they joined the EU, were very impressed when they were invited to Germany for various educations and so little explained to them the company's strategy, etc. But of course it's a good experience, now it's a little different since we're a full member of the Emalo U we'll be able to say something and not just go on any tourist trip. I think that these laws are relatively small within the meaning that they will refer to a small number of people and a small number of companies at this point, which does not mean that tomorrow, by entering and entering the countries of the region into the EU and these processes are ongoing, we do not know whether they will be in 5 or 10 years' time, these laws can have a wider application, because at least if we are smart in that part, we should become the leaders of the region whether it is European societies or European society. Therefore, these laws are certainly for the future, if the future goes in the direction we predict, of course many factors influence it and in any case they are correctly made, they have gone through two readings and there is really no reason not to adopt these laws unanimously in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84040	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic on behalf of the HDSSB club in the Croatian Parliament. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84041	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal of the Law on European Workers' Councils and the final proposal of the Law on the Participation of Workers in Decisionmaking in European Society (SE), although I do not understand it, shall immediately say at the outset why the Spanish term Åas europea is used when we also have the usual English expression in these translations and then the European Co-operation Co-operation Co-operation europea SCE. Now let's maybe learn some Romance languages and adopt that as one of our options. So let's go first, given that the debate is united, the final proposal of the Law on European Workers' Councils. Here today, there was a need for cooperation between work and capital. Reading these articles of this law, the legislative proposal seems to me that this cooperation of labour and capital has just been achieved in the articles of this law. It is said, when we talk about capital, about the central administration or representatives of the central administration, and then about the negotiating committee and, therefore, made up of the European Workers' Council. And then they are very short, simple, clear and concrete in very very to say the short text and relatively few articles quite clearly, here are 37 articles, all that is necessary for the work of the European Workers' Council or the Working Councils which are currently in the Republic of Croatia, given what someone said, on the transnational character of these councils, so at least two states, at least 1000 workers of that 150 in one of the countries, let's say in Croatia and the rest of at least 850 in another, so it will not be in large numbers at the moment. However, here is the view of possible enlargements that will follow, and we need to be clear that before 2020, no new EU enlargements have been decided by the European Parliament. So, some hopes and pressures, the wishes of some here to do so, I will not speak to who and with which neighbours, have no chance because the European Parliament has decided that there is no enlargement until 2020, so it is clear to all of us. Well, maybe it's only then that this law is applicable to something greater, so this is a law for the future. Also on cooperatives and on the participation of decision-making workers in European society as europea says here or Europe's Co-operation where it is also in a relatively small number of articles, 40 prescribed everything necessary for decision-making and work, and this work applies above all, says this, to consultation, to communication, to two main elements, mainly to the working councils and to the negotiating committees. Here, that, there would be no reason why the HDSSB club would also not be in favour of voting for these laws European because they are really, if we had such clear, concise, simple, short and correct written and our laws, there would also be no problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84042	Thank you, Your Honor. We've exhausted a list of registered clubs for debates on this subject. The minister will also not give the closing statement because he will have the opportunity to vote the law, there are some amendments. We'll vote on that when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84043	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law on European Workers' Councils, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 604; The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that with 111 votes for and 3 against Law P.Z.E. No. 604.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84056	We will move to - Final proposal of the Law on the Representativeship of Employers and Trade Unions, second reading, P.Z. No. 601 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws, Articles 194 to 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on this bill was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour and Pensions, the Social Partnership. You received a report from these working bodies of the Croatian Parliament. Does the Government's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Labour and Pension System Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84057	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What we emphasized when we passed the Law on criteria for participation in... bodies representative of collective bargaining in 2012 that in the year... the law will closely monitor its effects and that is what we have foreseen and with this Law on Work that we have discussed today and with the Law on Protection of Work, so we want to follow all the laws in practice and see which effects are themselves, the law itself is happening. The main purpose of this Law on Representativeship was to encourage the union to cooperate, strengthen the capacity of social partners and encourage collective bargaining. I note that this law has been trying to pass for ten years and that it is a law that defines collective bargaining on behalf of trade unions and employers, and it would be logical to pass the law in negotiations between the two social partners, however, in 10 years negotiations have failed to pass the law. We succeeded in adopting this law after the intense negotiations in 2012 and today you have seen the final draft law which has also experienced certain changes, improvements, with agreements with the social partners and most of the items, most of the solutions in this law have been reached in agreement. It is clear that some solutions in this law that are before you are not agreed, mainly because there was no agreement between the social partners, but also within the social partners themselves, especially when we talk about this rate of representativeness, so how many members of the union needed the union to have representativeness, so when we were bringing in 2012, then the two centres were 10%, the two centres by 20%, and now that ratio fell to 3, 10%, one by 20%. But in law enforcement, we saw that this 20% rate did not lead to any problems. In fact, the law has received the expected results compared to the... union association, higher levels. After the entry into force of the law, two union centres joined together, and according to the latest estrangement procedure of 4 instead of the previous 5. On the other hand, the law encouraged trade unions to co-operate in the collective bargaining process, which confirms the fact that trade unions in large majority of cases agree on the number and composition of the trade union's negotiating committee, and to a lesser extent use procedures to identify representativeness through a commission to determine representativeness, which also says that this 20% rate is not an obstacle to the very effective formation of the negotiating committees. Speaking in percentages, in over 90% of the cases, the unions sat together and agreed on a negotiating committee no matter how many members they had. Based on the current Law on Representativeness... representative trade unions which... before the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, 302 trade unions are registered which are the only ones in the area to be negotiated. 98 union agreements involving a total of 291 unions have been concluded, and so far there have been 50 procedures to determine representativeness. In view of the fact that the current application of the law has shown that certain provisions of the law should have been developed in order to clarify the application of certain provisions and to fill the correct gaps in cooperation with the social partners, the Ministry of Labour and the pension system has approached the creation of a new text of the law in order to make the law better and simpler in application, and to address all the concerns that existed in the application of the existing law. The final draft law has been amended in accordance with the proposals and observations of parliamentary representatives and the mass of committee members and the proposals and observations made by the members of the Committee for the Identification of Representatives and also in cooperation with the social partners. In a clear and precise manner, a period of representativeness has been established to avoid doubts about the signatories of an amended and updated collective agreement, in particular in a situation where individual representative trade unions are not the signatories of both collective agreements, which is often the case in public services. In view of the fact that experience gained so far in the implementation of the process of determining representativeness has highlighted the problem of differentiating the level at which a collective contract is concluded from the level required for the determination of representativeness, it is clear that the representativeness of the union for collective negotiations can only be established at the level of one employer or employers' association. Taking into account the specificities of the negotiations in public services, the comments of the Commission on the determination of representativeness related to the way and criteria for determining the composition and number of the Union's negotiating committees for negotiations on the conclusion of a basic collective agreement for public services have been accepted. It also removed certain doubts that existed in relation to the implementation of the procedures for determining representativeness in practice. The arrangement of who can be a party to a collective contract and thus the right to strike is horizontally in line with the new Labour Act. It should be pointed out on this occasion that, in the process of harmonising the text of the final bill, social partners also had certain proposals that were of an interesting nature. I mentioned this relationship of census to acquire representativeness. On the other hand, the question was to allow individual trade unions a more favourable position to negotiate professional bargaining, the position of social partners and trade unions and employers was that professional collective agreements in Croatia were not concluded but that collective bargaining should be linked to basic collective, border collective agreements and collective agreements at the employer level. Since the government believes it is necessary to make efforts to strengthen the capacity of social partners for social dialogue both at national and regional level, we are convinced that this law is a real step in this direction and that this law, which has already been in force since 2012, as I have stated, has obtained its results, and the main results are rounding up the union scene and increasing the number of collective agreements. We are not satisfied with the number of collective agreements in the real sector, and we all need to work together to make as many collective agreements in that part of our economy and our society. Only with a quality social dialogue which is the basis of stable industrial relations can we expect to establish a favourable business environment which is a presumption of sustainable and stronger economic progress by the Republic of Croatia, which is a better and more material and social situation for workers in Croatia. This law has resolved some things, made them possible, and it is up to all of us to make collective bargaining and social dialogue something that is common, not exception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84058	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament wish to present reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate by representatives' clubs in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the Club of Representatives of the Independent List and Honored Representatives Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin. They're still missing. The HSU Club and the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84059	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, today I will certainly not be nearly as critical as I was in 2012 when we had a debate here on the proposal for a law on the representativeness of employers' associations and trade unions, although I will never agree that we must work according to the method of trying and making mistakes or methods of our own skin. I think we should consider developing a social dialogue or a relationship on the labour market. But I won't be too smart, but I will commend the progress made by this bill on the representativeness of employers and trade unions, so a lot of mistakes have been seen that have been corrected. Of course this law is the basis and tomorrow for the distribution of union property. It's something that's been waiting in this country for 24 years, it's been said for a long time, and I think it should finally come to an end. What is important to say here is likely to give some colleagues and colleagues amendments related precisely to the percentage mentioned by the minister because a lower level of representativeness is proposed for participation in collective bargaining with the drop-down level from 20 to 10. This would probably not be a problem if there were no real danger of Croatia then, if the border was brought down, professional collective bargaining was introduced, and Croatia did not opt for such a way of negotiating. In my opinion, it is quite right because it is rare where in the world and does not contribute to solidarity both in union organisation and in action and solidarity among employees and among professions. It's nice to just watch your job, but that job never depends on us. And the doctor needs nurses and lab girls and staff who care about hygiene and cleanliness, so it's not just a one-way street and think about itself. There is a way in which a particular medical union can safely be involved in collective bargaining. And I don't think there's any question about the quality of the profession in collective bargaining itself. So I think that the amendment that was given here, of course, I guess the government won't accept it. And I didn't notice on the board yesterday that much, let's say, such a strong request from the union centre representatives, were relatively neutral compared to that request. So, of course, I allow each of the representatives to think differently and have a different view of representativeness. What I think, I think, is the bill, of course it can always be better, and it will always be the experience that we will learn in some future time, that is, to ask us to change. I think the law is good. Although let's say in one part I don't agree that the state needs to strengthen the capacity of social partners. They must invest in themselves, they are both non-governmental NGOs or civil society associations on the basis of funding themselves, they are the only civil society associations, real associations that are not being hunted for budgets or countries, cities, municipalities, and counties but self-financing are. Of course, the money they turn on them is a good basis to advance and strengthen their capacities. So they are also invited to join together and to be stronger and to influence more in the world of work. It's nice for the state to worry that they're strengthening their capacities but I think in the long run they have to step up their own let's say, their potential and their negotiating capacity. Croatia's pensioner party appreciates that this bill is a step forward and will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84060	Despite all this, one replica respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84061	Thank you very much. Mr. Hrelja, I don't want to discuss with you in terms of retirement rights, etc., but what you said about the work of nurses and doctors, we're talking about the medical union and the entire border union, that's true. However, the fact that interests are in any case the same is not true. Here's an example of the best. Sir, former Minister Ostojic therefore carried out a shift work that clearly suits nurses in hospitals and works shifts, 12, 24 and 12, 48, and this same attempt when applied to doctors completely failed and impossible. Therefore, do not say that if they work together, if there is a patient’s interest in his health in the interests of trade union rights and other rights, it is not true. And it is absolutely certain that this Law puts us in an unfavourable position, completely unfavourable position for doctors, and we will go not 4 hundred doctors, but 4 thousand Croatian doctors for this sort of thing. That's one thing and the rest are wages and other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84062	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84063	I wasn't talking about equality of interest, but I advocate that through solidarity of the whole activity everyone needs to realise their interests. And if there is no solidarity in the profession where it is necessary to be, or in the activity where it is very important because it is about people's lives, then I don't know where more will be, where more solidarity is needed. Because, of course, everyone is just human, everyone has the right to make a mistake, and no one can, therefore, build their position at the expense of someone else's. So, I'm not advocating something that's not natural in the world, there are very few professional negotiations. And it is an assessment of the whole world of union organisation that simply this collective bargaining destroys systems and here it takes a good, quality and functional system in which all participants are satisfied with their positions and have satisfied interests to the extent possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84064	Thank you very much. We're continuing the club debate. The Social Democratic Party of Croatia club is next and Croatia's respected representative, Hrvoje Nekic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84065	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Since it's too late, I'll really try to be brief, say a few general words and maybe a few words about this point, points of dispute around this percentage in determining representativeness. So far, law enforcement has shown that the law has positive effects on union co-operation since in a large number of cases it is based on the agreement of all trade unions. The process for identifying representativeness has been accelerated and simplified and all amendments and proposals resulting from the law are based on previous experience and practice of law enforcement. The law will result in strengthening and rounding the unions, which is an important prerequisite for quality social dialogue. The relevant law on criteria for participation in tripartite bodies and the representativeness for collective bargaining was adopted on 18 July 2012 after a series of meetings and consultations with the social partners because activities concerning the drafting of this law began in 2008. The law applies a little less than two years which allows for a limited analysis of its effects. Although the applicable law has partially achieved the expected effects, it has identified certain problems and doubts or shortcomings that require the replacement of certain institutes, clarify or supplement them, and in particular fully comply with the rules which are also in the adoption process, in particular the general labour regulation. Since that amendment required significant nomotechnical interventions in the text of the law, it was necessary to adopt a new law in order to facilitate the application and effective supervision. Due to the horizontal alignment with the general labour regulation, this law regulates collective contract parties' institutions in a different way and has an impact on the strike institute as well as on the general labour regulation and particularly regulates the area of negotiation and conclusion of collective agreements in state and public services. In the light of the good results of the procedures carried out to determine the representativeness and experience of the current law in the new law, all those proposals on the arrangement of individual institutes that will contribute to a better application of the law have been introduced. I would also like to say the basic thought of adopting this law, the minister has already mentioned, so it is encouraging the union to cooperate, to strengthen the capacity of the social partners and, of course, to encourage collective bargaining. So far, it has been shown in practice that the law has won the expected results in relation to the circulation of multi-level union associations. Now, what's really encouraging is the coalition. As far as this solution is concerned about the percentage of representativeness from 20% is just a solution to the descent from 20 to 10%, or from 10 to 5%, it's just maybe some numerical solution that might certainly solve their problems for some, but it would create problems in some. The situation itself might create a new structure of dissatisfaction because those who may now have 9% would also want them to become representative. So the serious social thinking of our unions would be the work on coalitions, agreements and consensus on the side of the union, which would certainly contribute to a better solution to their problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84066	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is up to the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84067	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored ministers with associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. It's been a while, and we still have one point, so I'm gonna try to be brief right at the beginning. This bill is a significant improvement compared to the existing situation and is only a little short on being great. Minister, he's 10% short, nothing more. And if we solve that 10%, we'll support this bill. (Laughter) Imagine how far we've come. I've got more grudges. In fact, there was also a large number of reductions in entrepreneurs and employers, and therefore it seemed more appropriate for me to say in Article 2 to be instead of 3000, 1000 joint employers and instead of 5 employers' associations to be 3, but that is not such a problem. [[Adversity President: It is a rigorous colleague Maric.]] I will concentrate only on what seems very visible to me in this amendment to the law, that once I would never want to highlight any activity, any occupation, any profession and any calling, it does not occur to me to point out my profession, but one deserves to be highlighted because of social importance, because of the particular place that this profession has, which is the medical calling and medical profession. And I think that this law, and already in the collective agreement, has reduced medical rights, and this law actually makes it impossible for them to participate in the negotiations and will not be able to make a representative part. Why doctors are so important and so different, you don't have to waste words. They do extremely responsible work and regardless of what is in each segment and in all parts and unprofessional and irresponsible, yet great responsibility lies on doctors, and there are also calls that are not prone to union organisation by themselves. For other purposes, for example, only rare are doctors, from economists, university professors, perhaps every thousand, but more often are university professors and doctors in their profession. It concerns the health situation especially in Croatia, but also the status of a doctor. I was startled by the fact that university professor Barisic decided to leave Croatia, a respected university professor. I don't know if such a scientist and an expert can be replaced in 20 years. I don't know if there's anything to make up for. How much time it takes for Croatia to pay for what man invested in and what society invested in it for so long. A hundred doctors left Croatia in a year, and 4,000 doctors need a health system, and 600 doctors have prepared documentation to go abroad. No need to be, there is no colleague nadice depressed to know that this is a depressing data, worrying about information that society can't shut up about. When we heard that there was no practice in EU countries of collective agreement. So 15 years ago, Slovenia introduced a professional collective contract for doctors, and it did not create new problems, nor did the panda's box open, nor did it offer other professional associations to go the same way. You really need to understand the specific work that doctors have. It is not good, and it cannot be good that the interests and rights of doctors are decided by those who do not share with them neither the profession nor the responsibility, nor the expertise, nor the knowledge, which happens in practice, and this will happen even more with the application of this law. Doctors are determined by those who have sued the Republic of Croatia and thus led to the termination of a collective contract which was then reduced and abolished by changing medical rights. They also introduced shift work so they don't ask doctors at all. Someone else has decided on the change of work as to how much the change of work has caused, probably not in public will ever come more accurate information than it was spoken in public. How many problems in the health care system are more than spoken and spoken. How many problems in the health care system are more than spoken and spoken. Minister, here I am asking you to amend this article 8 and place 10% on you instead of 20, as it applies to you. And you're a doctor and you're a university professor and this goes in favor of you, of your profession, of your profession, of your calling, of your calling. And if you do that, the HDZ club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84068	Sentimental approaches to ministers are not allowed. Please, nice! Okay, but for the record. This is about the general interest, not the minister's interest. On behalf of the Croatian party party Slavonia and Baranja, right? E Glavas, if that's what you call it. [[Invadica Grubišić: Glavasev.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84069	That's what the Glavas Party calls us. I'm not ashamed of it, and here's the badge I wear permanently as a sign of respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84070	I was thinking, don't let me tell you who I thought you were wearing. Anyone can have a hero of their own.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84071	And for Cash, too. Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you're the minister today. In a year and a half or so, you may not be a minister, but you will always be a doctor, a respected doctor, with respect, a professor at the university. And this law of yours you'll pass on Friday, too, will I say hang. Are you willing to admit that all those in the border contract, pardon in the border union are as important in their profession as you, as I, as any doctor here or anywhere in the hospital, to have the same risk of business and work as you, as I, to operate people, to perform hundreds of operations a year, to be responsible for these people far more than any nurse and anyone else. If he had the same knowledge as you, he couldn't. You can't say that's the way it is. Therefore, you can leave this at 20%, but as Slovenia has found a way to conclude a professional contract with doctors who are to say PV that this is marked for mining wealth in Croatia as Maric said here also PV of this country and this society starting with the Homeland War. We know everything that happened, we know about war hospitals, we know about saved lives and many saved and extremes and everything that happened back then, so let's think about it a little bit. Let's not be administrators. It'll be 20% and an almost collective contract for border unions. Who does not have 20% can not be representative of the talks and negotiations and the conclusion of collective agreements with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Are we so hard and so hard to say bureaucratic I don't know. I wouldn't be, because today you are not. Today is the minister. Tomorrow you won't be a minister. You'll be a doctor on Rebr as well. And in the end, let me say when it comes to the fact that all doctors are unanimous, so there's no exception. We also have a letter here, which was signed by representatives of the Croatian Medical Chamber, the Croatian Medical Assembly, the Croatian Medical Union, the coordination of Croatian Family Medicine and the Croatian Association of Hospital Doctors HUBOL, the so-called new organization with the signatures of all these representatives who are not very often and in the best relations between us when we talk about certain such things amongst us doctors, but this time they were all solid and signed together by representatives of the Croatian Assembly in which they say the proposal of the Law on Representatives excludes doctors as holders of the health system from social dialogue and collective bargaining. They therefore suggest that, as a condition of representativeness, if it can not be otherwise determined by the trade union 10% instead of the proposed one, or to determine some other way for doctors to have the right to collectively negotiate with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Or are you afraid of doctors as a profession, as a group? ... I'm afraid of the injection, too. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, what's the problem? What's the problem? Is fear of the compactity of this group, of the common interests that are being led? Well, they're not doctors to say they're looking for some kind of exception in that collective contract. We know what happened to those who said they expressed dissatisfaction with the shift work, Professor. The patrols know well what happened on Dubrava, KB Dubrava. The first and best transplanter to say to the Republic of Croatia, the strongest player. Because he came to the Flower Square for a manifestation of the dissatisfaction of the doctor, that's why. And for the camera to record it. The shift work and Mr Ostojić, your fellow minister, also a doctor, so it is quite clear that some branches, and mainly operational or operations, are not possible to work in shift work. The nurses can, and it suits them. I said work 24-12-48 ma ideal! Two days off, you come back later to work the day, so you're free day and night, dear mother. You still pay for the night's work, especially. That's great. But the doctor can't see the patient he's been operating on for two days so he doesn't see him, so he doesn't take the drain out, so he doesn't bandage it. It can't be done like that. It's been done since Austro-Hungarian. Unfortunately, the new judges at Banja Luka say some of our neighborhood, and they came and suddenly introduced shift work to doctors. Could doctors have collectively negotiated this? No, they're not. Because it suits the ladies who represented the border unions. How could they within that border union fight doctors for their rights. Not because these are most of them. So, we go after the team to narrow down or throw out the full possibility of a doctor as a collective bargaining group with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'll never agree to that, ever. And neither should you, Mr. Minister, but most of all we should propose a law like this. According to Maric, 100 doctors have left, I have information that more have gone and that 600 are in preparation with the documentation to leave Croatia. Who are we bringing here for them? Yes, those who find it difficult to understand Croatian. It's also the intensity of this government. I don't understand this situation differently, I can't imagine that it's done but so it is. Let's change that, change the whole of Croatia, bring everything on the side, and let the Croats go after the bread in the white world as '65. years of temporary reform. To temporary work forever. Is that the goal of this government? Is that how doctors go? You've destroyed the whole middle class where doctors are included. They were never in this country, nor would they be in the upper class, nor would they be. But they were destroyed. That middle class was destroyed, not only financially, not only materially, but in every other way. Look at the pay! In addition, you have banned receiving and new employment in hospitals. 3500 nurses are waiting at employment offices, employment services, and the needs are over 10,000. What are we waiting for with them? No money or what? Yeah, I know he doesn't. We're waiting for them to go to the senior center of... Manheim, Hamburg, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we wait for young people of fertilized age to leave Croatia forever. This is the goal, the destruction of Croatia, in fact, in a perfidious way. But it's easy to see through and see what's done. So you write here 20%, and I'll vote against the HDSSB, and you gentlemen from the Kukuriku coalition vote for it. You won't be long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84072	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84073	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Grubisic, I fully agree with your debate and I understand why because you too are the profession, I do not understand, of course, our distinguished Mr. Minister, who was esteemed in his profession while doing his profession, as well as the former minister. I don't understand that he can allow himself to be humiliated by a medical profession. I'll only tell you one example, I won't name names, but you'll probably know that, the top neurosurgeon who will surely very soon retire behind him wanted to leave three of his specialists who trained for top-notch neurosurgery and when this campaign, the antimedical campaign began, when the humiliation began, the shift work, the overtime, and I don't know how many 35 kunas, he says that this young man will stay when the cleaning woman who cleans up, and while respecting her efforts, cleans his department has paid, has an hour of 40 kunas and of course the three young specialists are leaving. We were lucky, until now, really in Croatia we were lucky to have been treated and we had the opportunity to go to top doctors, world-renowned doctors, with specialists who train such world-class doctors so that today this profession would be reduced to one level, so I would say below every criticism. I watched this new show, this new association of hospital doctors, and 91 of them are gone by now. Yeah, thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84074	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84075	Comrade Sumrak, I didn't understand your replica until the end, but I have to say that I also have a son in the profession and when he came to work, when he finished his internship, the traineeship and after a year he passed the state exam he started working at a hospital where my sister, a nurse, also had a higher salary than he did. And ask the nurses if they're willing to be a separate union and they're fighting for their rights, they'll say no, they mostly have to say no to bad opinions or they're indifferent to medical problems, they're indifferent, they're not at all, they're neutral, you're fighting for yourself, and we're going to fight for ourselves. So no one can fight better for the rights of a doctor than the doctors themselves. Therefore, either the medical union or the Croatian Medical Assembly and the Chamber, they are unique, here shows the unity of the doctor and have the right to be unique. Despite the fact that I have said that there are sometimes thorns among officials of these associations, chambers, choirs, etc. but they signed together a memo from the Ministry and all representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I don't understand, and I will never understand this misunderstanding by the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it will never be clear to me, and there is a threat, there is a possibility that we can stay soon, so what will be the waiting lists if of 600 doctors abroad, then what will be the waiting lists?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84076	Maria Lugaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84077	You, in your debate, were colleagues Grubisic, talking about many things, most of them had nothing to do with the law. You also spoke trade unionally of what you are entitled to from the position of your profession, but somehow I expect from representatives in the Croatian Parliament, especially when speaking on behalf of the club, to actually speak fully and to talk about the system. We actually have two in this part, so I'm going to say almost opposing concepts. One is the one you stand for, it seems to me that my colleague Maric said, that in the same story, which is that in fact, this collective bargaining process is tiny. I'm going to talk about public services here now, because it's basically more or less everyone's talking about. The opposite tendency, then that's what I stand for, on that line is not this law but somewhere in between, is that in fact two levels of negotiation are actually being done at all. We now have a basic collective agreement, I speak for public services and the state and city collective agreements. They also appear in the request for professional levels as a third level. I think that sedation has brought us a lot of problems and that the solution would be to bring it back up. I'd like to, I'd be happier if we had led the debate in this way on the system and on the concept, not on certain union requirements. Because for us and for that, I am now going to say an ugly word that is not suitable for fine-tuning, it's not petty, it's legitimate demands of individual professions, and it's led us to a problem that we now have to solve between ourselves and these laws. I hope you understand, because it was really well-intentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84078	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84079	Thank you very much. Comrade Lugarić, I think you are at the very bottom of your soul honest and well-intentioned because I see what is really in your replica. You're saying it should simply change the system, so it doesn't decide that 10%, 15%, 20%. If doctors are doctors if they have their own union, regardless of the number, the number or participation in the border union with them should be discussed, and negotiated, negotiated. That is the point, whether it will be 10%, 15%, however irrelevant, let the Croatian Medical Union have the right to talks and arrangements regardless of the border union. How to determine the rates, I don't care about quotas, I don't care about doctors. But just know that the basic salary is prescribed in Germany, a minimum wage of 1500 euros a few days ago, 1500 euros is a minimum wage. Do you know how much the Croatian doctor gets when he finishes his internship and passes the state exam and comes to the department to work, 7000 kuna, or 1000 euros. The cleaning lady in Germany has 1,500.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84080	Comrade Maric, you called late. ... Here you go, replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84081	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic, when I was in college 36 years ago, asked many what you were going to sign up for? I said I don't know yet, but whatever I'm writing down, I'll be done in no time, but only one time I won't, I'm sure I won't go to medical school. I didn't have the courage, I admit it, I didn't have the courage to do it because it would take responsibility for someone's life. That is why I highly appreciate and respect those who have had it and who have built and invested so much in themselves and society during their careers. The surgeons save lives, their hands are worth a fortune, and now these people give up or throw them aside. I'll never agree to that. What you said about the Croats moving, sometimes they had to move for political and economic reasons, and now for these bizarre reasons. And sometimes they shouldn't have returned to Croatia for political reasons, and now they can't return for economic reasons because there is a tax on their assets out there waiting for them right now. Such a policy doesn't simply understand. But with this law and this kind of representation, it also makes it impossible to strike a doctor, that's the most important thing. Although the doctor's strike is on hold, he hasn't stopped, but this will then end the right to the strike. Personally, I don't like strikes, but what's the situation and how they're treated, they really have a reason to strike. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84082	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84083	Thank you very much, colleague Maric. Namely, the doctor's strike is actually, regardless of our white corners, etc., suits, white strike. Still, doctors worked during the strike, whether he was at rest or fully active. It wasn't a job, no, it wasn't, even though the strike was declared. Furthermore, in 1971, when I was enrolled in the Medical Faculty that I wanted to study, I also went to the economy, so I also passed into the economy, but I chose medicine not to know what it was, but people get used to it, you get used to medical work, just so they wouldn't get used to such injustices as this government and this state does to doctors. They would make it clear with this provision, why she came, simply as it ended with a medical strike and never let doctors have more rights to strike, ever. It's over, forever. But if we were to conduct a real strike, as in Italy, as we do in other countries, we would be rid of the status of a doctor a long time ago if we were just to receive emergencies, and there was everything else and all that drive was cold when it was standing, it would be completely resolved, but we are still emotionally connected to our patients, and we are still working on strike, so we all know, you know, and I know, we all know. Unfortunately, if we were like that, let's say, like when they did one, I have to bring our sailor to New York because he's got appendicitis, he couldn't operate, he had to lay down $5,000, so the crew was collecting money to pay for it. Well, we'd have him in right away, he'd have money or no money, and you'd have to treat a man's appendix. Who's gonna pay? Well, we'll see about that later. That's how it's done in our medicine, so sacrificial in our medicine. I have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84084	I didn't realize what that had to do with union representativeness and appendicitis surgery. Minister Miranda Mrsic's closing statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84085	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I am a doctor by profession, but I will never, therefore, put my standing interests above the general interests and about that, and it will never get from me as a minister. My personal interest and my standing interest will never and will never be above the general interest. When we talk about professional bargaining, then remember the time when the Minister of Health or Health Andrija Hebrang signed a professional collective agreement with doctors and the government called him off at the same time. One reason is that social partners, therefore employers and trade unions, both in this case and then in the economic social council that is responsible for social dialogue and collective bargaining, cares about the view that professional and collective agreements in Croatia cannot be above border collective agreements, above basic collective agreements or above contracts that are linked to employers. When we talk about professional collective agreements, what is the difference between a medical professional collective contract, a pilot, a driver and any other profession that has the power of strike? Not at all. So by this law, we do not defend any of these professions. Whoever informed you, informed you wrongly. So we don't want this law to solve personal problems between two union leaders and two union leaders. These changes you're proposing would help me solve their personal... and problems with this law. It is possible that when trade unions enter into negotiations with employers to conclude an agreement on the negotiating committee, and this law has been passed as I have told you at the opening presentation, this law has also made it possible and it is a large number of cases. On the other hand, what we were talking about when we talk about doctor's salaries, when we talk about shift work, it's not about collective bargaining, it's about organisation of systems, professions and everything else. I note that a collective contract which, for formal reasons, was torn down had good rights for doctors, and then, in the negotiation of another collective contract, that part of the right was not realised, probably because of the problems itself in the conduct of collective bargaining. It is clear to every employer, including the government, that these groups that have the force of strike, so those that can lead to a... system to make social peace with them. It is clearly in the interest of every employer and therefore does not need a law to legalise a union scene. I note that union centres are not unique about this issue and that there is no agreement. I am going back to the near past when HDZ was in power and when the economic social council was clearly determined that there is no professional negotiation in the Republic of Croatia. There is borderline and specific interests related to the individual profession can also be achieved through the border. I note, I'm a doctor and I've always worked on the team, clearly that the doctor is the team's chief, but there are nurses and instruments and anesthesiological technicians on the team, and without them, doctors wouldn't be able to do anything to me. So, regardless of our knowledge, the ability without that part of the medical staff, we couldn't do anything, and that's why we're a team, and that's why the medical profession in which the team solves the problems. And that's why these negotiations and negotiations need to start with the team, so every profession involved in this has its part of the specificity and that through the border collective agreements this specificity of norms is being made. I believe that in negotiations for a new border collective agreement that is currently under way, all these specificities that are related to individual professions will be recognised and resolved to mutual satisfaction. This law does not prevent anyone from strike, always any profession, every union can strike for its endangered rights, reduced wages, everything that is in the collective contract, and that law does not prevent it. Also, the law does not prevent you from joining collective bargaining because the negotiating committee is drawn up by agreement, agreement, and only if it cannot be agreed on then goes to count. In public services, that's never the case. It has always been for a border collective agreement, and it will also be in the future negotiating committee composed of those trade unions representing all the professions involved in the work process itself. So it was for the first collective contract, so the one that was annulled, so it was for the one that ended as it ended. Therefore, ask that this law be subordinated to one profession, and let us forget other professions such as those. Pilots, such as Engineers not to mention any other professions that also have a great power strike. Engineers stop driving trains stop traffic. Tram drivers also stop traffic in Zagreb. Therefore, this law never allows any of these professions to negotiate or prevent them from fighting for their rights or strike. On the other hand, implementing this law over the past year and a half, there has been no problem for professional unions to express their will and to elect their rights. Remember the strike of the stewardess of Croatia Airlines even though it was only successful when the Union of Pilots joined. So it's very clear how and how things work out. In medicine, it's the team that wins, clearly headed by a doctor who's the team leader. And I think in these negotiations that are coming to us right now, we're going to find a solution to all the problems we're having right now. I note that as far as shift work is concerned and how it works, it is not a problem of collective bargaining. The collective bargaining is related to the part that is related to wages, salary supplements and everything else that goes with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84086	And two replicas. Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84087	Mr. Minister, you've now tried to set us up so we don't appreciate tram drivers, nurses, engineers or pilots, but you're comparing incomparably. I appreciate nurses up to the sky, having an extremely difficult job. I don't even know how I can function under today's conditions. But it can't be someone who doesn't share knowledge, calling and responsibility to decide about the other one. In this case, it is specifically decided. I did not call you out for your own interests to change and accept this proposed amendment, but for your general interest. And I thought you'd understand him because you're calling him that, that profession, that profession, and that's why I'm asking you because you're a part of why I insist. Not for personal interest because this isn't their interest either, this is a national interest. Well, the national interest is that no one leaves Croatia in which a top scientific expert, and Croatia is crying out for those and that it takes 30 years to make up for it. The departure of a professor of university or surgeon as I mentioned either Barisic or tomorrow Rudes or the Blacksmith of the Professors of any kind is now irreparable and irreparable, and at least it takes 20 years to even see if it's possible to make up for it. And that's why I think because of the seriousness of the situation and because of the long-term and general interest that you accept such a proposal without looking at it just so closely and don't compare anything that's incomparable. Because some professions can be compensated within 2 months, and some professions do not need Croatia at all, it should be acknowledged.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84088	Replication response, Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84089	So I don't know if we're talking about the same thing? So for the law that we are adopting is the same as the medical profession and the pilots, so the question of the possibility of strike and the efficiency of forcing the employer to achieve certain material reasons, any wages, any additions to the salary. The law so far has not at any time made it impossible for any profession that has the potential to make the choice in its own way. I'm going back to the other side that in medicine is an important team and that in medicine are equally important both the assistant and the cleaning woman who cleans up the operating room or the sterile unit, that we care for the same nurse who cares about the patients you're a doctor, so it's an important team. In the choice of the right to choose one, the other or the third party, it is important that all professions are chosen for a better position within the system for themselves, not only for doctors but also for nurses and that the collective contract recognise both specificities and thirds. And they were recognized and they need to be recognized. And it is absolutely certain that a collective contract that will sign all these specificities will be respected. Let's separate the work organisation issue, it has nothing to do with collective bargaining whether it will be a replacement second, it's a matter of minister and organisation of work. Here we are talking about collective bargaining and negotiating certain material rights. And so far, doctors have been involved in this, and from now on they will be involved, no one is blocking anyone's approach to negotiation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84090	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84091	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, there is a very important difference in understanding between you and me, including colleagues Maric and you. In fact, you assume that I from my doctor's office, like you, are looking at this thing and not at the general interest. Well, the general interest is exactly what Mr. Maric told you and I confirm. Well, it's a general national interest, a state interest for doctors to stay here and be satisfied. It is not for you to be content, nor for me, nor for anyone else, but for doctors to be content. What we're doing teaming up with our sisters and everyone else on the team, that's business. One is business and the other is collective bargaining. It's not the same thing. ... Well, it's not, so you can't talk, we're a team. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We are a team in business and we will always be a team and we respect our sisters and everyone else who works with us. But when it comes to collective bargaining, it's not the same thing. Furthermore, you say that you hope to respect all the specificities of the medical profession and that this fine professional union will formulate in talks, negotiations and collective bargaining. So you're like the Greeks, he's, he's got everything nice, it's great, we're doing great, we're making progress, our exports are moving forward, and our dear mother is going forward. He's an optimist at birth, I guess, just like you. Well, don't talk like that when you know it's not like that. And in the end, you said something else, you even admitted that there are personal animosities in the leaders of professional, trade unions, this professional union, so how can you not see that this animosity does not entail the consequences of collective bargaining, negotiation? From that animosity, I'm not going to talk by name right now but we know who and who ours are to tell the union doctor. Well, from that animosity, there are consequences to collective agreement between doctors, and that's clear to you. But that suits you, in fact, is the whole problem that suits you. And that's why there's a trade union. to brake and hitchhike the Croatian Doctor's Union. [[Thank you. Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84092	Reply to the replica Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84093	Well, they said right, you just didn't realize what you said. So collective bargaining and teaming is both. So a sister who has a salary that suits her, an instrumentist who adds instruments to you, who is satisfied with her work, so of course it's in your best interests as a doctor because you'll have a more successful team. And that's why collective bargaining is important to negotiate together. And we don't want to deal with the problems of animosity now between the president of one union and the president of another union because the union members have the same interest in getting better and having better material rights in front of the employer. So, what happened with the first collective contract and you know for a fact that doctors were in a better position, so then collective bargaining was appropriate and now it doesn't fit. I certainly hope that all these animosities that are going to prevail and that we will get collective because the only collective contract in the health care sector is not in line with all the other collective agreements. And we now have negotiations ahead, and certainly the negotiations will include the medical union. But this would be me thinking the precedent anywhere in the world if we were to deal with the internal problems of the leaders of the two trade unions, it was nowhere in the world, and it wasn't going to be in Croatia either.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84094	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. Final proposal of the Law on the Representativeship of Employers and Trade Unions, second reading, P.Z. No. 601; The debate on the text of the Law is over. The amendments were submitted by the HDSSB representative club and representative Goran Maric. I ask Minister Miranda Mrsic to plead on the amendments submitted. First of all, we're going to the HDSSB Representatives Club. Amendment 1 to Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84096	The government doesn't accept. The reduction of the criteria of representativeness from 20 to 10% is not acceptable for a number of reasons and is not on the trail of the objectives that this law seeks to achieve. The first criterion of 20% is not too high if it is estimated from the data that in the Republic of Croatia there is a union coverage of about 45% and the coverage of collective contracts is about 50%. In which sense, it is precisely such a criterion that collective agreements are negotiated by trade unions with the largest number of members. Given that the aim of this Act is to round the union and strengthen their synergy and mutual cooperation, the reduction of criteria would lead to further fragmentation on the union side and would undo the good effects of the applicable law, based on which more than 80% of the trade unions have their representativeness for collective bargaining, based on agreements signed by all trade unions operating at the level for which they are negotiated without the need to count. There is no obstacle to small or professional trade unions having their representativeness under a trade union agreement, following the above mentioned above.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84097	Boro Grubišić on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84098	Mr. Mrsic, you have a medical union thorn in your eye. And you're doing everything and you're using the repressive apparatus to, as your colleague here said, shut your mouth to the medical union and the health problems that are very, very burdensome. The proposed law that you have proposed on representativeness has excluded Article 3 of Article 8 of the applicable Law excluding doctors as healthcare system holders from social dialogue and collective bargaining. We believe that doctors should remain involved in social dialogue and collective bargaining on a border and collective agreement. We remind you that at this moment in the Republic of Croatia there is a large number of doctors missing from Croatia and that the inability of doctors to influence their social and material rights through collective bargaining will be an additional incentive to leave doctors from the Republic of Croatia, which is unfortunately a process in continuity. I don't know how you don't understand as a doctor, I also told you this in the debate and although all the medical associations and Croatian Medical Association and the Croatian Medical Chamber and the Union and the Croatian Association of Medical Doctors, so they are all, this time you are unique in that you are persistent not to say stubbornly in your decision but it will come to your head. Thank you very much. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84099	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. We will now move on to the amendments of our colleagues Goran Maric. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84100	The government doesn't accept. The subject of this Act is to prescribe criteria and procedures for establishing the representativeness of employers' and union associations of higher levels for participation in tripartite bodies at national level or in the Economic and Social Council and to determine the representativeness of the union for collective bargaining. Following that case, this law applies to associations of workers and employers and not to workers or to groups of workers having certain common characteristics. Since this Law does not apply anyway to doctors as persons related to the common interest, the proposed amendment is not related to the subject matter of the law in which it is in itself unambiguous. I note that the Economic and Social Council and the Government of the Republic of Croatia are clear and, together with employers and trade unions, it was clear about 10 years ago that there is no professional negotiation in Croatia and that everything that is required to mark the profession, so that the profession can be obtained by rights, can be solved by border collective agreements and has been resolved so far, and will be dealt with in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84101	Goran Marić, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84102	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, there are already professional collective agreements for doctors in many European Union countries, and here is only over Bregana if we cross you will see that it has been like this in Slovenia for 15 years. I have submitted this amendment for the purpose of avoiding an unpleasant and unnatural situation, that the rights of doctors are decided by those who do not share neither competence nor responsibility with them, but you keep trying, or you are not trying, but by your intention, to decide those rights by someone else rather than doctors. You do not recognize the importance of a doctor in society at all, you do not recognize the importance of this segment, although you like to use English expressions outsourcing, spin off, etc., I believe that you also know about brain draining, and you are doing this and opening up space for brain drying in the Republic of Croatia because 100 doctors who have invested in a high professional career and the state that has invested, which are irreparable and for 20 years, is also a question of whether they will ever be able to make up for it. For hundreds of such doctors have gone abroad, and 600 have prepared documentation, all due to non-recognition and opening and some low initiatives and agreements with some other unions and hitting on the medical union. And this collective contract is dysfunctional and unfair, just compared to the medical union and you as a doctor are working against them. I'm looking for a vote, and it's an honor to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84103	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. And Amendment No 2 to Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84104	An explanation as well as an amendment submitted by the HDSSB club. The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84105	Goran Marić, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84106	The following logic all day long, it's logical that you don't accept it, but it's still illogical that they've already become reputable unions, this law can't actually be representative unions and that legitimacy will still be questioned by the Doctor's Union, and you're changing the existing law to raise a level that would rule out the Doctor's Union. If all doctors were in the Medical Union, which is impossible because there is no such activity, they could not be a representative union under this law again. And is that a good solution? No, it can't be a good solution either for the government or for us in the Parliament or for Croatia, and that's the most important. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84107	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. And now we're going to make a statement about the final bill. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that with 83 votes in favour and 26 against the law of P.Z. No. 601. And tonight we will discuss: - Final proposal of the Job Support Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 666; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of the Law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. The opening proposal will be explained by the Minister of Labour and Pension System Dr. Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84109	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. It is too late and since this law has been agreed and agreed by almost everyone and it is necessary to pass this Law, I will be very brief. The final proposal therefore lays down the conditions, heights and means of providing support for the preservation of jobs, i.e. two types of support, support for the reduction of full-time and support for education or training as support for small value. Support for the preservation of jobs will be granted to employers who, during the temporary fall of business activities or after a loss in business, have made a programme for the preservation of jobs and have regulated tax and contribution obligations. Compared to the proposal for a law that was first read in the Croatian Parliament The final proposal of the Law differs in the following. The deadline for showing the loss achieved in business is reduced by one year and the employer will demonstrate a loss in business on the basis of the negative financial outcome of the annual financial report preceding the year in which the application for support is submitted. In this way, simplification of the procedure for granting support is achieved as the employer will have to prove a loss in business only for the previous year. We minimised the necessary documentation and simplified the documents that the employer needs to deliver with the aim of making this institute available to the wider number of employers. In order to simplify the procedure for granting support, it is also prescribed that the employer is obliged to create only one programme and this programme for the preservation of jobs. In order to facilitate the process of the employer, the programme of business recovery and the work-preservation programme are similar, it is prescribed that the same programme should only be established for the preservation of jobs and not for the recovery programme. So in these changes compared to the first reading, we went to the maximum simplification of the whole process. The percentage of workers up to 25% of the total number of employees in this employer who will not work for legitimate business reasons for a maximum period of 6 months and who will be involved in education or training. For the purpose of further clarification, provisions laying down the obligations of the employer during the period of use of the support are complemented, and it is prescribed that the employer benefiting from the support during the period of use of the support must not pay the prizes, bonuses, incentives, or other contributions in nature or money, unless these payments relate to regular operations. It is also prescribed that the employer may hire a new worker in another organisational unit if the operations in that organisational unit can be carried out by support workers, since they possess adequate knowledge and skills, but are not for objective reasons able to carry out those tasks. For example, if it is the second organisational unit, one is in Zagreb, the other is in Split, then it is logical that it is not worth it that workers from Zagreb go to work in Split. The adoption of this law will bring about impacts in the field of labour and employment, such as the discontinuation of negative trends in the unemployment of those whose jobs could have been preserved and the increase in the level of use of support and their better targeting, in particular in relation to labour-intensive sectors, by establishing realistic criteria for the use of support, such as conditions, heights and method of achievement, and also by this law achieves significant economic, social and financial impacts. I note that this law is also directed towards intensive branches, so the textile industry, the wood industry, and the goal is that workers who would otherwise fall in demand, or drop orders would then be fired and ended up at the employment office, will remain in the company and continue to work after returning orders. Social impacts are particularly important because they reflect the preservation of the social security of workers and their families, strengthening the influence of workers or trade union representatives on the conditions for the use of support and thus on social peace insurance. For this law, we have received the support of all social partners and, speaking of the effects, we believe that this law will preserve around 2,000 jobs. Our desire is to make maximum use of it, and for these other laws we will monitor the effectiveness of the law and any problems solved in walking. With this law, we are completing a full set of labour legislation and we are rounding the legislative framework that regulates the labour market in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84110	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. The first is the club of Independent Representatives on behalf of whom colleagues Grubisic and Cain were to speak, and they are not present to lose the right to debate on this point. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Vanja Posavac. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84111	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, in the first reading, the law has indeed received broad support and, of course, in the context of the overall reform of labour legislation and the next positive experience of other Member States of the European Union which have regulated this area through legislation and, in particular, with the support of the social partners, because the trade unions on the last Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership have given support to this law. There is, therefore, all the conditions for the new Job Support Act to be approached, which introduces a series of improvements in relation to earlier legislation that should encourage employers to use support and preserve jobs, and workers to improve their employability and position on the labour market. This law should regulate the conditions, height and way of providing support for the preservation of jobs by shortening full-time and education or training of workers during a period during which they do not work for justified reasons. The new support system could achieve that up to 40%, up to 16 hours a week, employment and jobs in periods of reduced business activities and reduced labour needs could be preserved through full-time reduction institutes, which could lead to the dismissal of part of workers. The measure of education and training of workers in periods where they do not work for legitimate reasons would allow the employer to maintain employment by restructure changes in business or technological and business processes in such a way that these workers are educated or qualified for the purposes of his business process or to acquire knowledge and skills that are sought on the labour market and sought. The proposed support is expected to preserve at least 2% of those jobs from which workers have achieved new employment after a short period of time in unemployment, which should be around 2,000 jobs. Support for the reduction of working hours shall be determined as a proportion of the wage for the number of working hours for which the worker is reduced working hours and, above all, to the minimum wage amount according to the specific regulation. With the aim of harmonised rights of all workers at times when they do not work, the level of support is uniformly equal to the minimum wage level because, with its application, it allows for full-time labour rights. In view of the fact that more than 50% of people who have entered unemployment from employment have lost their jobs in the activities of the processing industry, construction and trade that have low wage levels, the largest number of workers that could be covered by the reduction of working time will not have greater pay gaps before and after the reduction. Support for education and training is in line with the support that unemployed persons or workers receive during education during their prescribed or contracted salary but part of them in the amount of financial assistance as well as the costs incurred by the Croatian Employment Office pay. The adoption of this law will bring about impacts in the field of labour and employment such as the end of negative trends, the entry into the unemployment of persons whose jobs could have been preserved and the increase in the use of support and their better targeting. Economic impacts will be reflected in the maintenance of jobs and jobs during restructuring, particularly in the sector of the processing industry, trade and construction. Just following everything I've said, the SDP club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84112	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84113	Thank you, Vice President, Mr. Minister, with an associate, deputy, co-workers and colleagues. Here, it is too late, but before us the final proposal of the Job Support Act and what has to be said for sure that this is a good law and all those who have said here after this speaker that perhaps we should go only by emergency procedure because it is good, applicable and necessary did not wait long from first to second reading, it has been a very short time that from first to second reading, until the final proposal. Of course, the final proposal is an even better version, so as it is said, the deadlines and procedures have been reduced, so there is no reason, this is one of the laws that could indeed be unanimously adopted in the Croatian Parliament. I don't see that as an obstacle right now. What's certainly good doesn't mean good law gets good results. So, it applies to too many life situations to be said in advance it'll be good, we'll have an increase in intervention, we'll keep so many jobs. The forecasts are always ungrateful in this part but I think it is good that this law has the support of social partners and that social partners have in some way agreed that it is necessary to monitor the implementation of this law and intervene as appropriate. I would even argue that there is one of their little councils that might suggest an extended application tomorrow because I'm sure life will face certain life situations that are not predicted. It is still worth commending once again this final bill of law, which is one of the laws that came to the constituency benches in our hands which was extremely well argued, which did not hide any fact. Therefore, all those who wanted to obtain certain information and create a picture of the area covered by this law could have created it. The HSU Club will be pleased to support the adoption of a final proposal for a Law on Support for the Conservation of Jobs. Too bad maybe 20 years ago when we had an industry in one phase that could be preserved we didn't have this kind of access to job conservation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84114	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a colleague, Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84115	Thank you, Madam Vice President, distinguished ministers with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, first of all, it should be said that we appreciate the progress since the last debate although it seemed to stay for the fall that here before the summer break you will pass this law as well as this whole series of simplifications that we see in this amended bill. What remains a key observation after all, which is that we still think that 5 million kuna per budget is what we still have too little. But I have to look around, because today we're kind of talking about jobs, a few things. And that is, somehow still today we've been working all day dealing with jobs and hiring and firing, and we've mostly replaced the causes and consequences. We mainly dealt with the consequences, and unfortunately, as often as before, we have not dealt with the causes of our problems. And on the other hand, there was somehow too much debate from the 20th century. I think at the end of the day we're going to have to decide that we all go into the 21st century together and society because I don't think we're going to stop some processes as a few people and a small economy. It's, like, a process of globalisation. We can only decide whether we will succeed or fail in that 21st century and in the EU. As far as the law itself and this one is concerned, but in fact everything we discussed today I must repeat here that unfortunately no law can preserve jobs. It's just so impossible. If that were the case, if we were to pass the law together, I'm sure we would support it so that not only would the jobs be preserved but the new jobs would be opened. However, jobs can also be preserved and we have been talking about this for the past 2.5 years, and even longer, can be preserved by tax discharge, can be preserved by support for the private sector, can be preserved by support for investors and changes in our legislation that are terribly complicated and in fact there are a whole series of obstacles to investors. We can preserve the reform of public administration and the improvement and reorganisation of the entire public sector, we can preserve and create conditions for new jobs so that the whole government and the entire administration are much more in function and access to the global market for our exporters and for our producers and not only for producers but for the entire sectors of the Croatian industry. We can preserve them so that this government has finally put into operation funds for economic co-operation where billions of kunas lie and instead of creating new injustices and destroying jobs for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and craftsmen, money could be taken from the Economic Medium Funds, for which they were founded, so companies like DiOKI or Gredelj could be preserved. Something similar will eventually happen, but fortunately, it will happen positively and it is a power line. And finally, it's not irrelevant, and it can be preserved jobs and so the state cares about the cost of capital, especially the cost of interest. It's pure happiness and excessive liquidity in the world markets that we've now recently been in debt with something lower interest. However, given that we are a full member of the EU, if this government had a completely different and economic and tax policy, then today we would have a much lower interest, but not only in the state because it has a direct impact on the entire private sector, on the banking interest, on the interest paid by citizens, on 10. 15, 20 and over. So these are all measures in some way and now that I don't owe it here at 8:00 p.m., how I can really preserve jobs. Unfortunately, however, we are witnessing this, and I have to do it again in the end, and it must all be concerned, regardless of which side of this assembly and beyond the assembly are political officials, which is the fact that today we are arguing the most dysfunctional economy of the EU with all of our potentials that we are unequivocally, I think we will all agree, we have. That trends are terrifying and that the debt that has grown before this government is of course, but it has completely exploded and out of control over the past two years, and without economic growth it is impossible to put under control and impossible to actually resuscitate long-term and control public finances. And that objectively what is threatening us in the next year, given that certain members of the government, and as far as I can hear today and the first vice president has told your government, that the reforms are over and that this government has no intention of implementing reforms, I don't only know who makes them stupid, so she thinks that the government that hasn't implemented any serious reform, which has brought down the economy, has produced new 60,000 unemployed, won any trust, and that I believe that someone believes that this team in any future is ready to implement any reform? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84116	Thank you. And final Minister Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84117	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. What was expected, we didn't have much discussion. I thank all those who discussed it. I hope this law is supported by all clubs. And his goal is to preserve jobs because that's what's most important for workers because it's most important to have a job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84118	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. And now to make a deal for tomorrow, we'll start with the final proposal of the Life Partnership Act of the same sex. And we'll be working on points 14, 15, 16 and 17. Thank you very much and good night. Final draft law on support for job conservation, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 666. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I ask Minister Mrsic to plead with me on the amendments. Amendment 1 to Articles 2, 5, 6, 13 and 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84120	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84121	Amendment 2 to Article 15
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84122	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-07-09-0.u84123	They become an integral part of the law. We don't have any more amendments. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that with 89 votes for, 16 against and 4 abstentions, the P.Z.E. law has been passed. No. 666. My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day and we will begin today's session. My colleague Jasen Mesic.
