ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78122	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. The Law on Regulation of the Market for Railway Services and the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications should be adopted in the package and only then have their own meaning. So the explanation for these two laws is almost identical. So allow me a few introductory words. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has launched reform and other fiscal consolidation measures for the period 2014/2016. One of the measures with fiscal impact in 2014 is the rationalisation and merger of agencies. This measure involves systematic rationalisation of state and public administration through the merger of agencies, funds and institutions outside the State Treasury system and in line with the economic and fiscal policy guidelines for 2014/2016. which the Government adopted in 2013. As part of the implementation of this measure, this law proposes the accession of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency to the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency or to HACOM. In 2007, the Railway Market Regulation Agency was established by the Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of the Markets for Railway Services, which created a legal framework for the achievement of the function of an independent regulatory body in the field of rail services with a view to better supervision of the business of railway operators, which enabled non-discriminatory access to all participants in the rail market under equal conditions and ensured the professional and effective operation of rail market regulation operations with public authority. The adoption of this law and the establishment of a regulation body for railway services has continued the process of harmonising domestic legislation with EU regulations and, first of all, Directive 2001/2014. The European Parliament and the Council of 26 February 2001. On the allocation of rail infrastructure capacity and the collection of charges for the use of rail infrastructure and the allocation of security solutions. Since, in the meantime, the European Union rules in this area have been substantially amended and Directive 2012/34 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 establishing a single European railway space that is uniquely governed by the European Union's rail transport area and the area of regulation of the rail market in order to adopt it into national legislation has joined the adoption of new laws in the area of rail transport. Although Directive 2012/34 has mostly been adopted by the new Railway Act, its provisions governing the regulation of the rail market will be adopted by the new Law on the regulation of the rail market, which will replace the applicable Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of the Railway Markets. This legislation will fully take over the provisions of Directive 2012/34, which will fully regulate the area of regulation of the rail market in order to fully monitor the requirements of the Single European Market in a functional and organisational sense, and ensure the effectiveness and economic sustainability of rail services. Following the above mentioned new single regulatory agency, the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities, which is created by the accession of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency to HACOM, with the existing competence and tasks set out in the Law on Electronic Communications and the Law on Postal Services, also becomes competent to regulate the rail market in accordance with the new Law on Regulation of the Railway Markets. This ensures the continuation of the operation of the regulatory body in the field of rail services in a modified and economically more acceptable design form, which will allow conditions for more efficient and rational operation of the single regulatory body. The creation of a single Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities, which, due to its domestic and international visibility, would retain the existing reduced legal name HACOM will have the following effects: rationalisation of the structure and business, so joint business, joint general jobs, there is no need for new employment since HAKOM has adequate legal and commercial services. Further reduction of the costs of regulation of the electronic communications market, postal services and rail services, the provision of a common regulatory function for all three of those markets and the synergy of horizontal cross-sectoral use of necessary knowledge, skills and competences from legal and economic professions. The adoption of a new Law amending and supplementing laws, namely this Act and the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, together with the new Government of the Republic of Croatia, implements one of the fiscal consolidation and fiscal impact measures in 2014 and integrated by increasing the efficiency of the system of national regulatory authorities and raising the quality of services provided to citizens and economic operators in the market for electronic communications, postal services, rail services in changed economic and social circumstances. In the end, only very simple, in fact, two of them, in order to rationalise the overall public business, two regulatory agencies are joined into one, or the Railway Market Regulation Agency belongs to HACOM. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78123	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the representatives of the Committee's working bodies who discussed the final draft law wish to present reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It's the club of independent MPs, the list of independent representatives. Grubisic Cain. First of all, my colleague Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78124	Thank you, Mr. President, Deputy Minister, gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me get an answer to that question once, how much they spend on the media and the PRs. They are such a similar question were answered by Mrs. Ani Komararic Devcic to our MPs, but she won't answer to me. But they will, they will. They'll make them answer. But let me go back to this law now. This is an extremely important law, I'd even say it's pretty hard to follow. It regulates one matter that is precisely to be acknowledged was regulated in Croatia, but here only now can we say that it is beginning to actually apply. As the deputy minister said means two agencies are now joining up in one. Whether it's more expensive or not, it's irrelevant now, but let me start in a way. Article 8 states that the annual report on the work of the Agency in relation to the rail market includes data on the state of development of the rail market and the achievement of regulatory principles and objectives on procedures initiated by the parties, on procedures initiated under official duty, data relevant to the development of the rail market, data in the procedure relating to the rights and obligations of passengers, etc. Thus, the agency primarily promotes market competition in the rail market and in particular in ways to prevent distortions or attempts to prevent distortions and restrictions on competition, removes barriers to access and the functioning of the market and promotes a more efficient use of rail infrastructure. However, I would certainly dare say that exactly what is said in one of these existing legal solutions, starting with the 2011 Directive, then our Law on Railways from 2013, and when we talk about this directive here, it is said that railway carriers are given equal non-discriminatory and transparent conditions of access to rail infrastructure in all Member States for the purpose of providing all types of rail transport services. This right includes access to infrastructure linking inland water and sea ports and other service facilities referred to in point 2 of Annex 2 which serves or could serve more than one end-user. Railway undertakings shall be granted the right to access rail infrastructure in all Member States for the purpose of providing services to international passenger transport, etc., etc. We can say by virtue of this law that we are getting one serious competition. Maybe we won't get it today, we'll get it tomorrow. Either way, we'll get that competition soon enough. We will probably get some European money for these railways to build and maintain infrastructure, but as we see so far on every euro invested or paid from Croatia in Brussels, we usually withdraw the same euro by giving us priorities. It can be freely said that by virtue of this legislative or legislative practice, the monopoly of the Croatian Railways sort of ends, or at least that's how I read this Law on the regulation of the rail market. What's certainly important, what I'm most interested in, is what's income on our railroads, and that's this freight traffic. We in Croatia on the railway have several major projects that have started with realisation, it is Long Village-Križevci, it is Gradec-Sv. Ivan Žabno new railway, Subsident-Samobor and electrification Zaprešić-Zabok. The main objectives of the railway are, above all, an increase in capacity and speed, on international tracks 160 km/h at a regional level of 120 km/h, 80 km/h on a local level. We have 2468 km of single-wheel rails, 254 km of two-wheel rails, and we have somewhere of which 977 or almost 1000 km of electric rails or extruded. It hurts me that no one, not even on the horizon, thinks about Uck's tunnel. But we'll be easy on the tunnel, we won't be easy on the tunnel, but no one thinks about these tracks from Buzet to Pula, or from Lupoglav to Stali. Until the '90s or '91s. The years of the Istrian railways were made up of Slovenian railways. For every inch of the Croatian sea, Slovenians fight like lions we see, now they have an arbitration of 2.06. scheduled between Croatia and Slovenia, but the system of railways immediately left a better return to Croatia. And it says just how profitable Istrian railways are. But no matter what it takes to keep that railroad alive. But let's let it go now. On page 2 of this bill, I am literally quoted as saying, "it is the purpose of the adoption of this law that by opening the market in rail services and by strengthening competition, greater quality of service provision, reduction of costs, protection of end-users and ensuring conditions for the flow of European capital by increasing the number of domestic and foreign railway carriers." Now, if we run out of railroads, if we don't invest in it, I don't know who we're actually gonna protect. But I kind of get the impression that a lot of things are actually done for strangers. Okay, I don't mind if they lift that system to its feet, but what exactly are we doing? It is also seen from this explanation where it is said, among other things, that this law regulates that the area of regulation of the rail market will be brought into line with the expression of European legislation, the work of regulatory authorities, the procedures against regulatory authorities, the protection of passenger rights, etc. etc. If we lose our most profitable lines, we will be able to maintain the Croatian Railways system in this imprecise match on the Croatian Railways. I know that we are part of the European Union, that those universal European principles of market non-discrimination, of business non-discrimination, of political, religious, racial non-discrimination clearly must be respected, and for that we have finally defined ourselves, and we have fought simply all the time and we have to play by these European rules in some way. We will support everything at all, but we must also realize that we are getting one serious competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78125	The second part, Honored Representative Grubisic, Ivan Grubisic. I apologize for having two Grubisic, Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78126	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all and we will in principle support this proposal of the Law on the Regulation of Railway Traffic, but I note that this House must first have the priorities of the Republic of Croatia, and then align with the standards of the European Union. As much as possible and as much as it's worth to us. I believe that today in Parliament we have received another man who will raise the level of debate about all the problems and that is Mr Linic, so I welcome him, and I wish him success in the parliamentary benches. There's one that says, "We're always full of wishes and a little comes true.", unfortunately that's our reality. We are full of desires, desires and to implement European regulations, but according to our public assessment, we have just received a passing grade, a score of 2. This is not good, it means that the people feel that this Parliament is not breathing and not solving the problems of the people, but is fulfilling the orders of powerful men who mainly solve problems for their own benefit or from their large states. I advocate that the Croatian Parliament's assessment of our efforts to get everyone on one side and on the other will at least rise to a satisfactory score of 3, and we will contribute to this through our joint work and by solving concrete problems. I come from Split from Dalmatia, Dalmatia can be said by means of traffic connected to the metropolis and the rest of Croatia, Dalmatia. But I must stress that every time I drive, I have to realize that we are doing about 70 kilometers more than we need, that we pay both time and kuna, and that a merger over Knin that was neglected by traffic with the rest of Dalmatia and Croatia was a more important link to the metropolis for us, would avoid accidents in, weather accidents as they are present today, and the train should also be through Knin that goes, but by the time it climbs Malovan, it takes him 2 hours. They would cut through the tunnel under Malovan to Gracac and then be able to go rail and bus traffic along that line. It would cut the trip by 1.5 hours, it doesn't have to be a highway, it has to be a fast road. And we advocate that we address our priorities domestically, and that we put European Union legislation elsewhere, not for the sake of demeaning and non-accepting, but for our opportunities or our inability. So, I want us to get the Parliament's work grade up, and that's what we're going to do if the people recognize that we put our priorities first, whether we're on the right or on the left, and that we should improve the work of this home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78127	Thank you, Your Honor. At the presentation of a respected colleague, Damir Cain had one replica. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Cain very often mentions that some of the former times when the speeds on our tracks were much higher than today. It is interesting that 30 or 40 years ago the train arrived on any part of Croatia rather than today. He also spoke of the advantages of joining the European Union and mentioned, therefore, investment in the Croatian railways or infrastructure on the Croatian railways, and he also mentioned the tunnel, which I would very much like to integrate and rail Istria, so since it is in the ruling coalition, if I were to say it belongs to it, I would ask him how much it was done to get some European, money for a European project to break through the Učka railway tunnel or, as Cica Rio says, as he already likes to say. And if there's anything in that direction, maybe he knows more than we do the other MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78129	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78130	Okay, I belong first of all to myself, but okay, let's let it go now. Still out there in '93. The late President Tudjman solemnly laid somewhere near Lupoglav stone foundation for the start of works on the railway tunnel and as you say Ucka or as I would say, let's say, Cicaria, whatever. However, of the cornerstone that every clue has come to mind, I don't think the ones who set it up... Not that it's healed, but we don't even know where it is anymore. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So it didn't go through or anything happened. I used to talk about the Parliament speaker that by the '90s, '91. The years of the Istrian railways were made up of Slovenian railways. We can say whatever we want, they're even that, that system as much as they've maintained, then that system is normally returned to the Republic of Croatia, and since then the system has simply been abandoned or left to itself. I am aware that nothing will happen in due time from the railway tunnel, from that old dream bishop, the great bishop Dobrila, the Istrian realtor, but at least I would like HZ to take care of what remains of the Istrian railways because without the Istrian railways there will be no Istrian ports, and without the Istrian stripes and the Istrian ports or Croatian railways in Istria and the Croatian ports in Istria, I think there will be little use for the visas of our economy. And in so much indeed, I am asking the Deputy Minister and the Competent Ministry and the HH to do something about what is simply... necessary, that this system simply does not fail entirely because if it happens, the next day neither God will be able to raise it to a new one. We have such a situation on the track from Lupoglav to...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78131	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, fellow MP. Let's move on to the debate of the representatives' clubs. The Croatian Labourists and Honored Representative Mladen Novak are next, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78132	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Deputy Associates. Well, as you expect... Respect for you, too. As you expect, I will disagree with this proposal, this idea, unlike my predecessors. Just for those of you who forgot, to remind them, it's about the Railway Market Regulatory Agency that hasn't long had her report here before us. It's that famous report that says they've received seven items, in five they're not in charge, and two they haven't been able to solve in a year. At the committee meeting, I asked that an additional financial report be prepared for the plenary session, to see what the effects on the abolition of this agency that I and then said should be lifted, such as, if we are not able to bring it into order, then it must be lifted, and I think that by connecting with Hacom, we will do nothing. The financial report further either I overheard it or was not told here, but it is clear that, in the meantime, the website of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency has been removed from the financial report and the funding plan. Is that an accident I don't know, but it's very signifying. Last time we asked the question and their stay, i.e. paying rent on Jurisic's street which we consider inappropriately expensive, there is no speech about it, but it was not the main motive on the board, the main motive was to make the agency more efficient. This agency of its design is so effective that essentially all its work is being painted in the current state of both our two national carriers. This agency has not done anything wrong, which systematically destroyed both carriers, especially Cargo. The pain of the Minister of Transport is extremely great, but I'm sure no one here has the illusion that anyone, any agency, was doing something without having the blessing of the ministry. In this report, the agency we last had is quite often referred to as legal regulations, i.e. indetermination of legal regulations, which makes it impossible for them to work. That agency exists for a few years, seven, eight years, it doesn't matter. In these few years, there has been no single proposal for a legal amendment to what they say they can't work on by the agency. For what? And now, look at the receipts, look at the official routes, it's, I called her last time that it's actually a travel agency for its own employees. I didn't see any of the other meanings of that agency. Maybe someone is, if it is, I admit the arguments, if someone can just explain it to me. What will be the effects of this merger? So maybe the effect is that they move Jurisic's streets to the headquarters... where Hakom has supposedly a story space, it's just as questionable, because they're also in the space they rent. Another effect may be a reduction in the director's salary, but all employees who are currently there will remain there, which is to assume that the mode of work will also be identical. So we can't expect any movement based on this bill. Okay, the law implies the law can't even fix everything, but frankly, there's no reason to put those two agencies together in this way. What am I saying that for? Especially because it's in Minister Hajdas Doncic's portfolio, which I claim is that everything in his portfolio is questionable, every decision is questionable, and every one of them is suspicious, and in every one I see something underneath. One of these is something of which I will warn you or remind you of, say, yesterday's statement in one press where Mr. Minister said, about the sale of spring buildings, which I also asked the prime minister yesterday, which is why we are going to sell Pružovne konstručina when it is probably the most successful construction company in Croatia, which, according to a union letter received by all members of the board currently employs 2,000 workers. And we sell it, if what the unions write is true, then we sell it to suspicious customers. So again, I'm going to remind that Romanian famous and back in this ministry. We're going to have private maintenance, which means now instead of the state monopoly, we're going to have a private monopoly. In such a case, at least I know that only one railway administration or one state in Europe is that the UK would eventually re-purchase this same activity at a significantly higher price but in a significantly lower state. That experience we've seen with others is irrelevant to us. Nobody looks back on that, okay? It's okay and let's move on. The minister said that Pručni ravine does not sell the company but is the sale of the HZ administration or HZ Infrastructure. Well, if there's anyone to believe in such a ridiculous statement, and it's well known that such a company can sell, a daughter, can only be sold with the consent of the ministry because it's all state-owned. We can't fool ourselves, put our heads in the sand and say it's a matter of administration. It is well known that no administration of any state-owned enterprise can make such a move without the consent of the Registrar. Here in this law is mentioned and they responded to it which I find rather odd but commendable, way of funding the agency's work. She reacted HZ Infrastructure by resisting this. I also object, is that for those who have not entered the problem it is an additional imposition for our carriers. At this point, he's still ours. Does this mean that tomorrow we're counting on not having our own, and we've come to terms with privatizing everything as it was yesterday except for health and education, and it's already well under the influence of privatisation? I don't know. I'm not sure. Is that really the purpose of this social democratic government, or are we reading it wrong? I am also taking this opportunity to "thank you" with irony to all EU parliamentarians from the SDP and HDZ who have not long raised their hands in Brussels for the 4th package. I must point out that there is an honorable exception to Mr. Picula who was the only one against those two groups. I highly doubt that any of the other agents in our office have any experts, any other people that it's about is simply got a thumb up and raised your hand for it. But just you and those laws, we know they wouldn't matter, but that's exactly the kind of law they're working on, that's what they're talking about. The liberalisation of the market, but it's essentially bigger to eat small. The kids don't stand a chance of survival. But on the other hand, what's going on? Those services provided by small national operators won't work by anyone else, because that's not interesting to anyone else. These are our national interests, but they will no longer have anyone to work with. I don't know if the state policy is compatible with that kind of thing, but if I have to admit that I don't understand it that way, I'm sure I don't. In any case, the Croatian Labour Club will be against a solution against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78133	Thank you and the club. But we do have a few replicas on your exposure. He is the first respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78134	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Novak, you're in your bit of a surprise, and there was a debate here when we discussed a report by the Railway Market Regulatory Agency. In that part we talked about what the agency could do in the seven years it exists, I think the 2007 law was defined and in 2008 I think the agency was founded. She was really in this part of it, as you said in legal matters, not in charge, and in those parts where she was in charge, those complaints were out of line. We are through these 4 packages of the directive that we adopt and which are introduced into the Law on Railways, and now they have to be entered into the Law on the Agency for the Protection of the Markets of Railway Services, a series of legal really legal measures that we are in line with the legal property of the EU. And that's where the question arises whether or not we have a choice to act differently. You're making doubts, of course, but look, if one thing you go and if you set up such legal frameworks, then it's hard to make a turn because it says this until now all we've been doing is messing around now we're going to do a whole different thing. So, all that's written in the agencies as an independent regulatory body in our country is the only Croatian National Bank that actually has a constitutional category of regulatory body. All other regulatory bodies shall act individually. And then the question is, what are their powers? I think with this consolidation of agencies that, more models exist, which will be chosen, you'll see. I think their role and importance will increase. And then what you're saying later doesn't necessarily mean that in the end the arrival of foreign investors, the arrival of other companies will necessarily cause all of this that is created in Croatia to fail. However, you know as well as I do that on the railroad things are not good. Everything that's been found. The railroad, there's that commercial train is always faster, unfortunately with us the train is always somewhat slower. And I think we all have to work together. And in these legal decisions, I see no danger, but an opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78135	Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78136	Thank you. My colleague, I said I was against this law because he won't solve anything. But I'm also against the agency's work the way she's worked so far. The law makes it impossible to solve the quality of work. You can create some legal framework but it's impossible to solve the quality of work, it's already something else. But what this agency has done so far has been working to bring down national carriers. She worked through a way that the network report always accepted the infrastructure. So now we have a situation that we had, for example, which I cited two years ago here as an example. We had, say, three ships in the port of Bakar and 50 or 60 wagons on shipping, infrastructure closing the rails, agency keeping silent about it, paying for foreign cars, paying for rent, delays in ships, boating danguin, all of it paid by the national operator, the agency kept quiet about it. That's where the agency was supposed to react. You have a mass of such cases, a complete Zagreb node closed the infrastructure with remonts. There was only one approach to Slovenia and over... The agency's keeping quiet about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All costs go to the national operator, to the harm of HZ CARGO. And beyond that, the findings of HZ CARGO fail because they are incompetent. Where do you want them to take you, which way? Who will pay these additional costs, no one A or B. Whether there was a possibility, two years ago I showed paper from Slovenia, a solution from the Slovenian Government approved by the Slovenian Parliament to the national operator in local transport, means within the state borders free of access, rent access to routes. The possibility I mentioned here, excise duties, of diesel fuel to be downloaded to the national operator, HZ CARGO, does not make sense that HZ CARGO through the fuel price finances road construction. And on the other hand, Thank you. [[Intruder: Time, fellow time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78137	New Replicated Representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78138	Dear colleague Novak, in your presentation, you wondered if it was all about privatizing everything. That's why I answered the line. Well, a long time ago, this government said it would privatize everything. And why would she privatize everything? He'll get rid of everything, so he owns the state so she can only collect taxes. What's the government doing that for? Because we've heard countless times from government members that the state is a bad manager, that the state can't manage. 101 times, so 100 times the government said that, I repeat 101 times, it's a bad driver because it's bad people who run. We are aware that in countless cases, the same directors who were directors when she was a state owner manage the same companies when she was a private owner, interestingly that they can't manage when the state owns and can manage when the private owner takes over. It just means going consciously, knowingly destroying everything the state has in its possession. So that's a 100 times-repeated lie that in many people becomes true. It's about ignorance, and it's certainly about ideology, the neoliberal ideology that this government is bringing together.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78139	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78140	Thank you. Well, you mentioned privatisation. I remember from the beginning of the session of this assembly, the current First Deputy Prime Minister said we wanted a railroad, created a railway that would fill the state budget. Honestly, there's no such thing or at least I don't know about it, but I don't blame myself for knowing everything, so now this is kind of weird. On the other hand, an ugly structure for which a daughter, in the form of HZ infrastructure, is now going for sale, although the minister has done everything by restructured, or reorganising that this company is further driven away with both people and with the capacities it does not need and does not need at all. The company has regained its profits. And now he's supposed to sell it. So even those who might possibly be able to fill the state budget and who are positive let's sell them too. On the other hand I also remember the debate, one of the debates about the railways when on this side they told me that we, as in France railways, are national pride, so we will also create national pride from Croatian railways. Well, I'm afraid this is national grief, sadness, which is also the misery that was created over the years, but now in these last two years it's been a disaster.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78141	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the SDP club and the respected representative Tomislav Žagar. Here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78142	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club supports the adoption of this law. The railway market is a relevant market in which ARCA needs to be provided with a transparent and impartial performance of rail transport activities. The rail services market concerned comprises a set of services which, by law and the EU, are defined by Directives as rail services. This includes only the relationship between the operators in that market of infrastructure managers and railway undertakings and related to access and use of infrastructure. The relevant market for rail services does not include a relationship between the railway undertaking and the transport user and related to the transport of goods and passengers. The market for rail services in the Republic of Croatia is based on the following assumptions: the principle of separation of infrastructure managers from railway undertakings, the principle of independence of the basic functions of infrastructure managers, the allocation of railway capacity, the establishment and payment of fees for the use of rail services and others, the definition of railway infrastructure as public goods in the general use of which all under the same conditions can benefit, the principles of competition, the principle of transparency and the principle of equality of market participation. The Agency shall, as an independent regulatory body, ensure that market rules are respected either by providing legal protection to the applicant, whether, under its official duty, it monitors the market situation and intervenes with its intervention measures in the sense of ensuring the rule of law. The market economy is the basis on which the European Union has developed, and so are the member states that make up it, including the Republic of Croatia. By accepting the same economic starting points that have been introduced into the Agreement establishing the European Community. Such a commitment creates the obligation of the State to establish a legislative framework that ensures the achievement of entrepreneurship rights on an equal and equal basis among all market participants. These starting points relate primarily to the economic part of the establishment of market freedoms that allow free circulation of goods, services, capital and labour. Investment and business must be made possible to all investors and entrepreneurs on the same basis across EU member states. Therefore, the legislation governing these and other related issues in the Republic of Croatia must also be brought into line with the acquis of the European Union. The development of the Union common market through the free flow of goods, services, capital and labour, as well as the accelerated development of technologies, has opened up a number of opportunities for new, more complex forms of business cooperation or hybrid products and services that are sometimes a step ahead and for which it is not easy to find uniform legal solutions to which traditional legal systems are particularly held. Specialised state institutions with special public powers, so-called independent regulators, starting with fundamental features which make them unique to upgrade or extension of the administrative and judicial functions of state authorities on the basis that meet the needs of modern market business. The number of regulatory authorities as well as the areas for which they are established is not limited but is conditioned in addition to the obligations arising from the EU acquis by developing market relations and the level of attention of the state to improve them in a way that promotes entrepreneurship, financial investment security and consumer welfare by promoting sound competition. This is, among other things, a political definition between the concept of a strong or weak market regulator. The definition is reflected in the individual level of independence of individual regulators which is reflected in the right to adopt sublaws, the right to impose fines on operators, the right to self-financing from market operators and the court finding which is resolved under the legal remedies imposed against the decisions of regulators, the choice method and the resolution of key staff of the Board of Directors. Also, this commitment is reflected at the level of consolidation of market regulators, so we can say the individual regulator, the smaller socio-economic force, the consolidated regulator of the larger socio-economic power. The process of liberalisation of the railway sector in the Republic of Croatia was started in 2003 by the adoption of the Law on Railways, which began in 2006 and which for the first time was regulated by the issue of opening the rail market through the establishment of a special body for regulation of the rail market. The start of the process was continued by the adoption of the Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of the Markets for Railway Services which created a legal framework to enable the achievement of the functions of an independent regulatory body in the field of rail services with a view to better supervision of the business of entities in the rail market under equal conditions. The adoption of this law and the establishment of regulation bodies continued the process of harmonising domestic legislation with that of the European Union through the adoption and implementation of the secondary legal rules of the EU that regulates these issues. In particular, Directive 2001/14 on the allocation of the capacity of common infrastructure and the fixing of fees for the use of railway infrastructure and security certificates. Since then, the secondary legal rules of the European Union have been significantly amended and, in view of the need for further amendments and clarity, it was necessary to adopt a single act, Directive 2012/34 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 establishing a single European railway space. That directive has mostly been transposed into the new Law on Railways other than the provisions governing the regulation of the rail market, which will fully implement those provisions by adopting this law. The purpose of the adoption of this law is to achieve greater quality of service provision, cost reduction, end-user protection and to ensure conditions for the flow of European capital by increasing the number of domestic and foreign railway undertakings. The regulatory authority has a role to play in protecting railway market participants, and the adoption of this Act will contribute to more stable operating conditions under market conditions. In addition, this law creates assumptions of a more efficient and rational operation of the regulatory body by joining the current regulatory body of the Agency for the Regulation of the Markets of Railway Services to the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities as part of its integrated organisational part, and compared with the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications will ensure the continuation of the operation of the regulatory body in the field of rail services in a more modified and economically acceptable organisational form. The improvement of the quality of passenger rail transport services and their protection in the context of a wider consumer protection policy in the European Union is one of the basic foundations for the achievement of the positive effects of the common transport policy in the rail transport sector and makes a logical sequence and overall development of the competitiveness of rail transport. With regard to this law, it will be regulated in order to allow for the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 1906/2006. 1371/2007 on the rights and obligations of passengers in rail transport to protect the rights of passengers and thus fully regulate that area. This law will regulate the area of regulation of the rail market, in line with the European legislation, in part the work of the regulatory body, the procedures against the regulatory body, the protection of passenger rights against the regulatory body, cooperation in the field of regulation of the rail market, and create a legal framework to facilitate better supervision of the business of railway operators. To enable non-discriminatory and equal access to all actors in the rail market under equal conditions and to ensure the professional and efficient operation of rail market regulation operations with a view to achieving greater quality of service quality through the full opening of the rail market and strengthening competition. The efficiency and economic sustainability of rail services, protection of end-users as well as ensuring conditions for increasing the number of domestic and foreign operators on the railway market. The proposed law will create a legal framework to enable the achievement of the functions of an independent regulatory body in the area of rail services to be achieved in a more economically organised way with a basic purpose of better monitoring the business of entities in the rail market. A non-discriminatory equal access will be granted to all participants in the rail market under equal conditions. Ensure professional and efficient operation, regulation of the rail market, better efficiency and economic sustainability of rail services, and ensure full and more quality protection of passengers as an end-user. Following all of the above, the SDP supports the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78143	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Let's go to the replicas. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78144	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Žagar, and I do not, in principle, have any objections to what you said, but you were talking about an ideal type of railway, railway, traffic. You were saying it should be in ideal conditions probably in the ideal state. However, everything you said has nothing to do with the Croatian reality, it has nothing to do with the Croatian railways, it has nothing to do with the Croatian government's intensities. I think we should talk here about what kind of condition it is and what to do to make it better. You need to know that rail traffic dropped 50%. So here's more. He knows Novak exactly how much. And we're now saying that with some kind of artificial merger, which I'm going to say under the second item of the agenda, by artificial merger in which there's no analysis, by illogically connecting the non-compatible that we're going to improve and that we're going to have good traffic, good traffic regulation, we don't have. We have 200 agencies, councils, I don't know what not. 100 if no one in Croatia had noticed. However, in those agencies, previous and current authorities have hired people who are very difficult to fire. In the real sector, 100, 200 or 500 workers can be fired every day, but here they are more protected than a bear. And now we're connecting incompatible and now it's going to be good from tomorrow. It won't be, there'll be even more chaos.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78145	The reply to the replica is a respected representative of Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78146	Thank you, Mr. President. A respected colleague, Vuksic, may have had one place in which there was no money to compete in any of the county or major leagues, so he decided to compete with the neighboring football club next door, but they will play each other's football, but they agree to set up a bunch of their two seats and the winner of that cup one of those places says they would still compete in some leagues or participate in some state cup. But then they tell them but wait, you don't even have a league commissioner, you don't have an alliance or anything. They say we don't need that. True, I'm talking about ideal conditions. The question is, what do we really need today? But the same question is, where are we today? In 2014, we are EU members, there are rules in the EU, they are clear. There are rules that we ultimately signed in all those pre-accession agreements, and we have to stick to that. I'm not talking about individual cases, I can't tell you right now we're starting here, the agency is being consolidated. Therefore, two agencies, the Railway Market Regulation Agency, are linked to HAKO as one network regulator. There is a consolidation or process of consolidation in the future that can have three models – a multi-sectoral market regulator, this means HACOM plus the Railway Market Regulatory Agency and plus HERA in some multi-sectoral HACOM that would then control that market. But the idea, what I said in the debate, maybe you noticed, an individual regulator of less authority, less economic power. The consolidated regulator has more social economic power. The second is the convergence market regulator. To join HACOM with the Electronic Media Agency. Or Hacom's functional market regulator plus AZTN. So by agreeing these agencies into legal entities that will have far greater power and that will then be able to control everything that we are actually afraid of today, and we fear, first of all, the arrival of foreign operators, I have understood so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78147	Honorable representative Mladen Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78148	Thank you. You said we're afraid of foreign operators. In the meantime, at the end of your debate, you mentioned a lot of such a positive Law on Railways where the EU Directive has already been implemented, but something else has been done that none of us have asked for, which is that we have made it possible to make that law possible for more infrastructure managers or for those who are less monitored, this means that we can give each share or each railway to someone else for management and availability. What's that filled up for, who's in the best interest of it? Bus tracks or these so-called "massage lines". The corridors that are according to the former, they're now a trans-European network. It is in the interest of the European Union but only as a reserve, reserve direction of the second fourth, former fourth. This right here is the reserve direction and Europe is interested in making it useful when they need it. Let's say sub-level, I think you're on that side, a sub-level highway as far as I can remember isn't covered by that, I know it isn't. Well, today when the sugar beet campaign starts, so that railroad doesn't work, and it won't be because it doesn't invest in it, and it doesn't invest in it because you can't invest money in European funds by this model, so in the meantime, you're going to lose your carb, but we're going to bring in some foreign operator who's only interested in what's profitable. And let's say, that part wasn't earned because it's a campaign that lasts a relatively short period of time. So then we'll be in a situation where these sugars drive in trucks which is much more expensive, we'll have the destruction of local roads costing units of local self-government. We are talking about the European Union's ecology and drive to the railways because it's more ecologically clean, and we're doing the opposite.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78149	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78150	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78151	The reply to the replica is a respected representative of Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78152	Dear colleague Novak, so with this last piece, I agree with you. The railway is by all indicators, meaning economic, environmental, however you want a means of transport that is much better than road transport. However, road transport has one characteristic, which is that it can enable transport from door to door. Of course, you can do that in the railroad, but there is always, and unfortunately we have to talk about it, there are lobbys. And today the question is, my county has 84 thousand inhabitants, if there are so many now, we all stop at the Barcelona-Real game, there's still room up in the stands. When you talk about transportation, and I'm talking about passenger transport, even children don't even go to school with railways, they go with bus carriers, and it could be organised, and it could be a county or someone could already organize that way for the railway to be reactivated in a safer and better way. It's economical for sure, I won't contradict you, a lot of things, a lot of illogicalness when you talk about sugarcan, when we talk about cement, any transport, there's a lot of things. Because the railroad could make it a more meaningful transport. Some railways were closed, just when you talk about my neighborhood, it is the railway Đulovac, Sirac-Daruvar-Đulovac-Bečelic, on that track is now under way, the reconstruction works are also with the Pleternica-Nasice railway. They're connected, connecting stripes. You're talking about the main probably Varazdin-Farther and sure that in the future this railroad, I agree with you, will not be interesting to anyone in a commercial sense. The state has to do, the railroad is never worth it in this sense, as neither does printing school textbooks, except for the works of publishers. So the state will have to invest its share of the money to keep these routes. But I say again, a wider transport policy is important, a wider transport strategy to see how to revitalise rail transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78153	Honorable representative Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have to admit that you've been very nice to the SDP Club's views and they sound very good, but I have to admit that what Mr. Novak was saying was somehow more life-threatening and realistic to me. It is nice to talk today about opening up competition and business opportunities for all alike. And that's true, it has to, but it's weird that we our players, and you're talking about sports, sporty little dictionary, so I'm gonna keep going, and it's weird that we're going into the games to prepare our players so we don't give them food, to send them naked and barefoot, to weaken them, and then we tell them we're going to the competition with those who had coaches, conditioning trainers, I don't know what they're doing, and now you're competing with them. So, to me like this in that debate that you had sort of falls into the eyes of Article 29 of this law, which is the procedure of objecting to the railway carrier. Now I ask you what will happen when one of the passengers or the user of the service gives some objection, and we know what all the funny expressions for Croatian railways are like in the last year two. What will happen to the Croatian railways? Have we considered how this will reflect on them, and how will they survive in this? They will pay the fines, they will not be able to compete, and they are owned by the Republic of Croatia. They're our property, they're our players, we're those players naked and we're gonna throw them in the field. It's not a good thing, it's not a good law, and it's going to have bad effects.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78155	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is a respected representative of Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78156	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. That a colleague can agree with you if we talk about players naked and barefoot, but then we have to admit that we also have a lot of brushes and bumps. You see Jesus said today, the truth says this about a spiritual sense and it is true in many areas of human activity, "You can't pour new wine into old mixtures or in old containers." We've, uh, found ourselves in a situation that's really a little weird, but it's our own fault, we have to admit it. Back in these twenty-something years since we had the state, we've ignored a lot of things. Among other things, the railroad was neglected. The railroad is, you know it well, it's an indicator that we don't read much, how late it is in the rails. From 2,700 kilometers to 1,500, he's late in the remont. Therefore, the railway infrastructure remains the property of the Republic of Croatia and it must experience reconstruction in many directions as such. We have to make market conditions possible on that railroad. By joining the EU, we have adopted these rules and this is exactly what we are doing here, so an equal match is allowed for all those who are interested in such a railway. It is actually our job, and it is ultimately the task of both the Minister and the Ministry to try to get those people who can use this railway to invest in the Republic of Croatia, meaning that this infrastructure would rise to a higher level. It's the meaning of this whole story, it's not the point of embellishing or showing the wrong picture of what's in us today. But if it's not all that black talking, if you can go to sites, HZ websites and infrastructure, you'll see that there are certain investments and things are still moving towards the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78157	Thank you very much. 4th replica, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78158	Thank you very much. Comrade Sagar, you were talking about a single European railway market. So when we talk about it, we as the 28th member of that and such a united European market, and when you look at, so our infrastructure, train speeds, passenger and freight, the amount of cargo that was transported, then we would actually have this market of ours, as someone called here and these railways were so-called. The reserve rails in case of bad events on that corridor 4, and the other thing is that at the speed of our passengers and of our cargo, we actually belong to some exotic country. You've also watched these documentary shows about trains somewhere in Switzerland or France provens who drive tourists and show natural beauty because at the speed that our railways are now driving, you might actually get the idea that such traffic and such a way of HZ might be profitable. So we're talking about these speeds of 60 kilometers from Vinkovci, for example. to Zagreb you have 230km of railway, and the train drives almost 5 hours and divide 230 by 5, you get 47km on average per hour. Really exotic, but also sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78159	The idea of panoramic trains corresponds to the respected representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78160	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Grubisic, so when we talk about train speeds, I would not agree with you that the situation is so black. True, the commercial speeds of trains are quite low in the Republic of Croatia, but there are shares and relationships where they travel very quickly and comfortably today. I'm saying, what's the biggest problem is actually the amount and tones that actually the railways carry, and then the number of passengers, if there were more, then the railways would do better and, in that sense, could allow for further development of railways. What I particularly want to emphasise, and from these replicas it seems important to me, the infrastructure remains owned by the Republic of Croatia and depends on us how much we invest in infrastructure, how much we will withdraw from EU funds to make this infrastructure as acceptable, at the best level of quality, and then those operators who drive it can make better profits, and that is their only motive to deal with this business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78161	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the replicas. We're moving on to the debate and still at the clubs. It is up to the HDSSB club and respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78162	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister with the other team who's here. Well, I don't know how long since the beginning of this year we've been discussing railroad roads in this Croatian Parliament. Who's talking about what, the railroad council? And here we are discussing the railways and these debates that are mainly from Mr. Novak and some other critical, resolute minister absolutely does not respect, has not once appeared here at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, I do not know for which reason, but sends my message, I am not saying that my colleague Antesic is not in charge of the matter, but as Mr. Linic came and was here all day in the debates on finances in the state and Mr. Minister of Justice and others, but Mr. Private Ryan, we cannot see Mr. Transport excused it at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament. It is said that saving the budget and rebalancing, according to our minister of traffic, is saving Private Ryan. It would be much better if it were to guide the rescue of soldier Ryan to HZ and if HZ were the object of his reluctance, an effort to improve the situation on HH, not to be out of ignorance or intent so much spoil, as someone here said, Mr. Hrg, to put on a player, i.e. HZ, passenger transport or HZ-Cargo in a game with some new, fresh players who, behold, enter 85 minutes to stick or help their team score a goal HZ. And we're pushing our own car goals, i.e. the minister and employees, the managers of HH who are well paid for it. When I go home in the evening tired of the debate in the Croatian Parliament, I pass through Jurisic's street, the street of Nikola Jurisic, the captain of the defence... the only winner, they say, over Sulejman the Great, then I see a board on which the Agency for the Regulatory of the Railway Markets and before these discussions were in the Croatian Parliament, I asked myself what was regulated by the agency. It is situated in the first zone of Zagreb, on Jurisic Street. What does she regulate? It regulates that when someone travels to work in a shipyard or anywhere in Rijeka, and there are jobs there, we no longer have jobs in Slavonia or jobs or travels to work as a waiter or cook in Rijeka, Crikvenica, etc. The train from Vinkovac, Vrbanje, Strošinac and the rest of our Slavonia is poor, so when it comes to Zagreb, and the train leaves at 4.00 from Vinkovac comes at 9:30, and the only train that day is said to have gone to Rijeka at 7.50. What does the agency regulate and how does it protect the rights of passengers? How does it even protect the national Croatian interest that people can move slowly and quickly from Vinkovci to Rijeka from Osijek to Rijeka? So the trains from Slavonia come between 8.30 and 9.00 and from Osijek and Vinkovci, and the train to Rijeka went on a passenger trip to 7,50 in Rijeka. The only other train that exists for Rijeka is a train that drives at 16.57. I was at the station this morning to check and to be under duress for this debate for here and get that note. It is a fast train leaving Zagreb at 16.57 so around 5.00 hours and arriving in Rijeka at 9.00 just before 9.00, in order to drive at 20.50. That's what Mr. Novak says, seven cases, five unauthorized, two competent, but they haven't been able to solve it. In Jurisic's street agency, so jackpot for some who are party-like, you're not responsible for anything at the agency. Which corresponds to the agency and now we attach it to tell HACOM and loses the director of the agency's job will be the head of HACOM and his boss but everyone remains. And if we're going to continue to have this sort of driving order, the driving schedule of whatever you want that actually destroys the Croatian railway. What's going on with HZ Cargo? Let's talk more about passenger traffic. It was ordered from the Croatian government, such as cars ordered, 40 new passenger compositions worth a billion and a half kuna. She gave the guarantee, she knows Mr. Shucker, the Croatian Government has given the guarantee through HBOR, so we'll get 40, where are these trains going to drive, like those bending, bending? We're talking about removing the Osijek-Zagreb line, so what are those trains going to drive? According to the Pan-European Corridor 10 Zagreb-Vinkovci. What are the speeds aside from all investments by the Croatian state and those of the HDZ government and these SDPs from over a billion kunas annually to the Croatian Railways, and those who managed and distributed these money did not know and are not responsible for the schedule of these money. What has been achieved by investing in the Croatian railway? Nothing. The speed of trains on average, I said how long to travel from Vinkovac to Zagreb, which is Pan-European Corridor 10, and where are these other local railways. I've been on a train, and I believe many of you all over Europe. I traveled from Paris to Marseille TZV by ICE in Germany from Amsterdam to Munich. I traveled to Sofia by train via Serbia. There was a train driving Ljubljana-Zagreb-Belgrade in 4 hours, 40 years ago. Marjan Express was driving the Unijan railway Zagreb-Split 5.6 hours through Bihaća Unjska railway, you know what it is. The Union railway no longer exists that we understand each other, nor does it have any idea that perhaps with cross-border cooperation with BiH, a Union railway that is much closer and faster, but it is good for someone else. We'll dig a tunnel through Cicaria as Cain said to our Istria. Thank God it would be good for both of us to invest, but there's no thinking about it. So this law applies primarily to the Agency and the Agency's care goes by emergency procedure and the snail tracks. How much was that traffic down the road last year in passenger traffic on HH? Perhaps Mr. Antesic will know or the friends who are here, over 50%. What's the fall in HZ Cargo's transport? It's also about 50%. It is also up to HZ Cargo Petrochemy Kutina and Luka Rijeka, and Luka Ploče, and Gredelj, and Sugar, as mentioned here by someone already mentioning both in Županja and in Virovitica and in Osijek and a number of other economic operators, intended to destroy or from the ignorance of HZ Cargo. And now we will come to the fact that workers who have been fired will already have over 200 dues for damages according to court procedures, most likely as well as police, as already known to have paid food, more interest and damage than the basics, so we will again have one process in which the Croatian State and these are also Croatian citizens. And that's one inconsistencies, one inconspicuous management of HH. And when we talk about how everything was employed and who was employed, it is no wonder that this is how we treat Croatian railways. Where is the justification or where is the study of justification or parchment, or how is an analysis of the eligibility of the purchase of 44 new passenger trains said? Did we see that? Is that someone more detailed to us? Did the minister say we need 44 new trains, not maybe 14? What use will that be for? Where are your trains going to drive? Whomm will they drive when the traffic crash is almost 50% last year, so I see when I wait for the moustache or the ramp in Slavonski Brod on the state road by 2, 3 trains to pass, then it's a 5km plug, and when I'm first there I see a train from Vinkovci driving two wagons for a Slavonic ship there's no one in it and we're here waiting for 1,000 people in cars, half empty or empty trains. When did you see a full train? When did you see the tours, when did you see a lot of other things? Well, the train's more expensive than the bus, is that possible? Someone here mentioned a cornerstone in Lupoglav for this Cicaria tunnel. Well, once, the late President Tudjman, rested his soul, traveled by boat from Sisak to Rugvica, as he said there would be a port in Rugvica as a possible future port that would go towards both the sea and beyond the Cup, etc., of which there is nothing. The Karlovac-Petrinj railways, however, have also raised large stones for certain people. The Našice-Pletternica railway, the most important railway in the Republic, is the vessels of the Slavonia house, which was attacked by the Serbians and is no longer known when it will be repaired. And whether or not it will be fixed at all. What we're talking about here today, again about the agency, I don't know how many employees there are at all, I know there are nine cases she's had, ten employees, nine cases of which seven are not competent. Someone here said let the institutions do their job. No, not here, someone who was ex-president is whether, thank God it's not anymore, but those institutions would have a lot to find if they got caught up in. I don't think it would have been possible to dig up in two years, which was all done there both in HZ CARGO and in some others, in some other places on Croatian railways and how it was found, how it was employed and how it was managed by Croatian railways. I wish I could travel again by rail from Brod to Split, Slavonski Brod, my town to Split, as I was a child traveling when my father puts me on the train at 8 p.m. and I'm on the waterfront in Split and there my uncle welcomes me and then takes me to Hercegovina's personal car. ... Yeah, but that was, yeah, yeah, yeah, that was then, you have a presidency in Sunja so the locomotives are changing, so... we all know what it's all about. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So, without being late, Mr. Mlakar, yes. So, I would love to go across the canyon of the Una and the Una railway again, if the students had a chance from Nasic or Pleternica, Caglin and other places to come to Nasice in high school by train. And I would love it if tourists from Slavonia, our Slavons, or the employees of tourism on your coastal Riviera, Boric, if they could, if they could have a train connection to get there in due time, and not to go a day early, a day of riding before they got to Rijeka. Unfortunately, this agency that should take care of all this, especially about the order of driving, and I have cited the example still, and I keep saying it, and yet again it is the same order of driving that does not matter for Rijeka from Slavonia, either from Osijek, from Vinkovac, from Vukovar or from... About HZ CARGO's dependence, to mention the port of Vukovar which is a major project, has now caught the canals and ports of Vukovar, the port of Slavonski Brod, the port of Slavonski, that is, about river ports that have the possibility of rail transport, about the railway that leads once from Shamco Sarajevo to the other side towards Belgrade, there is neither a word nor a care. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We only care about about 10 employees of this agency and apply the European Union Directive on the right of passengers in which it says that passengers to European standards and we can think, when I travel from Worms to Mannheim train arrives in a second, from Mannheim to Munich, I catch a train to Zagreb, again in 5 minutes... I can barely get past two platforms to catch a train to Zagreb. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All in a second. And about Japan that we're not talking. Unfortunately, the sun is far away, and this is a far-reaching standard on the Croatian railways, and even worse is the standard applied by those who act and manage Croatian railways and, in particular, the minister who decides it all together. So I've asked for his resignation a few times already, but here. And I'm looking for her again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78163	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Let's go to the replicas. Honorable representative Mladen Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78164	Thank you very much. I hope my colleague Grubisic hears me. He began by referring to the minister's not attending the sessions, but I must note that he did not attend the board meetings or even when they were thematic except for the one where he appeared and then better not have appeared because it was really embarrassing. You mentioned saving Private Ryan. You have a joke on the Internet, one cartoon "I can't even get anyone to go save Private Ryan if it's Minister Hajdash Doncic. There's no gun." You mentioned 44 trains, the beam should make them. If you remember under pressure, Gredelj was forced into bankruptcy to execute bankruptcy under the old law because it was a way to save that company. This company not only isn't saved but people haven't received any severances. Although Minister Mrsic, in response to the parliamentary question, claims the opposite is not true. You mentioned another case, you mentioned something else, but I'll be back. The work of this minister, among other things, gave the license to a private carrier with funds from HZ passenger transport to compete with HZ CARGO. I'd like to have that jump, DORH, get caught up in it and let them say there's no one there. Let them say, OK, I don't claim to have, but let them check. It does not make sense that HZ passenger transport does not give its locomotives on loan to CARGO but gives one private person who can be licensed on the basis of these locomotives. And one more thing. During the former state in Sunja there was a triangla before the war so that it could be from Slavonia directly to Dalmatia. But this country took out that triangular.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78165	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78166	Thank you very much. Is that right, pal, let's start at the end of the sun, from the triangle. So he went, there was a hub in Sunja where trains went from Zagreb to Split via, so Bosanski Novi, Kostanica Hrvatska and Bihaća for Split. The second direction was Zagreb – Belgrade and again Split – Belgrade. So, a triangle that was in Sunja, but it was even solved that the locomotives didn't have to unbutton and tap from the front. But that's how this country decided that Sunja would be one station like that 150 years ago in Santa Fe, the last train to Santa Fe. But when you were talking about Private Ryan, that's what it looks like, a station in Sunja could be used for Westerns, for recording. So when you were talking about Private Ryan and you and I know exactly how they are, you even gave 400 cars to HZ Carg to this private company. It's just that, I wonder, I'm not going to argue that I wouldn't go back to information talks at the MUP. So, I can't, I have to wonder if there are any corruption-crime acts of destruction of HH Carg on purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78167	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Tomislav Zhagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78168	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Grubisic. Once upon a time, I think that show was called "Knowledge and Property," and I remember that there was always a lot of corn and that kind of thing in the show, so it was full of trailers, a huge offering. No one asked for a profit, it was simply a matter of what the offering was and how it was determined who was doing the best work. When I talk about Croatian railways, of course, you from this historical rakurs are looking at it and the second commitment was. The railways had a different status, a different position. We accepted, once again, the principles of the market economy as a member of the EU. In this direction it is very important to distinguish technical and technological preconditions from legal aspects which actually the Agency, at least I understand the agency's dealings with. The Agency shall exclusively deal with the relations between the infrastructure manager and the infrastructure user. Therefore, it does not enter into a relationship between the carrier itself and the transport user. That's what you were talking about. I think it's very important that jurisdiction. As far as the agency itself is concerned, well, of course it's awkward to say it here, but it shouldn't have been established in 2007, then, 2008. It did not need to be established to put people in an awkward situation that they could not actually act because of the legal framework. However, it is clear to us that everything that we negotiated in pre-accession negotiations and what was ultimately our obligation was. The key thing is that by joining the agencies now, they are expected to save 300 thousand kuna a month. So that's a good thing for the Republic of Croatia's budget and these remarks that you've been saying, so the money is not spent in vain, and that the function that this agency has is trying to renew is in an even better, rational and more meaningful form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78169	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78170	So, colleague Žagar you found the agency, so from 2008 you transferred clearly as a ping pong ball to, so on the back of HDZ, they were in power then. But don't like Pontius Pilate following HDZ's hands. You have a chance to do something that they are if you say so, so do it wrong, so correct it. Unfortunately, for two and a half years you've been in power, you're doing nothing. When you talk about corn and the price of corn, I will, given that you're a member of the SDP, the other day I've been cutting the house down and I found a book in the attic about peasant cooperatives in Slavonia and Baranja from '52. years, so I'm going to give you this book with a list of cooperatives and how many corn they produced at the time. That's five times what they're producing today. Where did that corn go? Someone meoed the attic so they picked it up, but I don't want to talk about it. I have a book about Ali, too, and I can give it to you. When it comes to the railway, this agency has in these six years been reporting to the Croatian Parliament on its activities and at the time, so the government of HDZ and its coalition partners, but also in your time and then we were all silent. But the time has come to be silent. The time has come to say that the money that the Croatian state has invested in shipyards and Croatian television, citizens have invested it all out of their taxes and cut off from their mouths for the Croatian railway, and that someone is all expensive, along with that agency that didn't care how Novak said about the blockade of HZ Carg when it was. That was supposed to be regulated by the agency, and you say she did a great job. So you have a report. Seven cases aren't in charge, two are in charge, they haven't been able to solve it. So what are we saying? What are we talking about here? Don't defend what's indefensible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78171	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivan Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78172	Not because my last name is but I would like to commend the presentation of representatives of Bora Grubisic for pointing out that he put our problems first in rail traffic, which he rated badly and questionably. I said that we are in principle for cooperation with the European Union and harmonisation of the law, but we must put our interests first as much as it costs us. Secondly, in principle, as far as I was present at the meetings of the Parliament of Transport and Communications Presidents never showed up. I would ask President-in-Office of the Parliament whether it is Hajdash Doncic or another to send an apology to the President of the Parliament why he cannot attend the session when discussing his territory and that the President of the Parliament informs us that the minister is busy for that and for that reason. It would be good and fair, not like this, if everyone took matters into their own hands and acted like it suits him. And I'd put a primate on our problems because as it went on the narrow track from Zagreb to Split, it went on for five hours, and now it takes a brother through Knin and Gračac for 8 hours, and that's uncertain. Therefore, things should be resolved there and the minister should be present or give an official explanation why he is not present at the session when it comes to his portfolio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78173	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, and I will respond later, the respected representative of Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78174	Well, thank you very much for being here to commend my last namer Grubisic, Don Ivan Grubisic, yes. In fact, when you were talking about the minister, since it has been 2.5 years since the constitution of the Croatian Parliament, and Mr. Minister for 2.5 years can speak freely, so let me go back to the informationative discussion on the underpriced relationship of the minister to the representatives, according to this House of the High, as we like to say. When you're talking about the Union railway, there's one I'd say atavim, so one of the remains of the relics, you'll understand better, because if I say that the railway exists right now from Sisak and Sunja to Volinje, then places on the Union, at the border of Croatia and BiH. That's the last piece of that ounce, the little part of that Une railroad, is it? We would love to have a discussion with the Minister about all of this here in the Croatian Parliament, but I am afraid given the experience from the board that we might need an English translator in this regard, both for you and for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78175	Thank you, too. As for the request that the debates be attended by the Minister, they may be legitimate but the debates are conducted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the presence of the Deputy Minister is completely legitimate and constitutional here. And the minutes from the session, either the transcript or the minutes we verify, will be delivered to the minister. But it seems to me there will be one of the conclusions to allow a trip from Brod to Split without an escort, that's all. There's no other suggestion. That's what we're going to ask the minister for. Thank you very much. New replica, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78176	Dear counterpart Grubisic, you wondered in your debate what agencies regulate. In fact, you were talking about a problem of railways that we've never seriously discussed, we're always discussing railways ephemeral, and now we're being encouraged by these very changes to the law. The agencies regulate themselves, the agencies in Croatia are mostly, honoring exceptions, their own purpose. They only exist because they employ some people. Before my colleague, Žagar, used to say that by comparing the agencies with the football leagues of the low-class, and that's where I fully agree, it's the last league of the agencies, that we need to have regulatory bodies so we can compete in Europe because we've now entered the big family and we're going to compete. What are we going to compete with? Are we gonna compete with the agencies or are we gonna compete with the good railroads? We don't get anything from these laws, we turn from hollow to empty, and we boast that 3 million kunas are going to fall into it, but the losses on the railroad will continue to accumulate. But we're happy because we saved 3 million kunas, but we're not, the law doesn't say any letter about how it's going to work better. That's what I used to say joining the incompatible. Someone used to talk about railroad status, what kind of railroad status they have. They have the kind of status the state gives them. The state insulted the production, insulted everything that was good before. So she shouldn't have taken ideology from that country but she had to take what was good, and the railroads were far better than they are today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78177	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78178	Thank you very much. My colleague Vuksic agreed with you, mainly on the role of the agencies and their purpose in fact. Because the government, both former and current, manufactures agencies, fills them with personnel from its political domain, from its political resemblance, and thus solves certain human resources and responsibilities that it has toward some people. That you are right about your replica best speaks this legislative proposal, which has 37 articles, and only article 35 refers to passenger rights. All other articles refer to the organisation and manner of work and responsibilities of the Agency, their jurisdiction, when intervening whether by official duty, whether by application etc. So, only article 35 applies to the rights of passengers everything else is exclusively related to the agency, we are actually dealing with ourselves, or the agency is dealing with itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78179	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the replicas, we're going back to the club debate. It's HSU's turn and Honorable Representative Zeljko Schamper. Here you go, buddy Shemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78180	Thank you, Mr. President, dear deputy with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The purpose of passing this law is to... Markets and strengthening competition in the area of rail services achieve greater quality of service provision, cost reduction as well as protection of end-users of services, and these are passengers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Agency for the Regulatory of the Railway Markets has a role to play in protecting railway market participants and will contribute to a more stable operating conditions under market conditions by adopting this law. One of the basic foundations of achieving the positive effects of the common rail transport policy is to improve the quality of passenger rail transport services and their protection within the framework of policy and consumer protection. This law should regulate the regulation of the rail market with European legislation in particular in the protection of passenger rights, which is the part where I would, through Article 35, remain the most in my debate. It is illusory to expect that this law will raise our HH carrier's services to a European level. First of all, in Croatia it is necessary to modernise the entire rail infrastructure, railways, train compositions, station, travel approaches in order to gain speed of travel and especially passenger safety. The law mentions almost every article from 28 to 32 the agency where regulated protection of passenger rights in rail transport is regulated and on which passengers do not know a thing or a thing about rail users. Personally, I'm a loyal user of railway services, often traveling by train at least two times a week. The train is an extraordinary means of transport when everything is in order, but different situations make passengers nervous and pressurize. It is not a problem when for the announced reconstruction of the railway, the setting of new tracks and the delay of trains is a normal phenomenon. The problem is extraordinary events when the train stops doing some haiarium and stands for several hours. And there's definitely the biggest problem of passengers' lack in the information system. Passengers do not know what is going on, why stand, how much will stand, workers are late for work, pensioners are late for long-awaited and agreed examinations or hospital shoots, students are late for lectures and exams and train staff, conductors do not have the right information. This was the case recently with a 5-hour interruption of the power grid between the Long Village and Zagreb. Or another case when on the Zagreb-Osjek route on the busiest day of the week, only 3 wagons were placed on Friday when passengers stood in the halls. In such situations, passengers are powerless, and they have no idea who to turn to, and then innocent conductors get hurt. Under this law, the agency is in charge of protecting the rights of passengers. In accordance with Article 28 of the Agency's competence, the Agency shall be under the following: 1. Implementation of Regulation No 1371 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the rights and obligations of passengers in rail transport, 2. Treatment under official duty in the protection of the rights of passengers, 3. Decision by passengers against the railway undertaking solution, 4. To carry out inspection surveillance in the area of the protection of passenger rights and 5. The adoption of rules for the implementation of this law. According to Article 29, the passenger is entitled to object to the railway undertaking in order to protect its rights prescribed by the Regulation, this law, the general conditions of the transport contract, the law governing the area of rail transport and other regulations governing the rights of passengers. On its official page, the railway undertaking is obliged to publish the procedure applicable under the complaint of passengers. The complaint may be made within 30 days of the event, and the railway undertaking shall submit a reasoned decision within the same time limit. If the passenger is not satisfied with the decision of the railway undertaking, he may object to the Railway Market Regulatory Agency. The Agency may, under its official duty, initiate proceedings against a railway undertaking, station manager, ticket seller or travel organiser if the obligations laid down in the rules on passenger rights are not met. The Agency shall be empowered to carry out inspection controls on the application of the Regulation as well as the general conditions of the passenger transport contract. According to Article 35, sanctions are also provided for 20 to 100 thousand kunas for a legal person who, for example, does not provide the following information during the journey: services on the train, the following positions as for example in trams, delays, main transport connections and the possibility of crossing, protection and safety, and there is hardly any of this on our trains. In the last 12 months, HZ has drawn a series of unpopular moves, and here above all, I mean the abolition of local lines, and even internationals from Hungary's direction through Koprivnica. A stream of hope to improve the better standards and safety of passengers makes the decision to finalise or reconstruct the river-Zagreb-Hungarian border. In Article 35, there are 20 items according to which there are penalties for railway failures which are at the expense of passengers in various situations, in particular if the carrier has not informed passengers of the situation and the time as soon as such information has been available in late arrivals and arrivals. If passengers start using all these options provided for by this law, HZ will find themselves in even bigger problems, and this is the only time that finally passengers get an adequate service in line with EU standards for their money. In the hope that this law will better regulate at least some of the functions in the area of rail services and achieve better passenger rights and passengers in other EU countries, the HSU Representatives' Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78181	Thank you, too. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow Schamper, you were talking about the quality of rail traffic, travel and you focused more on this passenger transport, and I think that in that part, since we're coming, that's why I volunteered for the replica, because we're coming from the same area, we're coming from a single railway centre that's been central and significant and in terms of and passenger transport, and now the truth is, is that now there's some Varazdin, I don't know what his strategic position is that he can be in charge of us in that part, but it's one other thing besides this, of course, that safety is in the first place, but that he's driving as fast and as possible. And I want to draw your attention and at another point that speaks in favor, you were talking about that negative thing that's in the passenger seat, and I want to distract the attention that happens in freight traffic, which is to say ours and Botovo and... where the extremely large amounts of cargo are being loaded. I have information that this one, that on this station... 80 230 cars a year to load and load so much weight... and almost 5 people, only 5 people do that job and now they're going the same way that they're cutting that number. So where does that lead? We run this part of what our colleague Hrg was talking about, that it means our team that wants to play quality well, translate as much and as best as possible, to weaken in some way, and that of course someone who will come to us in a worse sense, which is what you were talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78183	Replicate response, Honorable Representative Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Milinkovic, I agree completely with you. Of course, in my debate, I spent most of my time with the problem of passengers, because often I'm in a situation to see what problems are in rail traffic, I feel for these passengers because I've stated that there are a lot of problems and there are a lot of rights violations, more or less passengers, and we know why, the situation is difficult, the old compositions, the old wagons. However, I agree with you for saying that some of the functions from Koprivnica, which is a major railway hub, have in an incredible way crossed over to Varazdin. It is not clear to me how Varazdin can be a larger centre of the railway hub than our Koprivnica, which is practically the intersection of all directions, from the north to the south, from the east to Budapest, and here I agree with you that there are no good solutions, that it is looking too much to go to these big cities, and I think it is to the harm of the Koprivnica itself, the sub-level region which is, should be one of the most important hubs in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78185	Thank you, too. The HDZ club is next in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78186	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Deputy Associates. I will begin my presentation on the proposal for a law on regulation of the railway market with one sentence of our parliamentary colleague who supported the government, who recently said, "I don't believe I understand the goal and know the direction of this government's path," because in HDZ, we are looking at the problem of HZ of all laws at the level of the system, at the level of the whole, and we don't know much about what's happening and we don't really see where it's going. I will also quote Minister Hajdas Doncic, who announced an important strategic document in 9 months 2013. He said then: "The strategy of the traffic development of the Republic of Croatia will be completed by February next year, and its vision is clear. Railway, marine and river ports infrastructure, possible investments in airports that are not concentrated as well as the resolution of road infrastructure in the parts of narrow throats." That's what he said at the 9th month last year, it'll be by February. It's the fifth month, no one saw the strategy. No one. The last strategic document that we have, which regulates at least the construction of the necessary infrastructure, is from 2008, the National Railway Infrastructure Programme for the period 2008-2012. They also promised us another important law in power, the Law on Maritime Goods and Seaports. They said by Christmas 2013, it's almost Christmas 2014, there's no law. We wrote it in the HDZ, referred it to the procedure, I hope that if it is in any way discussed in the mandate of this government, that it will not... down at the bottom of the agenda and that it really offers solutions that require consensus, which can be applied and which can solve the issue and on the maritime good. I will mention another important statement, which is the vision of Minister Hajdas Doncic when he became Minister and said, "The Republic of Croatia is for me a state with modern trains, a strong air carrier, modern ships, quality roads." As that vision was realized, he confirmed another statement recently when he said, "HH has to break the lines, otherwise he would have gone bankrupt. What lines, I don't know, I don't care." This vision means about modern trains that traffic on high-speed railways, it comes down to cutting lines and not having, not just modern trains, no more lines. This was important to note in the introduction that we could talk about this law because what the situation in the Croatian Railways has been like for 2.5 years is something. We can't say we didn't discuss it in Parliament. We have changed the Law here on the division of the Croatian Railway Company d.o.o., this was done in 2012 with 5 companies we reduced to 3. We discussed the railway law twice last year, the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of the Railway System last year has been discussed 1 time. We have 3 agencies Agency for the Regulatory of the Railway Markets, the Railway Safety Agency and we have the Agency for the Research of Air, Maritime and Railway Accidents. They've changed administrations, some and twice. That proves something's going on. However, we do not understand the purpose of these changes. Why? Because if we wanted to cut the number of agencies from 4 to 3 then watching what we have from the agencies would be logical if we had merged the Railway Market Regulatory Agency and the Railway Safety Agency. The Ministry decided on something else. They've decided to connect to Hak. We don't see much profit in this, except for the possibilities that the promoter may have and predicted that HACOM has enough money to settle everything that this law gives as an obligation to protect passengers, i.e. their rights because we don't know where all the funds that this law provides for damages will come from. And why are we talking about those damages? That's what they're about. The fact is that workers in the system are getting smaller, investments late, funds from the state budget have also been reduced but are therefore days of guarantees much more than ever before, and everything has resulted in the biggest withdrawal of lines in the history of the Croatian Railways. There's never been so many lines. Not just the lines, but the frequency as in the last two years. These are truly unreasonable moves, inconsistencies and, of course, cause the dissatisfaction of all workers in the system, those looking for a service, they are passengers, and in the end the state is not happy with what is happening in that system either. Recently, even an interesting competition was launched, a competition for the best slogan to describe Croatian railways where many appeared. Croatian citizens are creative, I have singled out one who remains striking to me, and he says "Life flies too fast so travel to Croatian railways". It's something that's still being done and we can't say it wasn't, but we just don't see what's going on at the level of the system. counterpart Grubisic, counterpart Novak, warned that the minister of parliament is not coming, I will also warn. We haven't been able to hold an entire thematic session in 2.5 years, we've had it up to half and interrupted and the question is, when are we going to continue it? Everything we know about what's going on in the system we know from those who work in the system, they're unions, workers and, of course, media that also learn some information from time to time. It is acceptable for us in the HDZ to propose that the number of agencies be reduced, but there were also more logical solutions. A new agency was created, a Croatian Network Activities Regulatory Agency called HACOM. Perhaps it could also be called RAM, which will worship all postmen, teleopers, railways. For us, this is financially justified, indeed 2.5 million kuna per year for 10 employees is not insignificant and may be able to work. Maybe these jobs can be done at a different agency as well as they're imagined. But if that's possible, it'll show time given the very harsh violation provisions. See Articles 35, 36, 10, 20, 50, 100 thousand kuna, if you're not back before the time. If the passenger is delayed by the operator's mistake you can give him or pay him back almost 10 thousand kuna, it's not small funds. We know how fast it travels, we know trains in Croatia are late. The 2012 report shows that 100 train kilometres in freight and passenger transport, which is measured in minutes for passenger transport delays up to 3 minutes for freight transport up to 106 minutes. That's a lot to say about the facts I had to count on. We do not have a perfect system that can, as some other European countries, which let's say a directive and regulation we accept only by applying it to our system. This law was also made by HZ Infrastructure, but not by HZ Cargo carriers, HZ Passenger Transport. Once again, in order to truly speak with quality and maximum responsibility, we would need to know what this government is up to, and that's not possible because it's all covered by a veil of secrets and it just confuses us all. So I'm just going to take a brief picture of how the situation is, and that's what the trade unions have warned us about, I'm going to read a piece of the memo that was sent to both the prime minister and the president of the state by the Croatian Railway Unions who really need to worry us all. It was written by Mr. Ivan Forgač, president of the Croatian Railway Union, only some parts. "After the failed sale of HZ Cargo, a sale process is under way for the company Pručna konstručina d.o.o., and a public tender for the sale of the Association of Railway printers and Tersus Eko has been decided. The spring buildings are the most successful and the largest construction company in Croatia, 1600 permanent employees and 400 seasonal workers. but as they also include regular maintenance of the track current plan and out-of-plan it is a cor business of HZ Infrastructure without which it is not possible to carry out rail transport safely. When we talk about the regular maintenance of the railway, we should say that in Croatian terms it is a monopoly that is now in the hands of HZ Infrastructure, and that the sale of Pružni konstružine would make a monopoly according to the terms of the competition a stranger. The spring buildings are a successful company that employs a number of top engineers and does valuable work for HZ infrastructure. Without these people, rail traffic couldn't have happened. It would be sad to leave such a company in the hands of speculators. In particular, it is a worrying policy for HZ infrastructure to order works from spring buildings and increasingly late to pay. The debt in maturity for the longer term is EUR 200 million, which is at the height of 10 months’ wages for the workers of the railway building. As a result, they owe more than 140 million kuna to suppliers. Instead of regular payment of exactly pruning buildings, it is pointed to the resolution of liquidity problems through factoring that is extremely unfavourable and incorrect. The next concern was the announced serious reduction in railway reconstruction as a consequence of the budget deficit reduction measures. This would also seriously reduce the company’s revenues of the railway building. But this is not likely to make it easier to sell spring buildings. We wonder what will happen to workers of pruning buildings if the investor buys a company by counting on jobs of 2 billion and 800 million kuna and eventually gets jobs of 800 million kuna. We ask that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and HZ infrastructure come out immediately with a real change in the plan of investment in the reconstruction of the railways. We ask that the Government of the Republic of Croatia instead of selling spring buildings create conditions for the company to compete for the implementation of EU projects, rebuilding the railways to keep that money in Croatia. We believe that before considering the sale of the company it is necessary to regulate ownership relations and move the complete company to an appropriate location on the Pestnica in which HZ has so far invested 10 million kuna and this applies to the railway printer. So it's just some of the problems that unionists say. And when we look at this bill of law, we know that that sentence from the beginning that I set out at the very beginning makes sense. We really don't know where this is going. This is an opportunity to talk about Croatian railways, and it is important to warn about these problems, problems that plague workers, and that we know why something is not going as planned, which is why there are no strategic documents, which is why we have changed all these laws, we are trying to do something and our situation is getting worse every day. Let's take a look at the shipping. In the maritime transport of 50 state lines. Jadroline Law, Public Liner Local Transport Act. One agency that's been functioning for several years, the number of passengers is growing, it's not bad, but we always have at least domestic and foreign growth at the level of 1 to 2%. So the stability of the system, well-organized relations, the agency as an independent body that can control it with the help of the state can help this society, but we need to know where we're going. Unfortunately, the strategy is gone, the minister announced it but it is not there. For this reason, but also because this law is also related to the other, we felt that it was more logical to discuss first the first law on electronic telecommunications because this agency needs to connect with HAK in order to be able to have a quality conversation. We in Croatia will not be able to support such a proposal for a law on regulation of the rail market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78187	Thank you, now we're moving on to replicas. The first came from the respected Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78188	Thank you very much. Dear Boris, we are, therefore, in a similar position regarding this legislative proposal, so against but I would refer to three elements of your presentation. One thing is that as you yourself follow, it is most likely that President Josipovic in the United States has also made a statement and is thinking of making Croatia a European energy plant. Now that we see that there is no strategy for the development of railways, Croatian railways, what does that sentence mean, what does it mean for Croatian railways? Well, it's just a job. It's precisely the possibility of driving that ingested gas and oil and everything else on the way, so it's cheaper to transport by rail than any road and road transport. And we don't count on it. And here's what President Josipovic himself is talking about. We have HZ CARGO on the way to destruction. Secondly, when you were talking about agencies and that there were three agencies, I would cut short, so rail services, traffic safety and accidents, it was really too much for those three agencies to be united or united in one way, and say one too many conclusions just as to the traffic itself and the railways and the other traffic to unite into one. And the third is the competition for the slogan of the Croatian Railways. When I heard on TV that there was a contest I designed and some of my slogans and I didn't send it yet, I don't know if it was still a competition. And I'd be very brief and very clear. ... And then unfortunately, I have to go to college. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So speed is our virtue. By putting the speed under the quotes, it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78189	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78190	Thank you very much, colleague Grubisic. I'm back at my first opening sentence, I really don't believe I know the goal and I understand the direction of this government because we're acting on fire measures, we're putting something out daily. Someone remembered we're going to cancel the agencies now, all right, who's against cutting costs especially in a agency like this where we sort of in the Assembly, during the report, have smuggled seven lawsuits, for five you're incompetent and two you didn't get within the time limit. And you've been doing it for a year, 10 employees, even though there's probably other jobs. With this proposal, the agency becomes a service within another agency and at the level of service with 10 workers, there will probably have to be more. Because when all those rights that passengers have in Article 35 are applied, the criminal provisions for all you can get money or return are clearly stated, and all this is very applicable to our reality, that agency will need a lot of employees. And the question is, will they be able to solve it that way within that system? And will there be enough funds for those who are operators to pay for it because the penalties were really not small. And that's why we thought it was possible to put it together. If it's just the goal of having 3 instead of 4 then joining the Railway Safety Agency and this agency, they're compatible. Not with HAK, there's teleopers, there's mail. And I think it was more logical. Now, we really don't know what the government's intention is. Here's what's coming from a bill like this. We can't read it except what they say is good to the passengers. That's where we protect them, that's what we can support. And how it's going to affect the system will show time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78191	Second replica Ivan Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78192	Thank you, Chairman. Well, my colleague, Boric, in your excellent presentation, you've made a mistake. In fact, you've misjudged that nothing is happening at the system level. And I have to correct you something has happened, and this is the current Government and the Resort Ministry managed to give up the Rijeka – Zagreb railway. And this low-level railway is the only way to make Rijeka port an important European port, this low-level railway is the only way for Croatia to really today, when we are a full-fledged EU member of the EU to take advantage of its geostrategic position, this low-level port is also important for an investor with a concession on Brajdica, on a container terminal and is how to actually extend Rijeka port and to have a European and world port. And there's also nothing going on at corridor level 10. So corridor 10 now after the new RH1 is corridor I'll remind everyone here about which one world war started. However, we have no plan to use our geostrategic potential which we can use exclusively using ports and railways and not only seaports, but also Vukovar port. And therefore, not by chance HDZ has a project called the "Croatian New Door of the EU". As for fellow Grubisic, he went out, but he mentioned speed is a virtue. But at our speed, the North Pole will melt, and from the Far East to the European Union to the north will come container ships north of the Russian Federation, and goods will return from the EU, will be exported to the Far East. I'm afraid if at this rate we continue to develop our railroads and our geostrategic position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78193	Thank you. Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78194	Thank you very much. My fellow Milosevic, this government renamed the low-level railway as a mountain valley, so it started working that way. We're testifying that the recovery is carried out in part. And we have warned here that exactly the kind of recovery that does not meet the standards so that speeds can increase to the expected level will not be possibly financed from European funds. It'll show time. We can only be prophets for now. Which is why they're the only ones who know that. But I'm going to go back to this part they sent us from the union where they say another problem, which I forgot to mention there. It's about the company TERSUS ECO with 220 employees who are involved in cleaning business spaces and who want workers to take, so they want a working stock. Why am I saying that? Because we have the State Property Management Act passed in the seventh month of last year. The law stipulated that a regulation should be adopted within three months to prescribe the way in which the stockholders work. It's been almost a year since, that regulation's gone. If there is no regulation, there is no working stockholdership in the Republic of Croatia. And all the contests that are under way today and conduct them... as their central privatisation body, companies owned by the state cannot respect workers' shareholders at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why everything is sold in public tenders. There was no regulation, and it was within three months. So in 10 months last year, it's now the fifth month of 2014. Is that what this is about? Is that not a thing? Is that ignorance? I don't know. But these workers, and if they want anything, they can't do it because there are no legal conditions for such a thing, and the government has shown good intentions through law and said workers can participate in privatisation. But if there's no regulation then they can't participate because there's no way that's gonna happen. Is that on purpose? I don't know, but let's help these people, write down that regulation, and then let the government consider who can do what on this market. This way we can be just prophets again.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78195	A new replica of Tomislav Jagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78196	In your discussion, you said a few... What about Sagar? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78197	Tomislav Jagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78198	The noun's called before. Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Boric. Here's the first thing I'd like to say, and in your debate, of course, you said that on the side of the opposition representative in a different way. I'll say it this way. The strategy is being prepared through sectoral strategies, through all that is important for the strategy to be adopted. Of course, if your deadlines are controversial, I think it's a more important quality strategy. And what is equally important is the strategy that all of these are our directions that are necessary in the pan-European corridors and that this will also be important because of the withdrawal of funds from EU funds. And as far as joining the agency is concerned, you're wrong and I don't really think it's possible to connect the Railway Safety Agency with this agency because jurisdiction is completely different. Of course, the ministry has also managed other countries' experiences, so the Netherlands, in the Netherlands, one market regulator does business and protect competition and regulation of electronic communications, energy services and transport services. Slovenia is one market regulator performing the tasks of regulation of electronic communications, electronic media and transport. Luxembourg shall carry out the tasks of electronic communications regulation, energy services, transport and postal and rail. Latvia is one market regulator performing the tasks and regulation of electronic communications and energy services, transport, municipal services. German electronic communications, energy services, transport, municipal services. Spanish electronic communications, electronic media, energy services, postal, rail, air. So what is the key to this merger is to consolidate or increase the level of competence of such agencies, because such an approach once again increases the greater social economic power of these regulators. There are examples, different models actually which could continue later consolidation, so with HACOM, the ARC could join HERA as one multi-sector HACOM or network regulator that would then cover all these areas in the complete system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78199	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78200	Thank you very much. Comrade Sagar, we said we weren't against the agencies joining together, though. If we've all noticed that this agency didn't have any kind of a job and that it could be done in someone else's we're up for it. However, if you say that it is illogical for this Railway Safety Agency to connect with the Railway Market Regulatory Agency, it does not seem that way to us. I don't know why it makes sense with HAK? What do teleopers and mail have to do with the railroad? I don't see too much jurisdiction here. Now, if traffic safety is the most important then we could also connect the Railway Safety Agency with the Railway, Maritime and Air Safety Agency. If that's compatible, then. So we don't see why it happened here. We do not see it from a bill like this, and we have clearly criticised it. Experiences out there may know that, they'll show time. But I'm telling you, given the situation and everything that this law has predicted, we don't believe that this will help too much except that it will eventually seek new employment in view of the possible large number of complaints that will arise from passengers because HH is not in the best shape and there will simply be problems with financing these rights. What bothers us more is what the union announced. which affects the union, which is the privatisation of these pruning buildings where the experience outside of which Croatia does not want to be called, let's say in Slovenia, which have solved this if it is already impossible for the railway buildings to be these performers, i.e. working on projects financed from EU funds, Slovenians also had such a situation but designed a way to solve it and that their workers, their companies, can work on it. We don't want to use it, and that's exactly what the unions are warning us about. Maybe it's one solution and one experience that needs to be accepted from the outside. But we won't, we're avoiding it because it may be for the benefit of workers and our people, and here we allow it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78201	Replica, dear Mille Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78202	Thank you. My colleague Boric, in most of your presentations, agrees, so it is acceptable for me but you encouraged me to do this replica by speaking about workers. So this general regression in HH is not reflected in all environments equally. What am I saying? HZ Cargo on the route of the sector west from Karlovac to Pula of 280 currently employed 107 will be out of work and are out of work. What I find interesting among those 107 are one-third members of the Serb community. In Ogulin, for example, there are no more 66 workers at the railway station. So, in the area of Moravica, Ogulin, Gomir in Gorski Kotar, this is not reflected as well as in some more developed environment. Here, besides the railroad, people worked on sawmills. We know what the situation in the sawmill sector is, so these people definitely don't have a chance to work and have some perspective. The data also speaks that by the 1990s, 18 million tonnes of freight were carried from Luke Rijeka to the railway railways. Today, only 3 million tons of cargo is transported, and HZ Cargo has 6.5 thousand wagons of 2,000 wagons are not operational. Also, the data suggests that transportation from Rijeka to Belgrade today takes 7 days. So, what's the competition, then, that we're competitive with these indicators and facts? It's obvious that we care about how to connect the agencies right now and how to do it so that these people in the agencies don't lose their jobs, and we don't talk about these primary topics, we don't talk about the fates of people who are left on the street today by this regression in HZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78203	The replica corresponds to Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78204	Thank you very much. Col. Horvat when we talked about the 2012 report on the work of this Railway Market Regulatory Agency, I was talking about indicators at the time. About the decline in the number of passengers by 45% compared to 2011, about the drop in the carrying tonnes of cargo. So we've had a constant fall for a few years. And I compared that to road traffic, with maritime traffic where we have one stability and a normal development of these activities. It means that at times like these, there's something to be done, something to react. And recently I've read again, I've tried a little hard, says a unionist from Osijek to lift trains is guilty of the administration driving the passengers off the railways. It means something in the system is happening without being normal. We either have an overpriced ticket price or we're offering a service that isn't worthy of such a price or something in the whole I say to the transport system of goods and cargo from point A to point B is not at a good enough level for someone to accept it and that someone would want to use it. That's what we say we set up in sea transport, at the road level, the autocars are let's say private operators, there are more and they work. At the air transport level, we have an air carrier. Everyone claims it's great at this company now, and they'll show me the time, but we don't see any reaction here except for the amendment to this law that regulates the agency. And the unionists themselves, the people who work say management is guilty. The minister has replaced certain administrations, possibly being punished for perhaps not doing something, but it hasn't solved the problem. HH really has to, that's what we keep saying in HDZ, say what he wants for the next eight years. Let's see that strategy. She says the later she'll be better. Who says? We know it's a Hungarian-Spanish consortium. If our stranger is working on a strategy for the traffic development of the Republic of Croatia, I can think of what it will look like.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78205	New replica, the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78206	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Boric, you've said a lot and said a lot, I have to agree with that, too, in everything but one. I don't understand why you asked yourself and why you're asking a question so that we should know what this government is up to with the Croatian Railways. Well, that's very visible and very clear to me. You talked about the situation in the Croatian Railways and the slogans, so watch what the students say about the situation in the Croatian Railways "Who works early anyways with us always late", "What is HZ without delay?" "Take the train, take the bus, two at one."We're spending public money with style.", "The price of tickets are not included in the celebrations of four birthdays that you will welcome during the ride."Returning to Bible Speeds."The road around Croatia in 80 days."You're going on vacation, spend half your time on our train."Anna Karenina would still be alive with us." That's what students say. And I'm now based on what they're saying, I'm saying here that it's very clear what's going on here. So it is very simple, you talked about the penalties that will follow, it is very simple to see that Croatian railways will be the ones that will have to pay the most of these penalties. So, we allow this law to finally destroy the Croatian railways, it will remain as only the railways on which others will traffic, and it would not be a problem if the Croatian railways were not owned by the Republic of Croatia. We really, as people say, if we had taken our biggest enemies as advisors, we wouldn't be doing what we're doing to ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78207	The replica corresponds to Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78208	I'll just take a minute. My colleague Hrg, here is a slogan related to the general state, and this law also points to "It is important to participate.".
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78209	Replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78210	Dear fellow Boric, in your debate, you said everything was covered with very secret. However, it is not the government's intention of a secret, the government simply, which you were talking about later has no strategy and therefore wanders. And in that wandering he makes moves that look like something's secretive. And what colleagues have said before, since they seem illogical and secretive, they actually reveal that the government intends to destroy the railroad. Why are so few passengers on trains on the Croatian railway? Well, first of all, it's because of the fact that children in kindergarten work, and the timetable is done in such a way as to raise money and benefit from private interests. And that takes, one elaborate to explain to you how and in what way. The only thing that can be determined is what is when that veil is lifted, then ignorance and disorganization are observed. If so, we have seen a report on Croatian TV where the Railway Safety Agency has declared itself incompetent for the safety of trains. If the agency we're talking about today doesn't solve two cases in a year, and in five, it's unauthorized, so let's put an end to it, who needs it, what rules? And the worst thing anyone will say is we're adapting to Europe? What are we adjusting to? In ignorance, improvising, destroying railroads? This will not be imposed by any directive in this world on Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78211	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78212	And why are people protected in agencies, closing sentences, protected and railway workers fired?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78213	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78214	Thank you very much. Comrade Vuksic, why is everything so secretive? I don't know, here's the question we asked. Why don't we have transparency so that in public we don't make the woods in the canal, that people know what's going on and that people know what's waiting for them. Because when the minister speaks, I get the feeling that he's rejecting himself, say, this company. Here's one of his statements regarding the sale of railway buildings: "The railway buildings and the railway printer are not sold by the government, but sold by the company, the HZ infrastructure sells the railway buildings and this tender is in the finalisation itself. He finished the second round, and the railway printer sells a company called HZ passenger traffic.". Here, what would you say then? So whose company is this? Is this a government public enterprise, is it a Croatian public enterprise, is it the company of this Croatian government that puts people there she thinks are capable of running it? And then you hear this: "This is not the time of Austria, it is not the time of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia or of the SFRY, this is the time in which operators have new challenges which are primarily related to the Agency for the Protection of Competition and may plan restructuring with it.". So I'm the minister of a resistor where thousands depend on me, then I take it away from me and say it doesn't interest me, you're right there, so fight with them. I am at the level of the legislative framework strategy and don't ask me anything, which I know which lines are being cut. That's why we don't know what's going on out there. We have been asking for two years to sit down with them, to give us this time, and to be able to talk to him seriously as parliamentary representatives so that we can pass it on to another level. We had half a session, interrupted in half a session, and it never ended again. So much for the seriousness and attitude to this home alone, and how will the passengers and all those who are dissatisfied? You'll see, you'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78215	Your phone's ringing. New replica Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78216	Col. Boric, you said a few sentences, among other things, where all this is going, why there are no strategic documents? You also mentioned Minister Hajdas-Doncic and our committee that had been on for half an hour and left the cha and never showed up again to answer no to this but other questions. But it seems to be in someone's best interest that the railroad be completely destroyed. This is where the verse rules. The freshest example, currently on the river track is built-in turners, when they are built in, which costs millions of kunas, decided to change those turns on which the heaters have been installed, so someone will pay again, cost again. But destroying the railroads has been going systematically since the 2000s. Just a few examples because the waves have fired workers, where huge severance payments have been paid and at present it is at the stage, workers who carried 4 times as much cargo on the existing river track, than it is now with... new devices and easy sale and the House of Railways in Rijeka, Fabiančić, private house in the centre of the River for funny money, the facility is falling apart, the railway station is falling apart, there is no wagon. The same example is the Samsung crane in Bakr, which this state and the taxpayers will pay another 30 billion dollars, who knows when it stands, doesn't work, their tapes aren't compatible and the question you asked is, why don't we have a strategic document? It seems that someone is responsible for destroying all of this, that we are not able to do our geostrategic position in the heart of Europe, the Rijeka port, the traffic route we have, the entry into the EU will probably not be, because now the documentation is not working, we will be doing... the railway from Delnica to..., the requested station and everything will stand and fail.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78217	The replica corresponds to Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78218	Thank you very much. Comrade Klaric, what we can do when the prime minister doesn't love us, the prime minister doesn't love us in Rijeka. Simply, here, he replaced two ministers, a railroad that was supposed to be two-tracked now is some combination, so it became instead of a valley mountain valley. It's just not going to be us, we thought we'd be coming during this power, not going to be us. Here, that's the only answer. We're not going.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78219	Replica, Dubravko Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78220	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleague Borić, this topic is actually very interesting and you yourself have gone quite broadly from what alone is actually the problem we are talking about today, which is the merger of two agencies and colleague Žagar explained it very well. However, you yourself said that this is an opportunity to talk a little bit wider about railways and I'm also going to say a little bit about it regarding your exposure. Here, my predecessor, as regards the replica, pointed out that the railway had begun to stagnate, meaning since 2003, I would say, when the investment and plans of the government stopped, Racan's Government for investment in railways, and then it actually stopped investing and modernising Croatian railways. At the same time, the Slovenian railways did direction Koper, the Hungarian border and you today can see huge quantities of cargo on the Slovenian railways, as well as passengers transported from the port of Koper, Hungary, Poland, Russia and beyond. We actually lost investment time in the Rijeka port, investments in the Rijeka traffic direction, but not just in that direction. You yourself mentioned a reduction in the number of passengers and this recent suspension of the lines. That should also be said, not at the level of the jump, but at the level of the data. You've got trains from... to Daruvar where you're transported in the spic, so at 3 or 4 o'clock 20 passengers. And on the other hand, we have HZs that have to do positive business. And these are things that need to be talked about realistically and thoroughly, and only then will we be able to come to some conclusions. We have a situation that the railroads have disappeared, from... to Bjelovar through the railroad garage there is no, there is no thresholds, there is no rails and there are problems that need to be talked about realistically.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78221	Thank you. Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78222	Thank you very much. My colleague, I will never say that in the 2000-2011 period that everything was perfect and that it was the best. But it was... expected that at the same time we would be able to build 1,000km of highways and at the same time solve the entire Croatian railways. We're either gonna do one thing and we're gonna work it out a little bit or we're not gonna do anything. The highways were made, the state had no power, and now that that program has come to an end, maybe now is the time. But again, I note, we don't see where it's going. What's the most important thing? I mentioned that the last strategic document from 2008, there was clearly prescribed what would be built in the period 2008-2012, amounts which, shares, who should be the bearer, how much it costs. And after that, we have nothing, and it's 2014. There's probably still something going on under that document if it's happening right now. But what's important, I mentioned, is that in another system, like the sea, we have a nightline on which to drive sometimes and one car at midnight because we need it. Yes, because there are other days when there are 50 of them and it allows some kind of life to the part where the land is cut off from the other part of the land. And that state is helping, so it gives subsidies to that society, so they have some money to refund their losses with, but now they don't know what's going on at the level of the entire system. Here, if you know it, I'd like you to share it with us here so we can find out. We find out from the media and from the union. Everything else is covered by a veil of secrets.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78223	Replica, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78224	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Boris, I also noticed this where you talked about the strategy and unfortunately the strategy is gone and it is unnecessary to say how important this strategic railway is, the low-level railway, now there is no so let's say valley and how much cargo transport from the strategic port of Rijeka to Hungary and still, even the current indicators say how much burdens it is. This information about 80,000 and 280 cars on Gyekenyes Station and in the nearby Botovo about 16 thousand cars a year, with it being signed as far as I know the contract between HZ-A and MAV on the speed of cargo and transition to the Hungarian side. And now in that part of it is going to reduce these people's workforce five, six of ours doing it in quality and efficiency. Another thing, this information where we talked about the move of services from Koprivnica to a significant centre in Varazdin. So what does that have to do with a strategy under the law of physics can't be if this is straight this goes there. That smells like another strategy to me, like a human resources strategy. And believe me, it's not just you in the river that you're not going, neither is we going to Koprivnica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78225	There is no answer, so we will move on to the last replica of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78226	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Boric, you have moved me to a replica of your exposure that you might call first of all on your later mind. What counterpart Klaric mentioned, though, did not go into the elaborate, which is the fact that Croatian railways are a system that has been systematically destroyed, and I will tell you how. So the Croatian railways were overloaded with extra workers, it was evident to all in early 2000. Croatian railways also set out to handle technological surpluses by purchasing internships, sending in pensions and the plan was to open the railways to open the way for the restructuring of railways so that they could be competitive. But what happened after 2003? At the site of these workers who were technologically surpluses, new ones were hired, and the railways did not go into restructuring. I'll tell you something else, when you bought a new technology for railroads, so-called railroads. These famous tilt trains, first of all, are technology that was even outdated at the time and technology for which we have no infrastructure, so our tracks were not suitable for such trains. And now we see how many such trains lead. You can laugh at your colleague, Boric, how much money was spent on it and who was the minister at the time. That's not funny. And at the end of the day, do you know what oxymoron is in literature? When you hear in the same sentence HDZ, trade unions and care for workers, it's oxymoron. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78227	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78228	Thank you very much. My colleague Hajdukovic, I didn't mean to answer that, but when you said we were laughing, at the time of the lean trains it was the time of your coalition government so you didn't have to call yourself because I simply said not all governments were perfect in time from 2000 to 2011 and who wants to accept it that way. But I also said that the other thing was that we couldn't work out two transport systems, build highways, and at the same time solve rail traffic. If this is the time we have European funds now, let's settle it now in this time, you've announced it as a government. And what happens? Here's the time. Not to be what my colleague Mr. Maric told us yesterday to be prophets backwards. Let's not do this, because it's going to be after you when someone else comes and they're going to call on everything that's happened, but we're talking about what's happening today. This law can survive as it is, and it will show time whether we were right or you who suggested it in this form.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78229	Now we're going to continue the club debate. On behalf of the HNS club, a respected counterpart, Nada Turina-Đuric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78230	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy with his associates. The HNS will support the proposal for a Law on Regulation of the Railway Market. First of all, we believe that it is one law that provides a framework for the future functioning of this activity. I must say that some debates surprise me if we are talking about the law, if we are talking about railways as a whole then no, but if we are talking about this law, then I'm surprised by some discussions, given how much I remember how much we all here probably remember there was a consensus of all political options in the Republic of Croatia about Croatia's entry into the EU. We have passed the long-term and probably the hardest accession negotiations in the history of the EU and accepted, of course, by entering certain rules of the game. This law is in a narrow sense, looking at the adaptation of our legislation to EU legislation and rules of play. And in this sense, the HNS will support this law because it does not, in any way, deviate from the usual standards that exist on the EU market and within the framework of EU rules. The market economy, i.e. the freedom of the market on which the EU has developed, is thus accepted by the Member States by the same economic starting points concerning the establishment of market freedoms that allow for the free movement of Roma, services, capital and labour. Investment and business must be made possible to all investors and entrepreneurs on the same basis across EU member states. Therefore, the legislation governing these and other related issues in the Republic of Croatia must also be brought into line with it or brought into line with the EU acquis. The process of liberalisation of the railway sector in the Republic of Croatia began long ago in 2003 with the adoption of the Law on Railways which began in 2006 and for the first time regulated the issue of opening the rail market through the establishment of a special body for the regulation of the rail market. The adoption of this law continues the process of harmonisation of domestic legislation through the implementation of secondary legal provisions in particular of Directive 2001/14 of the European Community on the allocation of rail infrastructure capacity and the fixing of fees for the use of railway infrastructure and safety certificates. The improvement of the quality of passenger rail transport services and their protection within the wider consumer protection policy is one of the basic foundations for the achievement of the positive effects of the common transport policy in the rail regulation, as is the case with this proposal of the law. The purpose of the law is to open the market in rail services and strengthen competition to achieve greater quality of service provision, cost reduction, protection of end-users and to ensure conditions for the flow of European capital, by increasing the number of domestic and foreign railway undertakings. This is what this law adopts and the Croatian People's Party will support it in that sense. And since everyone talked a little bit about railroads in general then, and you took that right, then I'll say something in that part. Or I'll look back on fashion and some of the discussions. Because here it was said at one point that the first Deputy Prime Minister must have said something stupid, according to what his colleague said, when he said, in his own time, I don't know exactly where and when, but she said that it was the railway that would fill the budget of the Republic of Croatia. So if you literally looked at it as you often see it unfortunately in this House on certain subjects then maybe it wouldn't be true, but that's true. It is true because, through all the discussions we had today, there was one thing that was extremely important, which is that the transport infrastructure in this case is the rail one moment that has a significant impact on economic movements and on the potential for development and growth of the economy. In particular, given that I have been coming from Rijeka, or from the river area, and that there has been talk of the Rijeka route for decades, I would say, but very intensely, some 15 years ago. Sure that investment in railways and quality rail services is what it takes to make Rijeka port a competitive port in this part of the Mediterranean or one of the most competitive given its position. And it certainly draws the economy, given that I am not an economist and I did not extract that data, but all I know about it is that investment in infrastructure, rail and integration of Rijeka with the centre, Central Europe is something that would significantly contribute to the growth of the river basin's economy and in general to that part of Croatia and then of course to the filling of the state budget. Well, I just wanted to make it clear that there was probably a statement from the first vice president of the government. As for these great desires of all governments, I wouldn't say now that some of them didn't want to, perhaps they couldn't, build a river-Zagreb flatline. There was a lot of talk about it in our down space and when we came to power and there were promises to go into it. And I think one day it's safe to go to the construction of a flat track. However, this first step should be taken to ensure that the port of Rijeka is competitive, so that at all, it would come into a situation to meet those basic conditions that it must meet in order to be competitive, is likely to be sufficiently rehabilitated and modernise the existing railway. In a short period of time, this too will satisfy what we know about the volume of traffic, that is, the quantities that go along that railroad. But here what surprised me the most was the discussions of some colleagues who said that nothing seems to be done, that nothing is invested in that which is not, of course, true. I would like something to say about this Mr. Deputy because we know that here we have recently raised a loan just to resuscitate this piece of railway Zagreb-Rijeka, i.e. Rijeka-Botovo, and it is not true that this is not the case. When it's done we assume it will be, I say for a while enough. In the meantime, projects are being developed for all of this that we would like to rapidly build and invest in railways. Why? Because, unfortunately, the projects of the completed, the kind of projects that you can come up with towards some financial market or some bidders or European Union funds were not available, and they are being developed. What is the procedure at all to come up with projects of this quality so that we can compete for the European Union funds that we all know well. It just wasn't. I don't know why. For ten years, the HDZ government or 8, well, for 8 years, the HDZ government has built roads and tunnels according to a model designed at the time of the Ivica Racan government and most of the entire programme is circled not only as a project, but also as a model of financing. And excellently, the projects were mostly prepared, the roads were built for 8 years. Croatia has one of the best road infrastructures in Europe. They were doing it as we know it. The funding model was combined. And most of the time we're paying those debts today, of course, but we've got roads. The railways were one bite that was known to be not likely to go according to this model in terms of costing and that we will have to focus on using structural, or cohesion funds to finance such a project by entering the EU. Why hasn't the former government brought these projects to such levels that we can apply to those funds tomorrow should probably have those, members of the former government answer that question. And then all this systematic debauchery, that is, a systematic cry for nothing to be done. We've been in power for two years. You were eight years old, so in eight years knowing that highways are something that's actually an ad act, something that will in itself de facto be built. Why, then, the ministry and ministers and assistants and state secretaries did not deal with railways more intensively and qualityly, not only for railways in terms of construction and projects, but also for restructuring and for all that welcomed this government two years ago. So I conclude that in fact, all the debate that preceded in fact is in some way the defamation of dear colleagues of themselves, not these governments. That's what I had to say, because I just think it's true and that most of our citizens, although they know that the situation is difficult to understand and can see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78231	Thank you. Now we move on to replicas. First came the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78232	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you said that you were surprised by some of the debates that were here and that this law was only an adjustment to European standards. And I wouldn't be, it's true, and the law needs to be adapted. It wouldn't be a problem if it were just that, let's just say, it didn't happen that in the last two, two and a half years nothing good was done that our player who's tied to this law, and these are Croatian railways, as much as he's prepared and adapted for the game that is imposed on him by this law. And that's the main problem. You're talking about the protection of passengers, and I talked to a student from Čakovec earlier who told me that students were very angry because they had trains on weekends, Sundays for Zagreb who were always meeting students. Now it's supposed to be lifted, there's only one line left. What kind of preparation it was. So it's about some lines that are either shut down or not suspended because there are no passengers, and on the other hand we have lines that have been cut where there are passengers. A bit of a strange policy of preparation for this law. Well, I guess it was known that this law would have to be passed, and it was likely that in this direction it was necessary to do everything possible for Croatian railways to prepare for competition, to be able to participate actively in this competition, to be able to fight as hard as possible, and not to pay for the penals tomorrow, to pay the penalties prescribed by this law and to come to the final destruction of the Croatian Railways. That's the problem, that article 29 is a big problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78233	The second replica of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78234	Dear colleagues of Đurić, you mentioned in your debate and the ultimate objective of protecting the end-user of railway services and the commitment to Croatia's entry into the European Union. But I am quite sure that we have not taken the obligation by entering the European Union with this kind of ignoring behaviour of the Minister of Transport who refuses to talk in the Croatian Parliament, and even on the board on the subject of the Croatian Railways, that nothing can justify it. In 1963, I first traveled to Zagreb by train, drove 3 hours and 10 minutes and made great progress. Now he drives 3 hours, so only in 10 minutes they speeded the ride from Čakovec to Zagreb. '93. For the first time in years, I met with a message, getting the circumstances that there were extra workers in HZ, employees. Then there were exactly 24000 of them. Today there are 12,000 of them with added societies and still says there are too many employees, from 24 to 12 and still too much. Why? First all HZ ministers and administrations make every effort to drive as many passengers as possible as possible as users of Croatian Railways services and by slowness, not to say at the speed of driving. And secondly, with really stupid schedules, it's like the masters were stacking up a timetable to please bus carriers. Trains come or 5 minutes after the train leaves for the relationship, half an hour after the start of work hours, 15 minutes after the start of teaching without any logic and connection under the influence and pressure of local powerful men, sheriffs in the area of Međimurje and Varazdin's biggest nonsense in the train line HZ were made while there he lit and burned Čačić Because it was supposed to be good for two, three bus carriers. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] This is true and therefore HH cannot prosper because it is intended to free the market from private investors from abroad.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78235	The new replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78236	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues Turina-Đuric indeed, on the basis of this debate and the abolition of these lines that you have tried to talk about but in good light then there is a song called "Beige Jankec Chug You Boo Escaped", really trains are running away from our people but not in a way to be late on the train, but simply break the lines. Namely, your concern, as it was for workers and shipyards, is really this impressive, taking care of the Croatian railway. You say it is necessary, because we are part of competition and capital, that private and foreign capital should be introduced on the Croatian railways. That's what I'm quoting, those are your words. But this does not mean that we must destroy the domestic operator, destroy it, make a corpse out of it to then introduce private and foreign capital on the Croatian railways. You were talking about Luka Rijeka, let's compare Luke Rijeka and Luke Koper. Slovenian cargo, which exists next to the possibility of a free market, there is a Slovenian cargo that has 9% increase in traffic for the past year. A Croatian cargo 50% reduction. Luka Rijeka is constantly stagnating with gross tons of goods in Luka Rijeka, but we, like from the one story about Yugoslavia when we were telling the biggest port in Yugoslavia, are Luka Rijeka and we keep saying that. And the gross registration tones overloaded in Luci Rijeka almost don't move forward. That's why it takes a different approach than what you represent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78237	Tomislav Klaric will do the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78238	You said that the last government did not invest systematically in the railway and that it was not preparing any projects. You live in the area, so you probably saw that there were as many as 6 power lines built from the Tribal Waterway through the central traphosic of Melina above Krasica, from the thermal power plant in Urinj. That it was built, your government, meanwhile, because it took over the power opened the electric tow station of Sušak-Petina, built a brand-new electric tow station in Plassa. Systemically invested, but since 2000, the railroad has been destroyed. On the other hand, you mentioned that the road construction was going according to a plan designed by President Racan without diminishing his role in the construction of Dalmatia I will remind you, and I remember well because I was in the military in Perusic when I was proud to see President Tudjman when he opened the first tube of the Tuhobić tunnel on the Zagreb-Rijek highway, and I will mention the tunnel of St. The time when they laughed that the shampoos would be grown inside. I'm talking about something else, and this isn't a criticism to this government, but I'm talking about something that's systematically happening, about the layoffs of workers, about a river rail that's been in the '80s, in the early '90s, driving as it was four times as much as it is driving now. And I'm talking about changing the electric tow station, I'm talking about the Slovenians taking over most of our port cargo that has far less gas than the port of Rijeka, copper onion. I'm talking about the fact that there are still those on the Slovenian railways who are called colleagues who will help me with the art signals, and yet they carry more than we do. It is a system that leads nothing until the railway is reorganised in the way it was organised before with a far smaller number of employees, with smaller resources and systematic investment with strategic documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78239	The replica matches the respected Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78240	Dear counterpart Klaric, here I will first comment on those stone foundations that you are proud of, so these are those stone foundations that could not be found after so many years when they started doing business on the highway or on the construction of the tunnel. So much for the cornerstones some laid. And how much the HDZ Government had in mind to do anything about the HZ project is one piece of information, and how much the Government of Ivica Racan or the coalition government thought about it because it knew that when we finished a cycle that concerned the highway and Croatian roads transport infrastructure that would have to start with rail infrastructure, because the fact that the government had already passed a law on which money was released from the price of gasoline to invest in railway infrastructure or projects. That the HDZ government would not be able to stop that provision until a month after it came to power after the coalition government. So much for what HDZ actually thought, and that's the real indicator, in general, of Croatian railways.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78241	Next replica, the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78242	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Members, thank you for explaining to me what someone thought when they said something, but I do have my say about it if someone's sentences need two, three people explain what they even think when they say something. You mentioned a couple of times the expression debauchery. I'm not entering your inter-party bickering, but don't you think that the defilement of both the Parliament and the parliamentary representatives and you as chairman of the board is the fact that the minister can't appear at the board's meeting for two years? And I also appreciate your local patriotism for the river pool, but I will remind you that ever since the case I mentioned happened during this government, that Luka Rijeka was blocked, that I HZ Cargo had failed but also Luka Rijeka because of the railway prison carried out by HZ infrastructure. In all normal regulated countries, these two companies, which were in fact part of a single system, would coordinate if they needed to extend that prison while the burden was withdrawn. And we were paying rent for foreign wagons, a delay in the delivery of cargo and more shipmen. And when you mention the relationship to HZ, the very fact that HZ's assets are given to a private person I don't mind if someone is going to invest private capital, a healthy private capital that exists and invest it in HZ or invest in something. But if we give the private to our assets, the funds bought by the citizens of this country, owned by this state, if they're going to license someone to take down another state-owned company, then it's not normal for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78243	Time. Thank you. Replication response. No, we don't have an answer. Then the last replica, Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78244	Here's my colleague, Tyrelli. You said that the government of Ivica Racan had designed and realized the highway, the highway, and that everything was done after that. The president of your party Mr. Cacic mocked the beginning of works on the St. Roc tunnel saying that they could plant mushrooms there, and also... The highway works began in Long Beach in 89 to stop for two years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If that's how it's prepared, why didn't the work start immediately. So for two years, nothing happened on the highway. And in 89, works began in Dugopolje.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78245	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the DC club and independent Martincevic and Balojevic will speak highly respected Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78246	Dear Mr. Vice President, honourable government representatives, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, I'll start a little chronologically. The process of liberalising the railway sector in our country began long ago in 2003 with the adoption of the Law on Railways and when it was the first time that a legal assumption was created for the opening of the rail market through the establishment of a special body for the regulation of market, rail services. Afterwards, the Law on the Agency for the Regulatory of the Railway Markets has been adopted, which has practically created a legal framework to enable that independent regulatory body to function in the area of rail services to better monitor the operation of a railway service facility. Of course, it also provides access to all stakeholders in the rail market under equal conditions, ensuring professional and efficient operation of the regulation of the rail market. We have practically just continued the process of harmonising domestic legislation with that of the European Union. On 21 November 2012, a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union on the establishment of a single European railway space was adopted, which is uniquely governed by the scope of the European Union rail transport and the area of regulation of market and rail services. That directive has been largely incorporated, i.e. transposed into the new Law on Railways, and beyond that legal framework, the provisions governing exactly the area of regulation of the rail market and which, by adopting this law, should be fully regulated in the area of regulation of the rail market, which will be able to fully and functionally and organisationally follow the requirements of the European market and ensure the efficiency and economic sustainability of rail services. Now, given that it is a European directive, one would say that everything has already been decided and that we are now at all discussing and practically having nothing more to say as Parliamentarians than simply to translate the directives into this legal text. However, I would like to say this, two months ago, the fourth railway package contained for Croatian railways was practically a fateful provision at the first reading in front of Europarliamentaries in Strasbourg. We have no information here that our European parliamentarians have debated and what they represent, what views they have made, have they even made? These are some of the things that we are saying here that it may be necessary to link the work of our European parliamentarians to our debates here. I do not think that now our dozens of parliamentarians will change the policy of the European Union but surely there must be some attitude, there must be some knowledge of what they are saying there especially because this area is extremely important, it determines fate, the further fate of the Croatian Railways. And I think that in that sense, it would be very helpful if such an cooperation, and that is what I think and commitment in some way established. When it comes to the merger of agencies, it is already known in the public and here, often in the activities of the agencies on the teeth and us parliamentarians, we remove them, transform them, connect them, separate them. And this Agency for the Regulatory of the Railway Markets has been experiencing criticism in this Parliament, protecting against the monopoly in a country where rail services are practically provided by a single company, so it seemed rather absurd. But here now, after these opening acts, practically and by adopting these directives, this agency seems to be starting to make sense to me. And otherwise, this entire system of independent regulators should always be kept in the eye and always questioned and questioned, established control of the legality of their work, responsibility for action in accordance with the legal powers, it is necessary, I think consistent with Croatian traditions and models to determine the relationship of exactly such independent regulators and government, that is so-called. political surveillance, then central government, it's so-called administrative supervision and ensure effective judicial oversight in order to protect constitutional rights and freedoms. And that means precisely determining what activities, at which levels exactly independent regulators such as this body can be established. I'm just gonna remind you of something that this body shouldn't become. American administrative science formulated so-called. The theory of prey by which the agencies, for a number of reasons among them, are constantly circulating experts between regulators and industry, sooner or later they come under the supervision of precisely those who should be controlled and supervised. I really wouldn't want that to happen to this agency as an independent regulatory body. The rail market in our country is based on the assumption of the principle of separation of infrastructure managers from railway undertakings, the principle of independence of the basic functions of infrastructure managers, the definition of railway infrastructure as public goods in general use which all under the same conditions can benefit from the principles of competition, the principle of transparency, the principle of equality of participation in the market. The Agency shall, as an independent regulatory body, ensure that market rules are respected in practice by providing legal protection to the person who declares the complaint by overseeing the situation on the market under official duty and intervening his measures in the sense of ensuring the rule of law. The liberalisation of the market now implies removing obstacles to the possibility of open and non-discriminatory operation of rail transport under equal conditions. Therefore, the task of this agency is to provide all participants with equal and non-discriminatory business. European experiences in this regard show good results, e.g. in the UK, Sweden, Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, where such regulatory bodies have been introduced, in these countries the share of rail transport in total traffic has increased. However, these are large and powerful countries. On the way from monopoly to competition, we have an agency, so it's some kind of guard, a dog guard of equality and non-discrimination, and from these rules of these great countries practically needs to pull out good things, but also get out what's wrong and learn from mistakes. Therefore, in these Croatian conditions, the objective of the regulatory body should be to develop rail infrastructure, but also to enable operators to have equal access to rail infrastructure. I think the role of the regulatory body and the agency should be both educational and active. If, for example, The role of the Agency should be e.g. and train judges who do not know the rail system and the railway regulations. You have a situation today that when there is a court case, and these proceedings in this new time that is ahead of us will certainly be more and more, practically a judge through the process itself learns, learns about the laws and rules. Therefore, it is clear that in the procedure against the great carrier we will surely face, who have teams of highly specialised lawyers, for example the regulatory body absolutely which has perhaps few employees is not at all in an equal position. Therefore, decisions taken by the regulatory authority, decisions taken by the court, we believe, should be made available, visible, public, solutions to specific cases, useful information should be made available to all interested parties, but e.g. and the countries in the neighborhood through which the operator drives. Since the adoption of this law practically opens up a whole new dimension in which large players enter this area, which will practically eat small fish, the role of this agency and this whole legislative area is very important, for these reasons we will support the adoption of this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78247	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78248	Dear colleagues, you've used quite a lot of this and the termology from the bass because you said "faithful as a dog", then "fish," etc. But, well, we're not going to talk about it, but I wanted to talk about the court proceedings that will take place, so more actively with the agency that will be united into this other one, etc. And in doing so, you said that there would also be inexperience, let me say judges, but there are also court experts in that, therefore, traffic-defyers. For example, in hospitals, in medicine, unfortunately the institution can't, its lawyer can't, usually engage in the form of intellectual services that we see in the budgets, the cost of intellectual services, lawyers engage, and they actually get a good basis for good income on such charges. What I wanted to say in your first part of the presentation is that I do not know if any of our 12 representatives in the European Parliament are involved in the Committee on Transport or Transit. So on that committee that then dictates the plenary session of the solution and on the railway and you say the 4th pack, I don't know if anyone's involved. I was able to leave when I was an observer of this committee and then I learned the sad fact that no European corridor passes through Croatia, even this 10th time Zagreb-Vinkovci-Shid-Belgrade and he is no longer a pan-European corridor, so no corridor goes anymore but only so-called. Auxiliary corridors through Croatia, this former 10.pa and this 5B according to the river or 5C through Osijek-Ploche-Sarajevo etc. so that we are actually a railway periphery even though we say we are an integrated railway Europe market but we are still a periphery for railways in Europe. And that's what's sad and what also hurts me like you didn't even make it through our MPs to do anything more favourable. Through Slovenia passes the corridor towards Trieste towards Venice, Budapest but through Croatia no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78249	The answer is not to the replica Vesna Skara Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78250	... our parliamentarians, which I also mentioned in my speech. [[Speech is not enabled.]] I think it's very important. And here I was saying that the 4th railway package was, and at 3 a.m., we didn't participate at all because we didn't have our own parliamentarians, but now in this 4st. Two months ago, in the first reading, that 4th railway package I don't know, a colleague here spoke the same thing about him as an important package. What matters is what our Europarliamentaries say if they say anything, and I believe they're talking there, it's important that there's some kind of communication between us here when we're discussing things that concern this topic and them in the europarliament. And I would really like that kind of connection and institutional through this Parliament to become. And the other thing is you here is practically when it comes to courts, judges and court proceedings when you enter foreign carriers and when they start complaining about the decisions of the regulatory agencies and when they bring their top lawyers, I only warn that it will be chaos here, the agency will start to lose its disputes, decisions will start to be made that will be negative for the citizens of this country, and perhaps positive for the large carriers. In this context, it is important to train judges, train agency employees, make available and European legal practice in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78251	Second replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78252	Dear colleagues of Škara Ozbolt in your speech you spoke about how rail traffic has grown to me, France, England, I mention Japan, but in order not to create a false impression there is not the traffic of growth due to regulatory agencies, certainly not, but because the governments of these countries had a traffic strategy because they are taking care of railways. Regulatory agencies are the point on i. Indeed, someone who is uninvited will think that these regulatory bodies you often mentioned in your speech are independent of being truly independent, but they cannot be independent if they are selected by key party membership. We remember here in the Croatian Assembly of scandals that took place a year ago it seems to me that perhaps more, which is when the head man of HAKOM was elected, when he received the first negative assessment on the parent body, and at the second meeting of that same body he received a positive assessment because such a directive came from the top, or from the government. This is an example of our regulatory bodies, I repeat the honor of the exceptions that should not be done, and these regulatory bodies do not perform their basic function. Regulatory bodies are actually a cover for a few dozen people who have been hired to arrest it and mostly do not do what they should do. with these regulatory bodies too much to be united and it is necessary to reduce the number of employees as I just said before, that railway workers can get fired, and every time we change this law, we say no clerk will get fired.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78253	Final minutes belong to Deputy Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Minister Zdenko Antesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78254	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. Here, allow me a few words at the end of this debate. In fact, the essence of this whole story is that the Croatian government started fiscal consolidation measures in 2014 and that is one of the reasons why this law is proposed by two regulatory agencies. Of course there were and the discussion went broad enough in terms of the subject, the problem of the Croatian Railways which is so extensive and wide that it is quite logical. There have also been some vivid associations throughout the discussion spectrum, but there have been extremely high-quality discussions very constructive where on behalf of the ministry I thank and I believe that many of these suggestions will find their place in the future work of the ministry. In order not to remain in the air, it is said by HDZ representatives that one of the more important reasons why they will not support this law is that it will not be combined, which is not to be joined by the Agency for the Regulatory of the Competition with the Agency for Safety. So that's two incompatible agencies. They are simply impossible to connect by, but they are already connected by regulatory agencies, i.e. sectoral or same rank agencies. So it's totally incompatible stuff. So, I mean just to keep it clean, so there's nothing in the air that's unclear. In fact, it was mentioned that the association, therefore with the football jargon, was often used by our player as, alluding to the Croatian railway that was to be trained for an international game because a player such as, alluding to this disabled or unprepared for the competition can of course not be expected to win in that international sharp game of good results. Well, here, I can personally testify as a former railroadman. So I left the railroad in 1985 and then, that year, the transformation of the drag system ended up in the Moravicas. Last year, i.e. 2012 the system was completed and was connected into a unique system of electrical pulls 25 kilovolts, to Rijeka. So here's to '85. until 2013 it was 40 kilometers or 50 kilometers of track. Why am I saying that? I'm saying this because the railroad as a system is systematically neglected. It is systematically negligible, in fact completely unwarranted and we know for ourselves that the railroad is the flow of every economy, every state. And unfortunately today we have the situation we're in. We have entered the European Union, we have to deal with EU regulations, so free market, free flow of services and goods. And it's impossible for a situation to happen today as was the rule that for years the railroad is given here in particular about a billion kuna a year to be thrown into the wind. So, a billion kunas a year, and as a result, we have broken stripes, rotten thresholds, a contact network that is what it is, etc., etc. And of course here's the time now when, after the road construction program is finished almost all the time it's with the state to seriously deal with the railroad. And in that sense, in order not to leave anything in the air, I would just list a few of the specific things that have been made, that is, in progress regarding building railway infrastructure. So what's been done in these two years and five months, not full five months of this government about the railroad? So, before I mentioned the completion of the ectro pull, from Moravica to Rijeka. Then the project of reconstruction and reconstruction of the Vinkovci-Tovarnik railways was completed, a 60m-euro state border. The system of signal-safety devices at Zagreb-Vajni Kolodvor was completed in the amount of 11.4 million... Of the works under way, the reconstruction and reconstruction of the Okucani-Novska railway section of 35.86m euros is planned to complete by the end of this year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then, the ongoing competitions, which is the construction of the second railway section of the Dugo Selo-Križevci, 198m euros, are negotiated works and an attitude in early 2015, is planned to end in 2018. Then, the construction of the new railroad builds St. Ivan Žabno of 32.4m euros, works and supervision are being negotiated during this year and the completion of the works is planned in 2017. From the design, or preparation that is under way, because we need to know, anyone serious who discusses serious projects for the preparation of the railway project, road infrastructure, and any other serious project takes time. And that in the past it was more of a preparation and less of some activities that had a little bit more, which were so slightly more politically cost-effective, that instead we would probably have a completely different situation in the rail system today. So let me just mention from the design, so from the preparation of the documentation that is under way, and of course also about EU co-financing, so we're talking about co-financing from the funds, which is the reconstruction and construction of the second track on the Long Selo-Novinska, the first, second and third phases. This is a project which, therefore, weighs EUR 572 million and the design is planned by the end of 2016 and the start of physical works in 2017. Then the construction of the 2nd track section of the Križevci-Koprivnica railway, the state border of 275m euros. Then construction of the new two-way line Goljak – Skradnik of 650m euros. Then the reconstruction and construction of the second line of shares of Hrvatski Leskovac – Karlovac, amounting to 356 million euros. Then reconstruction and electrification of the Zapresic-Zabok railway section of 68m euros. Then the reconstruction and electrification of the Vinkovci-Vukovar section of 51.5m euros. And a 550,000-euro railway safety agency building. So we're talking about projects that are under way, designing, preparing for future work. All these projects according to this dynamic, therefore their start of physical performance is planned in 2015, 2016 and 2017. So until then, we need to prepare all the documentation. Of the projects which, therefore to be financed from the National Programme, are therefore designed from the budget of the Republic of Croatia to build a new railway Subsident – Samobor. So this line of ours is 90 million euros. Then, the GSM project with a central traffic management of 200m euros and calls for projects with the help of the EU co-financing, reconstruction and reconstruction of the Okucani-Vinkovci railway section of 355m euros and national funding, thus building a 200m-euro central traffic management system. Here's why it was, why I thought it was necessary to say it. The railroad as a system that has been neglected for years, I think it is devoid of national importance that it does not deserve to be mocked by it, but I think it would be much better, much wiser to put our heads together and put all together and enable it to be our player, as our player on the demanding international market, to play and achieve certain results. Of course you can't do that. So you can't do it overnight, you can't do it fast. Because to repeat that last sentence once again that there were activities that were not currently so politically cost-effective in the short term and that instead invested in the preparation, designing would have made the situation on the railway a lot different today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78255	We're moving on to replicas. First Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78256	Thank you very much. So I'm gonna start with this at the end of what you said, let's put our heads together. In order to put heads together, we must have them there first, and the minister is never there. So he ignores everything he's told from here. Ignoring even this private capital involvement, call capital that has not brought any capital at all, but benefits all the assets that already exist, which are owned by HH. I agree with you that the system has been ignored for many years. And then you say a billion kunas are thrown into the wind. What about the responsible? What about the former HZ Cargo administration you replaced? Where is the responsibility of this administration? What are the indicators for the period when they were in charge? Do an analysis, ask yourself a question. You don't have to answer us, you're ignoring us anyway. What about their responsibility? Building infrastructure, or projects that you've listed, I'm taking off my hat. But among other things, the reconstruction of Sisak Station. I warned you, don't do that. It's an '80s project. Now you're on your way to work, all the works stopped because they're archaeological excavations. First, there is no longer a need for such a station, on the other hand, all down there are Roman excavations. Remont rails to Sisak. I'm stressing that railroad because I'm off that track. Remount the tracks all but the passes and bridges. You've been driving people for three months with buses in the middle of that heat. There aren't enough buses, it's, it's what's real, it's life. There aren't enough buses, you're putting people on a hundred people on a bus. And then it happens after that the remont is closed, the tracks are up, the speed raised on the entire stock except for the misses, the misses and the bridges. And then let's do it again. So much for how it works and how it treats the railroad. And I'm the last one here to make fun of the railroad and muddy the railroad, but unfortunately I have to be honest and say, [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] The ministry's relationship to the railroad is just debauchery. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78257	Second replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78258	Well, I'll start where my colleague Novak ended up. I don't think anyone here was making fun of the railroad, but making fun of the reality and the authority that mocks all of us. You said one sentence I don't understand. You said the state should take serious care of the railroad. Now you realize that after two and a half years. The basic question that several colleagues here spoke of is the low-level railway according to Rijeka, which is one of the most significant investment announced in several Governments, which depends on the fate of the Rijeka port that has been announced. The first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Cacic, announced that this would be done. He even spoke stages, drew charts for us, etc. You haven't said anything about it, what it is, what fate. You said projects should be prepared for all of this. And tell me, how far did this project go? What's going to happen to the river line? Why did it give up or maybe it didn't give up? Why the public doesn't know anything about it and why we don't get to realize at all what the government is going to do with the railroad strategy to see which one was announced last year that it will be completed by the second month of this year. However, there will already be a summer vacation in Parliament, we did not get that strategy. So, we're not making fun of each other, we're talking facts here, and one of the facts I'm going to tell you now from Pula train leaves at 22.45 and comes to Trieste at 7 a.m. In 1938, that train drove for two hours. Those slogans that Hrg previously read, those slogans, they talk enough about the seriousness of this government, about the government's seriousness towards the railroad.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78259	Third replica, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78260	Thank you very much. I will now proceed to what my colleague Vuksic said in the end. So it was not a mockery that really were sentences that students exchanged and wrote probably in this section when the slogans were sought, and in fact I said it was the situation in the Croatian Railways, that it describes the situation in the Croatian Railways. But I didn't answer for it. In fact, you said there was more work to be done to make it better today. I must say that I remember this railway Long Village-Krysevci when the first time former Prime Minister Mrs Kosor mentioned it on the European Day or European Week as it was called, and then I was very happy to go back to the Križevci as what we will get that second rail track. After that, it was said to be the most prepared project for funding from European funds. We joined the EU, and now at the end when all this was done, the contest failed, the competition had to be repeated. Is there a former government responsible for such things? So, a situation like this is definitely not good and simply no one here was talking about something bad in the railways but was there any concern that such a law would contribute even worse to the situation of the Croatian Railways? It's an emergency. You say he won't, you say you want it to develop so you understand that problem yourself, I'm glad. And I believe that you can then claim with certainty that this law will improve the preservation of Croatian railways and the preservation of jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78261	Replica, Ante Jerolimov.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78262	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Antesic, you were saying what this government did in HH, so I'd just supplement you a little bit because you forgot some things. The fact that you experienced a debacle with the Romanian takeover of Cargo, that you abolished 22 railway lines, that you reduced the timetables to 340, that you had employees 6440 at the end of 2012, that the number fell by 1000, and this year for 500, that you abolished those who stayed and regress and Christmas and stimulation, that they lost two days of vacation. And what the citizens think we heard here. And I'd just like to add more because there's a lot of slogans that don't talk about HZ, they're talking about HZ leadership under this government. So, for example, "No climate in the summer, no heat in winter," "Always slow," "We're not late, time is rushing," "It's important to participate." That's a picture of HZ leadership under this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78263	Replica, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78264	Thank you very much. So I'm going to get into the fifth car in this replica composition of the secretary of state, actually Deputy Minister. Mr. Antesic would have been good if you'd said that these projects that were made to start sometime before and it would have been good to say that the railways... In fact, certain shares were the ones that pulled the most money from pre-accession funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, one key question is whether we have been strategically prepared to finance the railways most from the EU funds. That's the key question. And we can fight here as much as we want, life will neither start nor end with one government. And if we look at it this way you haven't done anything, we've done anything, and we can talk about billions here in one way or another HH are in the situation they are in. But you obviously missed the game you're going to. You're ready for football, and you're done for football. And in the meantime, you bought a colossium from DIOKI which is worthless, but at the same time to the city railway that would connect Long Village-Velika Gorica-Zaprešić, and tomorrow this railway Zagreb-Velika Gorica-Sisak to be the real public transport of Croatian citizens, you cannot see it in any strategic document of HZ. And this is a very cost-effective line because if you say some of these are invaluable, these are lines that are certainly worth it for 15 years, and this has been shown to you by the city railway Long Village-City Zagreb, which is very useful and is very cost-effective. And if we were to discuss such topics, then surely the debate would be a little different in this House. But you obviously stare at the facts, you have something you haven't done and you say you've done but you've also given 2.5 billion guarantees and it's those skeletons from the closet that will show up tomorrow to another government because for such some skeletons you've been saying that she left the former government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78265	Replica, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78266	Thank you very much. Well, dear Deputy, I'm one big part of your final speech, but he doesn't have one logical sequence. You said in your discussion when you started to list what was finished so you listed a few investments then you said that to prepare project documentation to start building something takes a few years. And then you said there was a waste of money in the wind before that. Then it has nothing to do with each other. Because if someone hadn't prepared something in time, you wouldn't have finished anything in these two years. You're now preparing something to end someone else and it's a process that lasts. And in that part we can only agree that there may have been errors, I said it in my speech, but there is a continuing concern. And there was no throwing money into the wind. That's why we can't accept that story about someone making fun of each other. We are not in opposition, as representatives of the citizens, to open a competition for the slogan. That's what management called it. I guess she was thinking about what she was doing. Maybe she was thinking about the creativity of Croatian citizens, students, and they took advantage of it. Maybe they're taking a good picture of the situation, maybe it doesn't fit this authority, but we can't say that we're making fun of each other here. We spoke very seriously, we stated what we think and how we should do it, we even invited, what you said we all put our heads together, but for that we should have transparency, you have to have a partner on the other side that we can all talk about properly, and we unfortunately don't have that partner because the minister doesn't want to come to the the thematic session, he doesn't want to listen to what's being told from the opposition, he doesn't want to think about what we're talking about and what we're offering and there's no transparency. And that is why it would be good if we put all this on, in one conclusion that no matter what this law does not resolve it, the issue of Croatian Railways is also given the support of the Croatian Assembly through certain bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78267	Time. And the last replica, Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78268	Dear Vice President, Assistant Minister, you said there was a systematic need to determine that the projects were not being prepared. I will remind you of something that the previous government has launched, but supported the Primorje-Gorski County and the City of Rijeka, is financing spatial integrated studies, traffic-integrated studies of the Primorje-Gorski County where the corridors are drawn, and I haven't heard from you to design something under those corridors that are drawn there. And there was invested about 8 million kunas, in spatial planning documentation blocked all these corridors through all the units of local self-government she was going through. As for other investment in rail infrastructure and projects that have been under way, and what you have said has been made so far by Vinkovac, of electrical settings for this, changes in the system pulls. Someone's funded it and someone's prepared that file and it's an honor you've done it and done it. And it's good to do it systematically. We from this position are neither criticizing nor mocking, although everyone who spoke has expressed concern about the state of the railway and most of all for the reasons of relations with the workers on that railway so the minister who is not here, is not on the board so that we board members can talk to him this way, simply does not give us a different model of conversation about this problem than here for the Assembly speaker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78269	We'll stop working now. We'll continue at 3:00 a.m. on the new agenda. Party at 13.25pm.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78270	Final proposal of the Law on Regulation of the Railway Market, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 655 The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like the representative of the motionary, the respected deputy minister of transport, maritime and infrastructure Zdenko Antesic to take note of the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives. Here you go, Deputy Minister. Amendment No 1 to Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78271	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78272	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No 2 to Article 16.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78273	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78274	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No 3 to Article 23
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78275	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78276	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 82 votes in favour, 30 votes against the adopted Law on the regulation of the rail market in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78277	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] We'll discuss four. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 654 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Minister Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78278	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Here, in this morning's presentation, we were actually talking about this law, and it's actually that argument that was about the law under the first item of the agenda, it's almost identical to that of this law. Namely, just one sentence. This is therefore one of the fiscal, governmental fiscal consolidation measures with fiscal impact in 2014, which means the rationalisation and merger of agencies that streamline the structure and business of agencies, i.e. the Railway Regulation Agency is attached to Hakom. The common business space, joint general jobs, the same number of employees, relevant services and economic activities are used together and is projected to save around 2.3 million in 2014 and around 3.5 million kuna in the coming years. This enables joint regulation of functions for all three markets, so it is telecommunications, mail and railways and synergies of horizontal cross-sectoral use of the necessary knowledge, skills, competences of the legal and economic profession. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78279	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleagues Grubisic and Cain are not present, so they lose the right to debate on this point. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, colleague Branko Vukšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78280	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, Honored colleagues and colleagues. The question is always when we talk about red tape, when we talk about agencies, when we talk about councils, and always the same conclusion that we have too much red tape, that we're too bureaucratic. If you remember after six months, the first Croatian Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Cacic, admitted to this pay phone that the government is losing the battle with red tape. Many governments, not only the Croatian government, are losing the battle with bureaucracy where it is one skeletal system that is very difficult to change. And there wouldn't be 260,000 people too many and there wouldn't be too many, just 200 councils and agencies to have that system working. That these agencies work, that the councils work, that the bureaucratic apparatus works and is at the service of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, that it is not an obstacle to investment but to help Croatia have as much investment as possible. So, however, our system is not working, it is bureaucracy that prevents me from always using this synonym state, although... it says, the state is a lie, that the state is not being effective, that the government is not being effective. So today we are discussing, here we are fully agreeing with Mr. Antesic, there should be a united debate, in fact everything we have spoken in the first item of the agenda is also true for this one, now we are talking about the Amendment Law and the Supplements of the Law on Electronic Communications, it actually refers only to the fact that the two agencies are joining together. However, a question has now been asked by colleagues before me whether it is logical to connect the two agencies or whether they need to be connected by another key, according to another criterion. I spoke to this speaker several times so it would be logical to connect the transmitters and the connections, HACOM and the electronic media agency. For a number of reasons, because they are engaged in identical affairs, because they are formed illogically and because they are also partly their purpose and their budgets, their prices are, say, no one has explained why the transmitters and connections charge HRT 120 million kuna and by which we came by calculation, then they are reduced by 20 million, so now there is now some sort of payment of the Transmitter and the link to HRT seems to me somewhere around 100 million kuna. When we talk about savings, it is said here that we will save in this proposal that we will save by joining two agencies 3 million kuna. I'm asking you nicely, do you remember the hacom debate when we discussed hacom, do you remember how much rent it is, how much it costs to rent space for hacom? Heavy millions. If you were to calculate how much HACOM has paid for the rent so far, I think if it wasn't now for 2, 3 years it would be worth buying that space and being the owner of that space. When I was discussing HACOM, then I called the State's Attorney's Office, which normally only hunts political dead people, we'll see if they'll continue to hunt down political dead people or do business as they should, to review all the rents paid to public money, all the rents. To review why so much of the empty state space or space of local self-government stands empty, while the state is renting very expensive spaces and imagine it in the most modern, modern buildings and preconditions, it was then an affair about buying furniture. Remember, there were reports, we shared on the benches of parliamentary representatives because we got in the Committee on Information, Information and Media applications that were in the drawer. And today, no one has shown themselves about these applications, so my claim remains that the institutions of those who should be doing their job are not doing their job. So this merger itself by me is actually a merger of water and oil, actually something that is incompatible. They say someone has read before it seems to me that Mr. Sagar, that in some other countries the agencies are connected to the same system. You should just say which dates these agencies are from because there are many regulated states that don't change the laws every week and they don't work every week on a new structure and they don't do it without any strategy. Well, there we know that in many countries, Western democratic laws have existed for hundreds of years, and judicial practice itself regulates them. In this law, it says "the adoption of this law and the establishment of a regulation body for the rail market has continued the process of harmonising domestic legislation". The word harmonisation does not fit in the Croatian reality. What is harmonising in Croatia is that what we are now adopting harmonisation means harmonising domestic legislation with EU regulations. It is certain that the EU has not ordered the two agencies to join together. We need to have regulatory bodies, as it will be called, as it will merge we need to regulate markets, not merge in this way. The other thing is that I mentioned it earlier in replicas and here is the deputy minister said it remains the same number of employees. So we're going to save for the salaries of the head of an agency, the deputy head of the agency, and that's all that's been done. Have those agencies been restructured? What model was taken? How will they work? What's gonna get better? What is improving or really a question of 3 million? The lease of HACOM space if it would be abolished if HACOM were to be placed in rooms the owner of which was the state would have saved significantly more. If the state were to control, in fact, if the Parliament were to control what the agencies were doing, then the agencies would either work or be abolished. A lot of agencies don't make sense. Just remember when we discussed the agencies that said we've been working for three years we're not teamed up yet, what you're doing, we're doing nothing, they're getting paid. The agency we're talking about right now, and it's about the railroad, if it wasn't for her, no one would have felt she was gone. What HACOM is doing is absolutely certain that it was an assessment by Croatian Labourists to work outside its obligations, it is probably working within its capabilities and within orders from the top. I repeat, remember the way Hacom's first man was chosen. And I remind you of the scandal that broke out at the time. And then it seems to me that the vice president of the SDP Parliament has also left the session bitterly in the way it was carried out. So there wasn't even consent in the Kukurik coalition. But there seems to be an invisible force in Croatia that imposes human resources, and that came from a man chosen by Ivo Sanader. Sometimes. No matter what criminal charges there are. And now someone wants to convince us that there will be a harmonic situation after they merge. The only thing that's true is that they're harmonically pulling us by the nose. Such a bill is certain that Croatian laborers cannot support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78281	Thank you. The replica of counterpart Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78282	Thank you. You reminded me when it comes to space that you should actually see with counterpart Antesic whether they will now all fit in the space he has paid so far, now it will be twice as much. I think there's 17 of them, if I'm not wrong about the monthly rental. Or now another 100,000 euros will have to be paid monthly rent in that tower in which HACOM has been located so far. I think it would be a good question to get that answer so that we can draw a line of final costs to which this merger will lead, whether those with those costs will be bigger, smaller. And I say if somehow they'll succeed when these others come together to squeeze them into that little space that Hacom's been in so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78283	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78284	Dear fellow Đurovic, so I don't think it's a problem in renting space because when I talked about space it's always interesting that in the newest buildings, built buildings that should otherwise stare empty about state institutions because there's too much state space nobody wants to move into. I think I have the right to doubt that there are contracts with private companies for renting space because there are some percentages under the table that we have the right to doubt but we have no proof of that. That's why I asked the state's attorney's office to reconsider all the contracts. The contracts are not, what will be done, yes, new parking spaces will be rented because they can't be members of that connected agency without parking spaces, they can't park, they can't fight for parking places around the building, they must have them in it. If they don't have enough space, exactly by standard they'll get another floor and eventually it'll turn out that we won't burn 3 million kunas, but we'll lose 6. But no matter how cheap it is now, it's still too expensive.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78285	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78286	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will support the adoption of amendments to this law. One of the measures initiated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and is part of the reform and other fiscal consolidation measures for the period 2014 to 2016 is the rationalisation and merger of agencies. This measure implies a system of rationalisation of state and public administration through the merger of agencies, funds and institutions outside the State Treasury system and in line with the guidelines of economic and fiscal policy for the period 2014 to 2016 adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2013. As part of the implementation of this measure, this law proposes the accession of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency, the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency. HACOM has the longest experience in the Republic of Croatia in sectoral regulation. The area of electronic communication is governed by the Law on Electronic Communications, which entered into force on 1 July 2008 and three amendments to that law in 2011, 2012, 2013. The legal representatives of HACOM who performed regulatory exist in electronic communications were: the Croatian Telecommunications Agency, the Telecommunications Council and the Telecommunications Office. Special attention in the context of the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the European Union in the field of electronic communications has been paid to institutional strengthening, ensuring independence and independence and the effective achievement of the regulatory tasks of the national regulatory authority in electronic communications. Croatian Posting and Electronic Communications Agency HACOM which also performs the tasks and national regulatory authorities in the field of postal services in accordance with the applicable postal service regulations. The 2008 Electronic Communications Act brought together regulatory transactions in electronic communications and postal services modelled by most Member States of the European Union in order to achieve additional synergy, to strengthen the administrative and financial capacity of the common regulatory body and to build a system of knowledge, skills and competences needed for the provision of regulatory services in the markets of electronic communications networks and services as well as in the postal service market. This started the process of building a multi-sectoral regulatory body in the Republic of Croatia. In 2007, the Agency for the Regulation of the Market in Railway Services was established by the Agency Act establishing a legal framework to enable the achievement of the functions of an independent regulatory body in the field of rail services with a view to better supervision of railway market operators, which enabled non-discriminatory access to all participants in the rail market under equal conditions and ensured professional and effective operation of the services market regulation of railway services with public authority. The adoption of Directive 2012/34 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 in the establishment of a single European railway space that is uniquely governed by the European Union's rail transport area and the area of regulation of the rail market in order to adopt it into national legislation has been approached by the adoption of new laws in the area of rail transport. This directive has mostly already been adopted by the new Law on Railways. Its provisions governing the regulation of the railway market will be adopted by the new Law on the regulation of the rail market, which is in progress compared to the procedure for the adoption of this law, which will fully regulate the scope of the regulation of the rail market in order to fully monitor the requirements of the single European market in a functional and organisational manner, and ensure the efficiency and economic sustainability of rail services. A new single independent regulatory agency, the Croatian Network Activities Regulatory Agency, which is created by the accession of the ARCU to HAKOM, with existing competence and jobs, becomes responsible for the regulation of the rail market. This ensures the continuation of the operation of the regulatory body in the field of rail services in a modified and economically more acceptable design form, which will allow conditions for more efficient and rational operation of the single regulatory body. It is proposed that the resources for the work of the single regulatory authority shall be provided from the compensation for the performance of the tasks of the regulatory authority which will be mandatory to pay participants in the rail market according to the same principle as the means to perform the tasks of the regulatory body in the field of regulation of the electronic communications market and postal services markets are today provided from the means of compensation paid by participants in those markets. This way of financing a single regulatory body with the rationalisation of its structure and business will generate savings in the state budget of around 2.3 million kuna in 2014, and in estimated amounts of three and a half million kuna in 2015, 2016. The creation of a single Croatian Network Activities Regulatory Agency, which would maintain the existing short name in legal traffic, HAKOM will achieve the following effects: rationalisation of the structure and business, further reduction of the costs of regulation of the electronic communications market, postal and rail services, the provision of a common regulatory function for all three markets, the synergy of horizontal cross-sectoral use of the necessary knowledge, skills and competences from the legal and economic profession, where the technological part of the knowledge and competence remains separate within the specific HACOM structural units. The way to further strengthen the independence of market regulators in the Republic of Croatia is, above all, the installation of a common concept of market regulator in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, modelled by the CNB, which has the only constitutional legitimacy of all market regulators. Next, the adoption of a specific law on market regulators defining the status and role of regulators, as well as the preservation and dissemination of the rights and obligations of regulators, as well as the launch of the process of consolidation of market regulators according to three models either simultaneously or simultaneously. The first model of a multi-sector market regulator to unite HACOM, ARCU and HERA. The second model of the HACOM/AM convergence market regulator and the third model of the HACOM function market regulator plus AZTN. For each model, various possible ways of deciding councils and professional service organisations are also envisaged, and there are international experiences in EU countries. Finally, it should be pointed out that the adoption of this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications, together with the new Law on Regulation of the Market for Railway Services, is implemented by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by one of the fiscal consolidation measures with fiscal effect in 2014 and integrated by increasing the efficiency of the system of national regulatory authorities and raising the quality of services provided to citizens and economic operators in the markets of electronic communications, postal services and rail services in changed economic and social circumstances. This law also further specify the provisions governing the implementation of the functions of covert surveillance of electronic communications networks and services in line with the latest developments in technology. The SDP club supports the adoption of this legal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78287	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78288	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs. I would actually join those who have mentioned that perhaps given that it is actually working practically on the same thing through two laws to be equally effective, and perhaps faster that in one process we have actually solved these two proposals in one reading. But since that's not the case, then I'm going to refer to what I did before, and I'm going to add something else out of the way so far that I don't repeat myself. As far as this material is concerned, it is interesting that this agency, the Croatian Network Activity Regulatory Agency, will keep HACOM short. So, a new agency, such as a brand HACOM, a Croatian brand, although this shortcut will no longer reflect the name of the agency itself. And the effects that will be achieved as wrote by the Proposer in this bill will therefore be rationalised by the structure and business, further reduction of the costs of market regulation, both of them and of third-party services. Under three enable joint ex ante regulatory functions. This is the third effect to be achieved. And the fourth effect to be achieved by this proposal is the synergy of horizontal cross-sectoral application of the necessary knowledge, skills and competences from the legal and economic profession. So these are the four extraordinary effects that are achieved by this proposal. These last two I think in this way that you really shouldn't be in law proposals, because nobody should be acting smart, so you should put together some Latin statements that are actually given in Croatian in normal words and indicate without such verbal acrobatics that most often actually tries to hide the lack of real content. Saving the merger agencies, if the savings exist we're always for saving the merger agencies. And if there is a commitment from the government to bring together those agencies that regulate network activities in the Republic of Croatia, we will support it. Connect them to five, six, so online in this country some other sectors have been set up, as well as the electricity market and the gas market and traffic and air traffic regulation as well as rail, postal, telecommunications and services. And if we can save 50 million kunas in this country as far as we're concerned, shut down 15 agencies and have it called one agency, let it be one agency with a reduced number of people doing the regulatory work of these current 15 agencies. What is the weakness of this proposal, which it actually occurs for only one reason because it is from a minister who can then connect only these two agencies because they are from his portfolio, and it cannot connect any other agencies that could be done but they no longer belong to his portfolio. Of course, when we have a government with 20 ministries. A small country, a poor, overindebted, small number of inhabitants, one of the smallest European states but one of the countries with the highest number of state ministries. Many can't even afford to have private ministries of culture, private ministries of transport and larger countries than Croatia, but of course Croatia can afford it. So then, in a decomposed wet system, you're actually coming here with a proposal to merge the only two agencies that you from your portfolio can actually propose, and those from other resolutions of other ministries can't even be found in the proposal. Today we could have a proposal to merge 6 regulatory agencies that regulate network areas of network-organised activities in the area of the Republic of Croatia. And six agencies can disappear from today and there will be one agency with a reduced number of employees, with reduced consumption, with joint services and the like. Although I am not mistaken and, if I remember correctly, Minister Bauk announced that he would actually deal with the government by joining agencies and reducing their numbers, by rationalising them, and here you are now coming on behalf of one ministry and with one proposal, and in fact from his resolution on the merger of two agencies, that is, what you can do. It's a shame that we've actually been working all day together with these two agencies. I would be much happier if today we had the order to bring together eight state agencies that would all fit together in those 1,000 squares I think how many HACOMs there are and where we could save a nice 20, 50 or 100 million budget kunas that we don't already have for them every 3 months at very unfavourable interest on the ino markets. Also what is good, it is good that the agency submits a report to the government and the Parliament annually. What is not to the extent that it seems most fortunate to me is the source of funding because the agency in its activities is financed from the funds of compensation, and it amounts to these fees are actually not in any way under the authority of the Croatian Parliament. And I don't see exactly how they're under the authority of the government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Agency remains in place to impose as much as it needs on those who are subject to regulation in these three sectors to which the Agency is engaged. As regards the Agency’s revenues, the Agency retains its revenues and may continue to benefit from those revenues in the following calendar year. I've got to get back to the HANFA, for example. Therefore, HANFA is also an independent regulator of the entire non-banking sector and you here have changed the HANFA Act in such a way that HANFA cannot dispose of funds that it does not spend in one year, or that it already has to return them to the state budget. This regulator is now left with the possibility of keeping the funds. The CNB is left with the possibility of keeping the funds. Each agency, every new institution that is formed, is formed by some very separate regulations, by some quite separate structure and, of course, that in this forest that arises from week to week new institutions, new agencies, new conditions every ministry when it comes here with a proposal comes with some new ideas of what it will look like. These ideas are then implemented through the parliamentary majority. And then, of course, we finally miss the system. Why does this agency retain funds in the following year and the HANFA not retain them but must return them to the budget? Does anyone have a rational explanation for that? It's the same two state regulatory agencies, this one's for network services, it's for the entire non-banking sector, for example. They're even different. One and the other are some state agencies for certain sectors as regulators of certain sectors. So we make them different, they look different, they function differently, they make different incomes, and they have different incomes. And there are examples like that, x-rays. So, I would call not only in this case, but in the event that there is something to be done with the agencies that has already been defined by a whole proposal once, and that agencies that are under certain supervision of certain resolution ministries are not only amannet of these resolution ministries and that it is then tried in fact this situation if it is to be saved, and I think it is finally time that this rationalisation at least in that segment starts to be implemented that this problem is then fully trying to be solved, not through one ministry that offers top-of-head 3 million savings. If those savings are going to happen, what we're just going to see, is that we're actually doing some sort of partial, partial change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78289	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78290	Thank you very much. Comrade Djurovic, you have well noticed that in fact this legislator and in fact the entire government supports one orderly mess. Namely, you've compared the way HANFA and this agency operate. So, HANFA has to return any surplus money to the state budget, this agency doesn't have to, but retains it. This, the controversy between the various agencies actually speaks of that, that there is no government's will for real structural reforms in the state. Twenty ministries and only what you forgot to say were how many ministries or some ministries in relation to countries' ministries with a similar number of residents have more employees than those other countries. Take, for example, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Croatia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for example, Slovenia or Bosnia and Herzegovina, so the country in the environment is two or three times more employees in our ministry, so to our Croatian than in those countries, in Slovenia or Bosnia and Herzegovina. The ministry of agriculture that stands so badly also has twice as many employees, so at the Croatian Ministry of Agriculture as it does. in Slovenia or Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, simply these agencies are invented as parasites to suck up the substrate of the Croatian people and to be synchronised by the ruling and nothing else. The situation was discussed when the end of HDZ rule, when Mrs. Kosor was prime minister, was said to have begun the merger of the agencies, and then was first hit on Ergel in Djakov and Ergel Lipik to join in one, if you remember. It was a horse agency, that's right. So that was first in line. After that, something else came along, but that government fell relatively quickly and we got this new government that does the same thing, though not for horses but the number of agencies remained the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78291	Thank you. The reply to the replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78292	So when we talk about network activity, if one regulatory agency is controlled by railways and mobiles or electronic communications, then you can equally connect the network of electricity, gas and similar activities and shut down these regulators and define all network activities under the supervision of one agency. Where it fulfils the elements of the legal acquis of the European Union and the Directive in such a way as to significantly reduce costs. And I don't mean anything farce than really serious, I mean it. But what's the problem here, so here's the promoter in front of one ministry I can only suggest what's under the supervision of their ministry, so I spoke to twenty ministries. They'd have an idea for sure about some other agencies but they can't suggest, so they're now coming in front of one ministry and those agencies that are under them, here they are saving in the budget of their ministry. And that's why I said before that it was about the Minister of Administration six months ago, a year ago, that he would come out with a motion to streamline the entire system, but we can see that it didn't happen that the proposal didn't exist. Already today, here's something I don't think we're having any problems talking about all day. I just think it's a shame, and it's probably going to be, that actually the number of employees there will be more or less the same. It is necessary to reduce the number of employees and reduce the cost of this country not being able to pay for it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78293	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78294	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Djurovic, I agree with you as well, if it were a rationalisation of the right, then it would be dealt with in a different way. But after this agent, which happened two years back, that we came from 39 agencies to 49 and employ over 1,500 new people in those agencies. It is disputed that they are employed by similarity and that they are ineffective and that they are now creating a problem. So a much bigger problem than this agency, I'm sorry you didn't react because it wasn't any horse agency and don't insult any horses at all, it's number one, because it's embarrassing and it had no such intention whatsoever. But here we should make that rationalization. And you've noticed very well, these 1,500 people, of course no one wants to lose their jobs, but what's this about? The rationalization of the agent and where we came from, nowhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78295	Replication response, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78296	Thank you. I haven't answered, but I appreciate the offer. Because we agree, so I didn't think there was any need for me not to get over it, we totally agree. ... agencies, it would be great if we were in a situation where we weren't, if we had GDP growth, if we had a rise in standards, but we don't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And at the time of this recession, I think it's an obligation for all of us and for the government and all the ministries to simply be spent in all forms of reduction. And it can't be any more, I think, practically, when it comes to these expenditures of the state budget, I don't think anyone can really be out of it, either, including us here present.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78297	And Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78298	Dear counterpart Djurovic, I think you have mentioned in the replica the number of ministries the Croatian government has two, three times now. I mean, I tried to figure out why twenty ministries, the Kukuriku coalition has a lot of competent people, in order for few ministries to hire them all in these ministries and to make the state go much better. At the beginning, you said Minister Bauk had promised to deal with the merger of the agencies, so at the very beginning of the Kukuriku government. Remember, Minister Bauk also promised at the beginning of the term of office to change the electoral legislation, to change the electoral units that are anti-constitutional which the Constitutional Court found, but none of this promise is because illogicalness and unconstitution in Croatia is logical, so it makes sense what is happening now. And that statement of yours is correct, each agency is formed by new different regulations and each agency acts on a different principle. So the question is, how does Hakom keep his profits and how does Hakom have so much profit, and what I'm going to say is that he's penalizing, which he's imposing, which is a lot of pressure, which is, say, local television, so all those who fall under Hakom are convulsing in debt. And now this agency has to rent a large space, for 17 garages, or parking spaces, for surpluses, for organising seminars, for one easy life, and everything else in Croatia is about to die. Here, that's a question that the government won't answer because there could be savings there, and then when we talk about the logic of the merger agencies, then it's absolutely certain that another one would come together, the merger of the agencies themselves, and without the reduction of people, especially those incompetent, doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78299	Replication response, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78300	Yes, he was a handsome example when the Turkish Minister of Tourism and Culture came and met with the Croatian Culture and Croatian Minister of Tourism. It came from a mega-state of Turkey which, I will not speak at all to the extent that it is larger than Croatia and is meeting with two separate Croatian ministers because we are still one country that should have such separate resolutions, we even have a small economy minister, a big economy minister and a minister of the regional economy. We have three ministers dealing with the economy, how much our economy is because one can't do it all. So we're completely unserious, I have to say that we're really unserious and unconscious, still unconscious in our behavior and in our real situation and the moment this country and this society are in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78301	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Josip Boris. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78302	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Deputy Associates. This proposal also provides for the accession of the Railway Market Regulatory Agency to the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency in such a way as to adopt a single national regulatory body for the regulation of the electronic communications markets of postal and rail services. New name, Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities. It is argued that due to the difficult economic situation caused by the multiannual recession, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has launched fiscal consolidation reform measures for the period 2014 to 2016, and one of these measures with fiscal impact in 2014 is also the rationalisation and merger of agencies. Although it is an unnatural merger of technologically different resolutions, unfortunately we in the House are completely powerless to change it, which is why these questions are being asked. A colleague Đurovic is right, why are only those three regulators connected? Electronic communications, postal and rail transport, and not more, so the savings will be higher. And all of this could also be explained in an explanation. However, we at the HDZ Club have a different issue. It is disputed that Article 108 of the applicable Law on Electronic Communications, which regulates the obligations in the field of covert surveillance of electronic communications networks and services, is also amended in such a way as to introduce a provision on the small door to enable the use of covert supervision of some of the services in electronic communications to all bodies authorised to apply covert surveillance measures of electronic communications networks and services. In accordance with the specific laws in the field of national security and criminal proceedings, which are currently SOA and MUP, without the intervention of the operational technical body responsible for the activation and management of the measure of covert surveillance of electronic communications, are shortened OTC. In particular, if this law is adopted, with such amendments to Article 108, it would mean that each of the bodies which have legal powers to apply covert surveillance measures in the electronic communications of SOA, MUP, etc. can be applied to new technologies. These include skypes, vibers, etc. and that the body responsible for the activation and management of those measures would not have the possibility to exercise its laws of the prescribed powers. In addition, those responsible for supervision, means bodies which are competent among other things, and to monitor the implementation of covert surveillance measures in electronic communications, the Office of the National Security Council, the Parliamentary Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Civil Surveillance Council would not be able to carry out such surveillance in an appropriate manner. In practice, no one in the Republic of Croatia would be able to guarantee that the measures of covert surveillance in electronic communications are carried out in the legal manner provided for, thereby opening up a space for illegal activities in this area. I cartoon, supervisory authorities, means the Assembly Committee or the Civil Watch Council may come to all bodies authorised to apply measures and ask each of them in particular whether you have supervised or not authorized someone. They can tell you we did or didn't, and there's no way to determine whether it was legal or not. That's why we've also proposed an amendment. Finally, if there is a desire to have credible information in the implementation of covert surveillance measures affecting the most sensitive constitutional rights of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia such as the secrecy of communication, then those measures must be legally implemented through the authority responsible for the activation and management of the covert surveillance measure of electronic communications, which is therefore set up in one unique place, regardless of the type of technology, electronic communications and future new technology. It is noted that the public debate on the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications, which did not indicate amendments to Article 108. So we had a public hearing from 5th to 20th February 2014. It was on the sides of the Ministry of the Sea, article 108, which changed after a public debate, and apparently it was in someone's interest in an inappropriate way, it did not appear in a public debate, it only appeared at a cabinet session. For what? We don't know. Who was it in the interest of? Obviously, there may be something going on that we don't know, but it would be correct to get that system right. And that is why the HDZ Club cannot support such changes unless the amendment we have proposed is adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78303	Thank you. On behalf of HNS Representatives' Club, counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78304	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy Associates. Well, here's the law, actually, is one ordinary sequence of what we've been discussing all morning. It is therefore a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications in which the Croatian legislation is aligned with the acquis on electronic communications and through the effective achievement of the regulatory tasks of the national regulatory authority in the electronic communications of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency with HACOM. One of the measures taken by the government and the competent ministry, which is related to the difficult economic situation and our fiscal impact in 2014, has come from one of the measures that will, in part, try to correct the situation by rationalising and joining the agency. So we've all heard that announcement through the media, and I think it's been suggested not only that this merger is going to happen but also that there are other mergers between agencies and individual institutions in order to achieve certain savings primarily in the administrations of these bodies and these institutions in most of their salaries, and then at all the other overhead costs which, by using more places where these institutions currently operate, of course have higher costs of directing than telephones, rents, various directors, cars and everything else. And savings are planned specifically in this case of 2.3 million kuna, which at the level of the state budget is not something spectacular but is one small segment of everything we expect to follow through the savings in the merger of both other institutions and state agencies. So we welcome this rationalization here and before me colleagues have discussed that we have a problem in the public administration in this sense that it is neither rational nor effective enough for us. Dragged at one point relatively and well, in fact, by the situation of economic, and necessary to establish certain institutions that had to be established by Croatia's entry into the EU, a whole series of such institutions have been created and relatively high costs have been produced and this is certainly going in this direction to do a certain rationalisation. Of course it's not all that matters if it's purely rational. The point of such institutions is to regulate or to be effective. Of course, this depends not only on this merger move, and it will certainly not establish its own efficiency. Therefore, efficiency should be done in all other ways available, which is primarily by calling on those who manage these institutions to carry out this work in a quality way and to be carried out in the event that they do not carry out it either with responsibility or with sanctions. We are, unfortunately, witnessing that, at times, even unfounded at the address of these HACOM agencies, the complaints come first and foremost, and that some of these complaints were not adequately processed and I as chairman of the board and members of the board had received such warnings on several occasions. I think that when the overall reorganisation and merger of these agencies are done to try something to make them more efficient and to function more transparently and to do their job because it often happens that it means that private operators enter this private market, whether it's mail and telecommunications or in this case railways that will certainly have the same cases in the future so that the private people entering that market don't feel in some way threatened by those who are so far or who now have a monopoly on that market. Because the opening of these markets will also bring new capital to Croatia and new investments, and it is expected to stop a pro-pulsive market, which is expected to have more significant investments. It is extremely important that such institutions function transparently. I also think that what we think in the HNS that what is here is some kind of remark regarding the fact that railways do not belong or regulation of railway services does not fall under this. So I think, or I assume that the profession has said its own, it's about the network, it's about one case of telecommunications network, in the other case of the postal network, in the third case of a traffic network. I believe that, I don't believe it, but I'm sure it's connected to that whole subject. And I believe that it is precisely the experts working in all these agencies who are now separated by their own networking that will also achieve a greater quality of their work or can function in a way that makes these regulatory functions work in a way both preventively. It means that in this sense they will team up and that this synergy will actually improve the quality of work of this agency. Here in this sense, the Croatian People's Party will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78305	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78306	Thank you very much. My colleagues, dear colleagues Đurić-Turina, I have failed in my previous replicas but your debate has served me to express this replica. Namely, you speak as well as the rest of the ruling ones on rationalization. And look, so rationalize the merger agencies. At the same time, in February of this year, we had a very long and heated debate about the State Inspectorate that you are, I'm not going to say quite the verb of which you would express yourself, as the people put it, but you simply dissolved it, understood, the State Inspectorate who was a state inspectorate in a series of smaller ones, I don't know how many inspectorates anymore. So it wasn't the rationalization of unification, it was the fission, the separation of whether or not fusion, this time we're going into fusion, and that's rational. When it comes to inspectorate, we go into fission and it's a rational, very, very strange policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78307	We're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78308	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with his associates. The amendments and additions have already been made to this proposal to unite, i.e. the merger of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency, the Agency for the Regulation of Tourism and Railway Services. Both agencies are regulatory agencies each in their own area. By joining a single independent regulatory agency, the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities, the Government of the Republic of Croatia implements a systematic rationalisation of the state and public administration or implements a fiscal consolidation programme. This should achieve additional synergy effects and strengthen the administrative and financial capacity of the joint regulatory body and assume that even more quickly, a system of specific knowledge, skills and competences for the performance of regulatory tasks in the markets from the activities of those agencies will be better built. However, in addition to possible, or already spoken controversys which could arise in discussions and related to the merger of these two conventions, this topic provides the possibility to talk about both the views of both agencies, i.e. the third activity from the highest Croatian House, the Croatian Parliament, the Agency and the function of the regulatory agencies in general. First, post office services. Postage services have because of their tradition of deep root in the consciousness of most citizens and the very code of mail with yellow background and black letters that even man feels security and stability and continuity, tradition, and even in some way personal identity and connection to the habitation. The post office, especially in smaller places today, has a symbolic meaning of connection with the great world. Today's mails are telegrams, packages, bills, recommended shipments, lifting, sending money, saving. Every little place that has its own mail is not so small, or every single place that has mail is a little bigger. In front of the Croatian Post office, adapting new business conditions is especially the fight on the market with private competition and new communication channels. The challenges are enormous and that Croatia will succeed in resisting them. You can see the shifts, the insistence... e.g. And on the telecommunications market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In my opinion, the post office is one of the few state-owned companies that must exist and survive. The second area of today's bill is the railway. A lot has already been said about railways, complex, expensive, demanding and potentially phenomenally positive transport, and this is positive from every aspect of transport connection, transport security, economic development, ecologicality. The development of rail infrastructure itself is a developmental ecological project, let alone the rest that monitors the overall rail transport services. The great development of rail services in the world of larger and above all in smaller countries gives hope to the development of services of primarily freight transport and then passenger transport. I believe that this part should also enable both domestic and foreign private capital to be explored. And the third area is, the area of electronic technology here is a specific area of electronic communications. The area of electronic communications available to the public is the most developed area of human activity in the world in the last 50 years. These are radio-televisions, all possible tools, channels of computer technology, but also GPS and satellite technology and all other advanced electronic technologies, electronic communications. And all media today, especially electronic, are also more than policy responsible for the ultimate creation and social atmosphere. Electronic media like all other media are responsible for the transfer of elementary information to categorization, the qualification of the value assessment of almost all events in the community. All the media in Croatia today, except HRT, are private and are all naturally turned to profit, and many survive, so they do not choose, or very often choose the public incentive of the lowest passions to achieve circulation, obedience or ratings or to stay on the market at all. But the media also finds out, they put in front of the public all kinds of irregularities, crime and corrupt affairs in the state. These are important adjustments in society necessary for the preservation of true values and a clear definition of society against all irregularities, and to say the mental health of the nation. Teko has been a little over ten years since the actual general use of personal computers in Croatia, internal... Practically the other day, and the most extensive social network Facebook records just over five years of existence and acclamation use with us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Internet communication, e-mail... almost the only kind of written communication. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have made a number of amendments in the Parliament, where in certain laws we determine electronic records, archivals, and with the last application of the Rules of Procedure we have made a rational decision that all documents, and the proposals of the laws, the legislators receive by electronic means. Electronic media, commercial, non-commercial, are slowly taking over the main role in rapid information on daily events. Some of Croatia's best press feathers have crossed from daily and weekly newspapers and written for significant, so-called The new portal. Some of our top intellectuals write articles, have their columns on various portals, many also write their blogs. And finally allow a few sentences of importance in my opinion to regulate the market and the importance of the state in the processes of regulation and control. One of the most important roles of the State is the establishment of the same conditions for all and the control of compliance with these conditions. The state is not here to generate income and the state is not there to be the biggest entrepreneur. The role of the state is not even to be the greatest employer. The state is, in its very nature, a bad entrepreneur, because its role is political and not entrepreneurial, so that the decisions of the state in entrepreneurship policy are anacronic, unlike those of entrepreneurs whose decisions are exclusively entrepreneurial, i.e. Income and it has nothing to do with here often mentioned in neoliberalism. The role of the state is to control and regulate the market and therefore there is a need for regulatory agencies to do so. The freedom of entrepreneurship within the free market framework must be equal and unlimited, and regulatory agencies exist among other things in order to prevent this unfortunate neoliberalism from emerging. Finally, I would like to highlight my personal opinion on the merger of the agencies concerned. The only thing that matters is competence, speed and overall efficiency of the agency or agency. It is clearly an important and reasonable and simple organization. If it's even cheap, it could be an ideal communication. I personally believe that with this merger, the government is actually implementing a systematic rationalisation of the state and public administration, i.e. to implement a fiscal consolidation programme. And that's why I'm voting for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78309	Thank you. We have two replicas, Boro Grubisic. Here's my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78310	Thank you very much. A colleague, Djurekovic, is not he, Blazekovic, a pardon not Djurekovic. So, I listened very carefully to your presentation, and I finally answered the line when you mentioned that the state is not as you said by the employer, or I don't know that it shouldn't be saved in that sense, but that it is actually an advocate of liberal capitalism that should be given full freedom to entrepreneurship, private capital, etc. It is true that we are free market and capitalism, but that the state behaves like a drunk rich man without, under full anesthesia, I would say about the torments of the people and the citizens, about the poverty of the citizens, under the full anesthesia, or the narcosis of not even hearing or seeing how the people live, which slows them down, how the executions go. 380 000 unemployed, a large number of people with their bank account down, etc. 15000 small entrepreneurs in a minus etc. Now that state, it's not a function of the state, and yet it's your country, yours, I'm saying you're in power to do it. She's completely insensitive to that. She's in HEP now buying plasma televisions, before they had rentals, huge rentals of space as well as agencies have. So then it was bought cars that increased consumption by 1.2% in the third month. This is the cause of the increase in consumption and it even boasts Mr. Your Minister of Regional Development. And then now we've got HEP and plasma TV because it's probably the Brazil World Cup. to watch a little bit better while working in the offices of HEP. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78311	Thank you very much. Replication response, Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78312	I didn't speak a word of what you were talking about, so I have nothing to replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78313	And Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78314	Well, nothing like the replica Mr. Grubisic replicated. You told Mr. Blazekovic that the state is a bad master. I think that's the second and third time you've mentioned it. The three countries in Europe prove exactly the opposite, which are the three most developed countries in Europe, which are far greater state-owned than Croatia, which are Scandinavian countries that are by the amount of state ownership far ahead of Croatia are quite successful. This just means that the concept of ownership is not understood and that success is thought to be achieved by giving everything to private owners. Well, it's really questionable when the Social Democratic Government advocates neoliberal capitalism. I guess we're a unique country in the world. But I understand that. All economic portfolios have been taken by the HNS which is a neoliberal party. So there's some logic in that illogicality, but I wonder where the SDP is? He seems to have completely lost the battle for social democracy. After all, social democracy has been betrayed at the level of Europe, so social democracy in Croatia is being issued to us left-wingists.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78315	Replication response, Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78316	I did say I'm still at the point that the state is, in its very nature, a bad entrepreneur because the state is political and it has to make political decisions. And entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship are turned to entrepreneurship and income and make entrepreneurship and income decisions. That's what he said in '89, '90. The year the entire system of state economies fell. Not because some neoliberal liked it, but because the system was bad and inconclusive. And the whole system fell because we on this side of that wall, or curtains, saw that they lived much better on the other side. If it were the other way around, they'd come to us, not us to them. As for the CNS, the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats is not a neoliberal party. The Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats is a liberal party, and the difference between neoliberalism and liberalism stands in various books and encyclopaedias, so read a little.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78317	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78318	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on electronic communications, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 654. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club. I would like the representative of the motionary, respected Deputy Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure Zdenko Antesic to show about the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives. Amendment number one, actually, is the only one.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78319	Thank you very much. The amendment shall not be accepted with the following explanation. The proposed Article 16 of the Law amending Article 108, paragraph 8 of the Electronic Communications Act further obliges operators to allow all the competent authorities referred to in paragraph 3 of that Article to implement measures to remove the coding or encryption of the content of communication. This includes the removal of encoding and new data transfer and speech technologies through IP technology. This allows for the removal of encoding and for the content transmitted by operators from other EU Member States providing their services in the field of the Republic of Croatia and for all other communication content which the operator could not independently remove. Only the OTC shall have the interfaces with all operators in Croatia with the assistance of which traffic data and coded content can be reached, and under specific national security regulations competent to activate and manage covert surveillance measures of electronic communications and to achieve operational technical coordination between operators and bodies authorised to apply covert surveillance measures. Therefore, there is no risk that each of these bodies which have the legal powers to apply covert surveillance measures in electronic communications, namely SOA and the MUP and can apply them independently over new technologies, and that the operational technical body responsible for the activation of the management of those measures, which is the OTC, would not have the possibility to exercise its powers prescribed by law as incorrectly stated in the explanation of the amendment submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78320	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment of the HDZ Club, respected representative Josip Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78321	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Your Honor. We do not dispute the right to introduce surveillance and new communication technologies, on new applications and programmes, but we dispute the right to do so without supervision. And that is why we have proposed an amendment in such a form because this is what you have proposed in the form of the law. So you avoid the body that's responsible for tracking all those in the surveillance program, which is OTC. Article 108 leaves such a possibility and cannot be determined later by any body capable of conducting supervision or by the Office of the National Security Council, nor by the Parliamentary Committee on Internal Policy and National Security will be able to determine with certainty whether a person has been authorised or unauthorized. That's why I'm saying we're saying that there will be possible abuses that leave one legal crack that can be misused, the more we learnt some news yesterday because one of our fellow Members of Parliament has accused the Prime Minister of misappropriating the service and the possibility of unauthorized monitoring. We believe that new technologies such as Viber, Scipe can be misused in this way in monitoring, and we will not be able to determine with certainty whether any of the responsible in the MAP in SOA followed someone because of avoiding the Operational Technical Centre. That is why we are asking for a vote on this amendment because it is a very important issue and we do not want it to be a misunderstanding later if such abuses happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78322	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement about the amendment of the HDZ Representatives' Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm in the middle of a debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes were 83 votes in favour and 30 votes against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications in the text, as proposed by the Proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78323	We'll discuss 5. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on hydrographic activity, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 663; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. You received their reports at the session. Introducing the draft law, Deputy Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Minister Mr Zdenko Antešić will explain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78324	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. The main objective of the amendment of this law is to ensure regular and uninterrupted investment in the sea and coastal areas, with high standards of safety at sea and protection of the marine environment through an increase in the availability of quality hydrographic services necessary for the purpose of spatial planning, construction and safe operation of other human activities at sea, which will be achieved by introducing a national standard of official hydrographic measurement and cartographic activities by applying the certification institute of official hydrographic measurements. By liberalising and regulating the hydrographic activity market and by defining the transparent obligations of the investor of construction operations and the authorisation of concessions on maritime good with regard to official hydrographic measurement. Within 3 years of the entry into force of this law, the situation in the sea space will be regulated and all existing facilities in the sea space will be mapped out in official maps and publications, which will significantly affect the safety of human life and property at sea as well as the investment climate. The International Convention on the Law of the Sea of 1982, Article 24(2) obliges the Republic of Croatia as a coastal state to publish in an appropriate manner any threat to navigation in its territorial sea known to it. Furthermore, the International Convention on the Protection of Human Life at Sea, so-called SOLAS 1974 in Chapter 5 of Regulation 10 establishes the obligations of signatories in respect of hydrographic activities involving hydrographic measurement and cartographic and other publishing activities guaranteeing the safety of navigation. In addition to the Maritime Code, the Law on Hydrographic Activity is the basic normative place for those obligations to be met. The Act on Hydrographic Activity has been in force since 20 May 1998 and regulates the content of hydrographic activity, conditions and method of performance and activity, as well as the basic legal personality of the Croatian Hydrographic Institute for the performance and activity of interest for the Republic of Croatia. So far, the application of the law has pointed to the need for its partial amendments and additions. Due to the legal gaps of the existing law, a significant number of procedures in the marine space, seabed and coastal seabed which are changing the hydrographic features of this area and today is not listed in the official maritime navigation maps or is contained in official navigational publications, which presents a systemic problem on safety, safety of navigation, protection of the marine environment and sea management and a seabed which significantly contributes to the risk of human lives and property at sea. The underlying problem is the fact that investors operate in marine space as part of an existing normative solution and do not have the availability of transparent and complete services. Official hydrographic changes necessary for the planning, design, implementation and publication of procedures in the sea and coastal area necessary for the safety of human life and property at sea in accordance with the obligations of the Republic of Croatia under international contracts. The basic shortcomings of the existing law and the proposed solutions are as follows: today there is no national standard of hydrographic and cartographic activity already applicable guidelines and recommendations of the international hydrographic organisation which are of a dispositive nature, and this proposal introduces a legal basis for establishing a congenital national hydrographic and cartographic standard through a sublegal act which transparently determines obligations in hydrographic and cartographic activities at sea. The existing law does not provide for a clear obligation by the investor or holder of procedures in the maritime space with regard to official hydrographic measurements, nor does it provide a transparent list of objects whose measurement and publication in official maps and publications is mandatory. The obligations of the holder of procedures in practice so far have been determined by the solutions, consent and special conditions of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure and the port captains in the procedures of issuing local and construction permits and by the approval and consent of operations and activities at sea from the basis of the general provisions of the Maritime Law and the Port Capabilities Act on a single basis, taking into account the indicative guidelines of the international hydrographic organisation. This proposal therefore sets out the rights and obligations of investors in the area of sea, seabed and submarines in terms of official hydrographic measurements in a systematic manner in an integrated and transparent manner. The existing normative solution allows other legal entities to carry out, in addition to the Croatian Hydrographic Institute, specific hydrographic tasks, as a rule, exclusively in the depth of the sea, with special authorisation, but the law does not allow the results of these hydrographic measurements to be included in official maritime and navigation karate and publications. Because the official measurements are performed exclusively by the public institution Croatian hydrographic institute. This proposal provides for systematic and standardised implementation of hydrographic activity for the needs of spatial planning, construction and other human activities at sea through further liberalisation of hydrographic activity, opening up the possibility of authorising legal persons and natural persons of craftsmen as a rule of geodetic companies to carry out official hydrographic measurement operations under conditions of compliance with the relevant professional and technical standards to be regulated by an appropriate sublaw. The implementation of the existing law found that hydrographic measurements were carried out by authorised legal entities authorised to measure the depths are significantly below the standards of the international hydrographic organisation and that investors use them exclusively for design purposes rather than for the measurements of the state of play. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The maritime code has been established that acts of spatial arrangement for operations in the sea and coastal areas must contain and be based on official hydrographic and oceanological data, this proposal ensures that the authorised legal person provides the investor with the full service of the official hydrographic measurement which is guaranteed by the verification of hydrographic measurements carried out in the administrative procedure by the Croatian Hydrographic Institute. In addition to this, the bill proposes the following measures: fluctuating the provisions relating to the establishment and maintenance of the hydrographic, information and marine cataster in order to improve the application and control of the provisions of the law, as well as the creation of fundamental eyewitnesses necessary for the management of the marine area, seabed and seabed, as well as the basis for the electronic exchange of data on the structure of the marine infrastructure of spatial data. In accordance with the Law on national spatial data infrastructure. Then, an increase in transparency through the introduction of a public tender institute in the process of appointing the director of the institute. And niveling the inspection and misdemeanor provisions. To implement this law, additional funding must be provided in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for the employment of 3 employees of the Croatian Hydrographic Institute during 2015. Given that it introduces a new administrative procedure for the verification of hydrographic dimensions as public authority, representing a expenditure of 300,000 kuna, with additional expenditures for employees to be planned within the limit to be allocated for the period 2015-2017. As regards revenue in accordance with the draft law, the cost of the verification procedure carried out by the Croatian Hydrographic Institute shall be borne by the requesting party, the payment of the verification fee which is the intended revenue of the Croatian Hydrographic Institute used exclusively to cover the costs incurred in the verification procedures. If and costs relate to the travel expenses of employees, official travel, field work and the like. This revenue is not expected in the current year while a significant increase of around 2 million kuna per year is expected in the coming years. This revenue also represents the expenditure of the state budget. The draft law provides for the adoption of a Regulation on Consent with the Ministry of Finance, which will provide for a more detailed level of compensation as well as the types of costs of the Croatian Hydrographic Institute which can be financed from the basic and the compensation. In addition to that income, revenue from administrative fees is expected as a result of the procedure for the verification to be implemented in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act. Finally, in addition to the draft law, the following measures are proposed, an increase in transparency through the introduction of a public tender institute in the process of appointing the Director of the Institute and the novelty of the provisions on the inspection finding and the novelty of the infringement provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78325	Thank you very much. Davor's Mlakar replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78326	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here we had the opportunity to hear this report read by the deputy minister, I tried to follow, and unfortunately I didn't hear what I was most interested in, and it concerns the form of law making other than these metric things for which they were being brought. But I also heard about the appointment of a director who I think you named two months ago, so I don't know why you're doing something to regulate this law right now. But in your opening statement, Mr. Deputy, you said that the law that we are about to amend is now in force since 1998 and that in its application he is suffering objections that need to be arranged. My basic question to you, which you have not touched with your opening argument, tell me one single reason for the provisions of the Parliamentary Rules of Procedure why the amendments to this law are being adopted by an urgent procedure? If the law has been in force since '98, if you follow the law and you've been in office for 2.5 years now, why are we now passing this law by emergency procedure? What is so urgent, and given the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament that this law cannot be passed in two readings?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78327	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In Croatian Labourist-Stranke works colleague Mladen Novak. And you could have made an emergency complaint about the adoption of the agenda. Here you go, colleague Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78328	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Associates. Well, I'll be brief. In any case, the committee said that the law was as much as a colleague of the Mlakar said since '98. I have to admit, this hasn't been in my eyes by now, but it's really weird after so many years that she has to go into emergency procedure now. But I'm going to ask that question that's been asked on the board, and we've got an answer, although to be honest with me, it wasn't very convincing at all. Do the amendments to this law have anything to do with these studies that are currently being conducted? Perhaps there is an answer to this question that the colleague of the Mlakar has now asked, which is why the emergency procedure. The persuasions were, it had nothing to do with it. Given the experience we have, I'm putting both hands in the fire to trust them. Speaking of which, he may not be in a direct relationship, but he is. Today in the media very convenient information, the Italians reacted to the mass killing of dolphins, their experts, their media, their politicians rose to their feet, all the dolphin damage on the drums, claimed the resulting studies the Croatian side conducted on the Croatian side of the Adriatic. How many of us sitting here, and we should know something like that, how many of us even have any idea about it? Where we heard it except that it was transmitted from foreign media where it had obviously already caused a little more noise. When it comes to this law, I will repeat about the debate that my colleague Vuksic had just before in the individual debate, the only individual debate that was about liberalisation, so I will repeat to everyone the well-known position of Croatian Labourists that we are against the liberalisation of any state activities, state affairs to transfer it to or from some private people, which in practice, especially lately means that it is suitable. A long time ago, I said from this pay phone that in my opinion any privatisation of some of the state's public affairs that the state has done in public function, as well as corruption of the political elites. It is only a question of whether we will ever discover it or not or whether we will find out about it or whether the institutions that are doing their job will ever come to know it or not. I also believe that I will have understanding by the proposings, and I base my belief on the expected understanding on the discussion at the previous two points when we found that rationalisation and saving is the reason for the merger of the two agencies. On this basis, we propose an amendment, so in this amendment, the amendment to Article 17, and in that amendment we propose that with 8 members, as provided for by the Governing Council Act, we go to 5. It's not pure demagogue now, but it's an absurd situation if the five ministries have to be represented by one, so they're from one government, that's one government. And logic tells me that there is some coordination between these ministries, between these interested bodies, but it's obvious that they don't even work in the same body, so now we've got two representatives back from the same ministry for failure. And I seem to be a little overly optimistic when I expect the two ministries to cooperate. We also suggest that one member be elected by employees. It makes sense that it's a man who's from the profession, because it's certainly the ones who have long-time employees who know who, who would eventually get into that story and me, and for the reason that I just mentioned it, I expect that the Proposer will show his understanding of this amendment. We also propose a second amendment to Article 18 where we are essentially asking that a person's director may be appointed to have 10 years of experience in these affairs, in the management of hydrographic activities. And we think it's justifiable, and in the end, if you're putting someone in such a position, then you expect that someone has some long-term experience that is not for the mandate of the same government, so let's do it now and improve it. Here's what I promised I was short. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78329	But you're not finished because you have replicas. My colleague Davorim Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78330	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Novak, I called in a replica first to tell you don't expect understanding regardless of your optimism I'm afraid it won't work and I'm going to give you the reasons for my previous announcement. What you mentioned in your introduction. The government sent a representative to discuss the bill with us. And as you can see, how much the government holds onto this Parliament, here by this famous Rules of Procedure, I will remember yesterday. The plenary session cannot discuss the change and appointment of the finance minister because it did not deserve the plenary session but may, for example, discuss the removal of immunity because of the slander that one of the MPs was invited to appear before the court. So you can also see the government's relationship to Parliament on what happened today, I'm the deputy who so widely explained the need for law-making asked me to tell you one single reason why the law that's been in force since '98. the year should be changed according to the urgent procedure simplest to ignore issues. So here's in this simple discrepancy between our wishes and the real possibilities I'm talking to you about, tell me if you know what this law is about, because the government doesn't know it or doesn't want to say it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78331	The answer to the line of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78332	Here's a thank you for your trust, for the existence of dolphins, probably. I'm kidding, but honestly, I gave you the answer, I really gave you the answer, which is why he's going through an emergency procedure, and he's probably the Deputy Minister, and I expected someone in the debate to point out that he's going to give the answer exactly that way. And with all due respect to the representatives of the ministry but hardly anyone can really believe that it's not, that it's not in a relationship with each other if it's something, I don't know how many years we've mentioned that this law is in force and now it's going into emergency procedure right now, so there's just no other explanation but exactly what I mentioned. And as for my hope of understanding, you can't take that hope from me, I've already experienced in this House that my amendment has been accepted. And I hope to live again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78333	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78334	Dear colleague Novak, you were wondering if we knew anything about the fate of the dolphins about their drums. We don't know anything, of course, but we don't know anything about exploring the Adriatic submersible. We don't know anything about the exploration of hydrocarbons, or of you and the gas, it's wrapped in a veil of secrets. Remember when we talked about this law, here, when we asked the minister about how the government thinks to resolve the situation, which is why one of the business research of the Adriatic is allowed, on which grounds. Which is, is it about taking advantage of those old research INAs and just signing means old documents. Here she is hiding, suspected of justifiable crime to Mount Everest, so high. Cat cough is all the other crimes this is about crime, but it's left to the hands of a few people who decide. The Croatian Parliament does not receive information about this and is hardly entitled to discuss it. And what you were saying about privatization is that it's just a continuation of the poverty of future generations that I'm not saying privatisation of robbery. Governments who don't know anything else are selling out, that means sales. It's the easiest sale and it's not in my hands anymore, so they say now we're gonna sell HZ piece by piece. They're no longer responsible for HH workers. He won't answer to anything else, he'll collect some taxes he'll have. and it will be the only function of future governments.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78335	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78336	Well, the fact is, you obviously misunderstood me. I really asked if any of us knew anything about these researches that resulted from these dolphin deaths. Turns out, I was wondering if you knew anything about dolphin deaths. But it wasn't, it wasn't really my intention. Maybe I got it wrong, too, but good. If it is, here's my mistake. However, this second part of your debate where you mention crime. But I'll mention here a discussion with the board when it was stated that Spectrum was masked that term was used, scientific research carried out seismic research of the Adriatic submersible. And isn't that at least dubious? But if someone who's an expert from that branch not out of seismic research but crime caught up with it, so I'd like to see if someone behind it put a signature and said, this thing is clean, there's no crime. It's the same story as what we did at the first point today when we discussed it's a clean situation,' he gave what with the signing of the assembly as far as I know, and the assembly is one man was assigned state funds to a private to make a competition to the state. If that's it, if there's no crime here, then I'm really sorry, then I'm a little confused. And I'd like someone to say it's, it's clean, I'm behind it. I'd like to hear who's responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78337	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78338	Thank you. Well, as far as this amendment of yours is concerned, the first one about reducing the board of directors seems very good to me, and the second one about ten years of work for the directors of the institute doesn't seem so good to me because it's about the institute, so it's about some kind of, you know, some kind of pre-prime institute and some kind of scientific institution. So this facility has some scientific character, some scientific purpose, some scientific production. If I were to write a criterion for a state institute, then I would rather set the criteria for, for example, that man to have a doctorate in the field of the institute than to be in a leading position for 10 years. Because if he's in a leading position in some institute for 10 years, and he doesn't have any scientific production, then he doesn't have to be the director of the institute. Let him keep doing what he did or go to some company where he'll work. So, I think that when it comes to institutions that should have, therefore, some kind of their own and scientific verification or participation in this area, I think that just the level of education of scientific production and expertise would be much more appropriate criteria than years of work experience. I will also remind you that not only in Croatia, but in many other countries we also have ministers, even in this government who have less than 10 years of employment, let alone in leading positions. The other thing is agencies or some companies again, and the other thing is institutes. I think that should make a difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78339	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78340	Well, in principle, I agree with my colleague, but the thing is, I'm just a shortened version of the amendment being laid out, and assuming that the amendment is already on the benches of all MPs, so let's not get into the details now. But otherwise, the fact that you said it already says it in there, so it's essentially not a major change. But compared to the basic text, the original text, let's say, is the biggest change in just that double rate of internship. And let's be honest, I think all those who are there are already in that story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78341	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HDZ representative club, counterpart Ante Jerolimov. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78342	I thank the vice presidents, colleagues and colleagues. Here, as we have heard before us, is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Hydrographic Activity and this emergency procedure, first and second reading. We also heard the explanation of what it is so as to ensure regular and uninterrupted investment. Well, I'd like to ask what kind of investment this is, how much of this kind of investment is waiting for this law to go on. And I hope then we'd all be willing to pass a law like this if there was such an investment. But I ask Mr. Antesic to answer me after this which investments are on and how many there are. Because the law was passed as we heard in 1998. Some cosmetic changes were made in 2003. It's been 16 years, and we're going into an emergency procedure today after 16 years because in one day this has to be discussed. Not in one day, but in an hour it must be debated and passed such a law. As regards the content of the amendments, it primarily concerns the issue of conducting hydrographic tasks. Up until now, some legal entities could get consent from the Croatian Hydrographic Institute for certain jobs. As a rule, this was exclusively a measure of the depth of the sea, but the problem was that it was not legally possible for these results, research and measurement to be included in official navigation maps and various publications. Because official measurements were authorized by a public institution of the Croatian Hydrographic Institute. So we support this kind of market liberalisation because this has been done so far in individual UPUs and DPUs that have been measured by batimetry just as soon as they can't be implemented in navigation maps. But speaking of the certification procedure by the institute, I would stop for one more moment for another controversial detail that I consider anti-investment. Therefore, the contrary to this reason the applicant proposes, and it is the investor's duty to have the already certified hydrographic elaborate delivered without delay to the Croatian Hydrographic Institute after construction or reconstruction of the building and before its use. Therefore, the investor must deliver a already-confirmed draft by the institute because he had to hand over the draft before construction to be verified by the Institute. Now it's not enough that he turned him in, but he'll have to hand him over again in the end. We think it's just a waste of time for investments he's got on the hood anyway, that it's a build-up of paperwork and administration. And if the legislator is afraid that the investor will make adjustments and procedures in space before using permission in relation to the certified situation, then we can all ask ourselves together what inspection supervision is for? Who will issue such a useful permit? The second element of the law that I would specifically refer to and which is extremely bad and I think you will all agree here that this is bad for Article 11.a, which speaks among other things about the duty of a natural or legal person who manages the port to deliver an official hydrographic measurement in the entire port area to the Croatian hydrographic institute at least once every five years. This is where we from HDZ agree with the criticism of the profession that it is too short in view of the cost of the job, and these are all county and state port administrations in the public debate, and in particular the Dubrovnik-Neretva County Port Authority to make batimetry for their 5 ports, and they have 47, for these 5, it costs 150 thousand kuna without VAT, means a VAT of about 200 thousand kuna. For all 47, it would cost 2 million kunas with VAT. My example and our example from Zadar County where we have 112 ports where the budget of the annual county port administration is 4.7 million kuna shows that every 5, this bill would then be at the level and cost of 6 million kuna. Every 5 years, the County port administration of Zadar County should give 1.5 budgets to measure the depths of the sea in all ports. I don't think that's rational or normal. These are significant amounts for the county port administrations and we believe that a 5-year measure is too rigorous, that it should be increased to a minimum of 10 years and more with the law that port captains retain the right in some specific situations that they can set themselves some shorter periods for the delivery of measurements, i.e. that they can also impose extraordinary measurements if necessary. That this law was quickly made and that it was not even thought about a month, two days ago, shows the fact of the appointment of the head man of the institute. In fact, two months ago, the government appointed in a closed session a new director instead of an ex who had been in office since 1992. Now, with this law 2 months later in Article 35 of the Law, it is said that within 15 days of the date of entry into force of this law, the Government will resolve the former director of the institute and call for a new public tender. The question arises, then, why did this recent appointment of the current director serve? The man acted on duty for two, three months. Or it will be as the deputy minister said publicly, transparently, and honestly, so this one will be named again. Allow me also a few sentences on the transitional and final provisions of the law because they determine a series of duties for the already existing investors. So, investors whose structure or procedure is in use in an area that is not in official cards must report it to the competent captain within a year. In addition, within two years of that, a hydrographic original must be provided to the Institute. In practice, this means additional commitments, a new cost for investors who have gone into investment under different rules of the game. Our government is obviously a trademark of becoming a constant change in the law and conditions of business. The investor respected a law that was in force when moving into business and is now being punished retroactively. No matter how his investment ended, it was successful or unsuccessful and maybe it didn't end. And when we look at it as a whole, then we really don't understand how this law is suitable for investors and for these new investments, but since they're almost done in Croatia over the last two years, there won't be much damage either. Here, I hope that the promoter has heard the HDZ Club's position well, that he will consider and I hope for the interests of both county and port administrations and all others and accept these remarks and give us the opportunity to support this law at that time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78343	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78344	Thank you very much. A colleague of Jerolimov, you spoke about, therefore, the director of this Croatian hydrographic institute, which was appointed two months ago and the competition is being re-scheduled. But what is interesting, and here you have not pointed out, are the conditions written in Article 18 that the director should have. So it's about pre-graduate and graduate college. Now, if someone who has a post-graduate study were to report to the principal's competition, he'd be rejected because that's not what it says here. That's really funny and sad. And every time someone says the institute, then I remember the Paster Institute in France or I don't know any other institute in Switzerland. So I'm thinking it's a very, very highly educated person with a postgraduate study, so it's an academic title. However, here is a lot of pre-graduate and graduate university studies and five years of work experience. For such an institution that, we can also talk about history, it's already meant a lot, and that's what I'm going to say in my speech when I have an individual. I think these are very, very modest terms for the principal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78345	Ante Jerolim's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78346	It may be confusing and funny for you colleagues, Grubisic, but it is very practical. A man has such conditions, probably this man has such conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78347	On behalf of HNS Representatives' Club, counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78348	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, Mr. Deputy with Associates The Croatian People's Party will support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Hydrographic Activity. These amendments and amendments to the law provide for the arrangements of institutes that are essential for more efficient and quality maintenance of hydrographic navigation security at sea. The proposal for this law aims to achieve this through the creation of a basis for defining unconditional national hydrographic and cartographic standards, thus setting out the obligations in hydrographic and cartographic activities at sea transparently. Next, the amendments and additions to the provisions relating to the establishment and reflection of the hydrographic information system and the marine cataster, with a view to more effective application and supervision of the application of the provisions of the laws, as well as the creation of the fundamental eyewitnesses necessary for the management of marine areas, the bottom and the seabed, and the preconditions for electronic data exchange. It also provides a systematic and standardised form of carrying out hydrographic activity for the purposes of spatial planning, construction and other human activities at sea through further liberalisation of hydrographic activity by introducing standards of official hydrographic measurement and hydrographic measurement certification institutes. The Institute's audit also came from the authorisation of legal persons to carry out hydrographic measurement of the sea, marine geodesy and shooting facilities in the coast, sea, seabed and seabed. It is also proposed to provide integrated and transparent determination of the rights and obligations of investors, sea, seabed and seabed procedures in terms of hydrographic measurements in a systematic manner. We believe that this law will also lead to greater transparency through the introduction of a public tender institute in the process of appointing the director of the institute and we believe that the insinuations on this topic are not appropriate since a public tender will be announced and that everyone who has the conditions will have the right to compete on it. There are also fluctuations in the inspection control provision in this bill and also infringing provisions, which is extremely important in order to control the situation in that space. So we believe that the settlement of the situation in the area is generally something that was the decision of this government, and one of the most valuable areas available to the Republic of Croatia is exactly the sea and coastal area as well. And I think we have witnessed for many years that, as in the land work, in the land area in the Republic of Croatia, there is unfortunately still a violation of the laws and procedures in the area that are not within the legislative, legislative frameworks in the Republic of Croatia. And it also happened unfortunately at sea which, of course, if we look at the sea as one particularly valuable resource in the Republic of Croatia and its coast is perhaps even greater damage than in some other places. That is why I believe that the urgency of the procedure is justified and just as we have brought some laws, when we have brought about the settlement of the situation in general in space, we have also brought spatial planning into an emergency procedure. And as for insinuation related to dolphins, since we all have the Internet here, I'm quick on the Internet, so you have about dolphins and what I think Mr. Novak said, in two weeks seven dolphins died in the Adriatic, and it's not like a river of indigenous species in the Adriatic, but blue white dolphins that were found on six different islands from Korčula, Pelješac and Suska, and now look at the great possibility that dolphins seem to die in 6 places in two months on the Adriatic because you have a whole series of news where you have the Black Sea dolphins killing 30 dolphins, so in the Tirana Sea 94, you have a dolphin in America on the eastern coast of 120 dolphins, where all the texts just explored why these dolphins died. So I think that the placement of some of this kind of alarming news, especially when it comes to such numbers, of course that the experts have been involved and that they are investigating why these dolphins who have died, but to place here information that it is that the failure of the company that did the research is responsible for the death of these dolphins is, at the very least, inconclusive from the position of the assembly speaker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78349	Thank you, too. We have one replica of Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78350	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues Turina-Đurić ma Italian scream or shit because of those dolphins which he currently said I would a little in fashion not to disturb us too much. In fact, we need to be more upset that we have a very short memory, and it's just that we've been up until before, so I don't know how long we've been talking about ZERP all the time. All of a sudden here you mentioned the word liberalization of so-called business at sea of private initiative you mentioned to me the company Spectrum etc. and suddenly the law is changed by an emergency procedure. About ZERP no longer mentions, of the Croatian sea protection and economic fishing areas, the Apple boilers where the Italians extract millions of tons and hundreds of thousands of tons of fish, and now they're worried about a few dolphins. So that's not what I'm talking about. But that we as more as a people and as citizens and as advocates do not speak a single word about ZERP but are going to privatize and even seas of wealth. It is also proof that the company Spectrum is selling tickets and that, not the state of Croatia that ordered the survey. So this is also given to a private company called Spectrum to sell to interested customers, private business map sites, and we'll see what kind of gas finds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78351	Thank you, too. Minister Zdenko Antesic's assistant came forward. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78352	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to say a few words since the thought is going through, or the point of the discussion is completely wrong. Namely, these materials that you have all received, including, of course, you HDZ gentlemen, in point 4, write a proposal for the adoption of laws by an urgent procedure where it is explained to the point why. And since it's not necessary to read everything, I'm just going to point out the important things. The maritime code, therefore, is Article 54. Last year's maritime code, adopted last year in this Assembly, found that the acts of spatial arrangements for operations in the area of the coast of internal sea waters, the territorial sea and the epicontinental belt of the Republic of Croatia must be contained and based on official hydrographic and oceanological data. What does that mean? This means that when designing a design base, it must be an official hydrographic map and official hydrographic maps should be issued by the Croatian Hydrographic Institute. So far there has been another practice, so until the amendment and addition of this law was the practice that various project houses that were often not licensed or professionally licensed were making design bases at sea and at sea, and then we had a specific case for which your colleague Boris was extremely familiar, and that was that the height of Luke Stice when it was finished was half a metre higher than it was supposed to be from a reper point, which in itself meant that the seabed was so much shallow, so the entire coast rose half a metre high, and then it implicated the deepening of all this, the cutting of the coast line, etc. With this amendment and the addition of the law, therefore this situation, such a situation is impossible and it was not the only case. Because all these companies, i.e. geodetic companies, will have to give their measurements to the hydrographic institute, and in that case this map will be official and we will find out eventually if anything happens who's to blame. So that's the basic reason and it says it in this and it would be good to get a little bit, I know that you can't about everything in the details of the account, in detail account, however, that's the basic reason for the urgent procedure of passing this law. Because while this law, or this is not, all the designs, so the designs that, and the investments, could be investments that are going to happen, which are going to happen at sea, in the sea and on the coast, are going to have to wait for official, hence official hydrographic maps. And the hydrographic institute itself cannot map so many maps, or so many official maps in such a short time. Another thing that has been said about the obligation to record so-called ports and port areas in the county and port administrations every 5 years, and it is said to be an additional imposition, burden of the problem, etc. We in the current law have an obligation to record every three years. Therefore, this amendment and the addition of the law extends that time limit to 3, to 5 years, so that in certain justified cases the port captains can extend it to 10. So that absolutely doesn't stand. So it's totally wrong thesis. As for the director of the law, the existing one, therefore, was appointed, so the law is as we have said in force since 1998 and he has retired and someone should now be appointed and we are now, by this amendment and by supplementing the law, introducing exactly what we want, a transparent selection of directors in the way of a public tender... And by choosing according to the Law on Institutions [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And just here, let me just say one sentence that, over 20 ports and ports today, we don't have any hydrographic maps, over 20, and we don't talk about aquaculture sites. [[Intruder: Bring the end, please.]] Not to mention how much this means for the safety of sailing into the aquaculture of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78353	Thank you, Deputy. We have two replicas, here's a chance if you missed something to supplement. The first one called Ante Jerolimov, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78354	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Antešić, it writes nicely that the reasons for the urgent procedure are that it is due to ensuring regular and uninterrupted investment in that area in the coastal area, inland seawater, territorial sea and epicontinental belt. Another thing, as far as certain companies' expertise is concerned, and so far it's legal for them to be able to perform and you're right there, but only with consent, so someone gave them that consent, and then you can't say they're either unprofessional or they're like that. If they are inextricable, then ask the question of who gave them such consent to carry out those measurements. You were talking about ports that so far there have been three years of port captainship extended to 10 years. I don't think you in the ministry have any single port recorded, measured backwards for 20 years. Not one, at least, as far as the Zadar area is concerned. And I say it responsibly and I know it. And prescribing to measure something just to measure it, that's nonsense. What you didn't bring down to the directors of the county port administrations to check the depths of their port so that if it was found so layishly on the deck that it had an oscillation to order then measurement, it was spent 150 or I don't know how many thousands of kunas to determine that nothing had changed. Therefore, that remark does not stand for you. And that doesn't even stand if it's '98. it was written for three years that then you 16 years later didn't know better. It can't even stand. What does it matter what happened, we're talking about what and how it's supposed to be?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78355	Thank you. You don't want to answer? Okay. Next replica Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78356	Thank you very much. We all received Mr. Antešić in the Croatian Parliament a book on the problem of Neum and the border at Neum with those two horseshoes as it says here and in connection with the top of the Klek peninsula. And do you know what the explanation and opinion of the Bosnian-Herzegovian side is based on in this book? It is precisely on the measurements and findings of the Croatian Hydrographic Institute, which is very unfavourable for the Republic of Croatia. Now you're talking about irregularities and the situation with Stinica port, I guess in that Arab part, or I don't know where, up in the northern Adriatic. And what about this interstate problem? Which can cause problems in building the Peljesac-land bridge precisely thanks to these findings. No one is infallible and neither is the Croatian hydrographic institute, and especially in this kind of thing. I'll give you Mr. Davorin Rudolph and some more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78357	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club Igor Češek, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78358	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, Deputy Minister with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I have to tell the Deputy Minister that you have a very ungrateful task because first of all, you almost always defend the laws that come from this resolute ministry. Unfortunately, we don't have a chance to see Unwitting Minister Doncic defend the law himself but send you. And here you are probably a scapegoat and I really feel sorry for you for that. Because if he had the strength to defend these laws, he'd be sitting here with us today. However, he does other things. Perhaps the man here grew up on the banks of Zagorje, so he knows nothing about sea and sea. I don't know, and I'm having a hard time talking about this law, but what I notice from the government's session on 24 April was sent this law into the parliamentary procedure on the same day your minister told the media when he was asked a question about the abolition of railway lines towards Slavonia and Slavonia towards Zagreb that he didn't care, nor did he know anything about it. So, we see that on that day he was, the only fun he had was his seafaring, he forgot about the railway lines. A number of ministries and agencies were discussed earlier in the afternoon debate. It might be better in this case if we split this Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure into three parts and we have three ministers because it would probably be less damage for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia if we had three ministers, and this current minister, which includes these three segments to get only one ministry, that ministry that already part of the ministry that already destroyed I'm talking about traffic and infrastructure, or HZ. So, don't libi after he destroyed HH don't feel like touching the sea. As I say myself, it's hard for me to talk about this law, but here in your explanation it's already seen that this is about pure love. Because as you say yourself, the implementation of this law requires additional funding in the state budget for the employment of three employees of the Croatian Hydrographic Institute. There's nothing else here but love. Also, when we talk about the adoption of laws under the urgent procedure of your reasoning in order to ensure regular and uninterrupted investment in that area, while meeting the conditions of safety at sea, it is necessary to urgently introduce a certification institute of official hydrographic dimensions, as well as liberalisation and regulation of the hydrographic activity market. The hydrographic activity in the Republic of Croatia is approximately 200, 208, 210 years old when it first appears. So, after 208 years of hydrographic activity, we today pass the law by emergency procedure in the afternoon debate with the presence of 20, 30 parliamentary deputies. Tomorrow, the law will be passed and enter Croatian legislation at a small door, and it hides a series of death traps for some democracy in the Republic of Croatia. It's about the arrest of members of the Kukuriku coalition and nothing else. At the beginning of the law who goes to read it is the definition of hydrographic activity harmonizes with the international hydrographic organization and that's fine. There's no one against it. However, Article 7 which is amended and which sets out the tasks that other authorised legal entities may perform instead of the Croatian hydrographic institute. So this is also one of the ways corruption can come through a law like this. Furthermore, what we can commend is the establishment of a hydrographic information system, and it is indeed true that all data is available to everyone in one place. That's what we need to pursue in every ministry not just in this. However, competitions, competitions concerning councils and the election of directors are primarily managed by the Administrative Council. The Board of Directors shall comprise the President and seven members from the ranks of the Ministry and the central authorities of the state administration except one member who comes from the ranks of the professional associates of the Institute. So the practical word of the profession cannot come from the institute but from the ranks of the ministry alone. The appointment of directors, completed undergraduate and graduate university studies or integrated undergraduate and graduate university studies or specialist professional studies of natural, technical or social professions, at least five years of working experience in the management of jobs and active knowledge of English. Here we can see from this how wide a range of professional people who can be directors. So the question is, who's going to be the director, because it's really written here extensively. So, it could be someone with higher expertise, with high-end expertise, agronomist, economist, veterinarian, biologist, naturalist. You can see here that it's about the pure entanglement of your members. Furthermore, the Hydrographic Navigation Council has a president and nine members. There's a reduction in members from 13 to 10 for financial savings. Due to financial savings, we reduce the members of the Hydrographic Navigation Council, while at the same time hiring three employees at the Hydrographic Institute. On the one hand, we mention some savings, and on the other hand we hire three more people. But what's most interesting also in the Hydrographic Navigation Council is released by a representative of the Fisherman's Association. So again, the word of the profession cannot be expressed. Why? Well, probably because the Fisherman's Association doesn't support this government's program. And that's why you're deliberately kicking out a representative of the Fisherman's Association. This is a very badly designed law and therefore the HDSB club cannot support it as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78359	Thank you. Comrade Czech, one note. Yesterday was the morning and he was Minister Doncic, so you could use the opportunity to tell him these three minutes what you were saying about him. We have two replicas. Ante Jerolimov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78360	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Chesek, you're right. We sometimes go a little harder towards Mr. Antesic, and he's not there to blame. Even these helpers who are honest people and do their job as best they know and surely understand themselves much more in the problem than the minister himself understands in this part of the sea. You've noticed that they've been kicked out and the fishermen, and here we are, and we disagree. We welcome the introduction of representatives of the Association of Authorised Geodes in the composition of this Council, but we also assess the disseminating of representatives of the Association not only of fishermen but also of boatmen from that council. Why? That is why there is justification for such a need. Fishermen and boaters are permanent users of publications and maps and other documents that are the product of hydrographic measurements.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78361	Thank you. Answer, comrade Chesek, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78362	I agree with you, my colleague, but what practically horrifies the Croatian public is so that I can freely say the prime minister's pretentious statements when a railway line is lifted that he knows nothing or cares about it. So how does he show how much he cares about Croatian citizens? That's an embarrassing statement, for every conviction!
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78363	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78364	Thank you very much. We didn't have a chance to ask Minister Doncic a question yesterday because we only have two questions as a club. So he was Mr. President of the club Salapic and Buric, right. If we could all ask a bunch of questions, we got them. But here, when it comes to this point, then I need a little correction, well-intentioned, so I need the highest degree that is prescribed here in Article 18 is a graduate study of social, natural professions, or technical professions. This means that I am also a natural profession as a doctor, I have 38 years of work experience, I know both English and I could contact the director of the Croatian Hydrographic Institute. There's so much about one job. But when you're already talking about employment then it's very clear as... Ilius Garashanin who said how to win Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They say stone by stone. So the SDP, institution by institution, and so you put your people in, you put the laws by emergency procedure and the new three into the Croatian hydrographic institute, plus your director, etc. And that's how it works all the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78365	Thank you, too. We don't? Is there an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78366	I thank my colleague Grubisic for the correction, here I accept. As far as asking questions are concerned, so clearly, my opposition would like to have an actual morning every week and we have certainly a thousand questions, but unfortunately it's always only 40 answers and that's what doesn't suit us. It suits this government because you can get away with it, and you've been waiting almost six months to ask a question, and then you don't know what's more important and what's a burning topic for Croatian citizens, and you have to amortize it a little bit. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78367	Thank you. Perhaps a reminder from fellow Czechs, there is a business possibility and written reference. So you can write every day, text with ministers all you want. We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the SDP club Ivana Posavec Krivec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78368	Thank you, Vice President, Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In the view of the SDP Club, we have an extremely important law, the Law on Hydrographic Activity, its amendments and the additions that are being made here if you were paying attention through 24 articles that are changing. Croatia is a country that is oriented to the sea, which is a traditional and historical maritime country and certainly hydrographic activity in Croatia should be of high interest and I will even freely say of national interest to the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore important that we discuss here and say that after many years of the law we have amendments, that these changes are also necessary by making Croatia a full member of the EU, and this law has been in force since we heard it many times today in 1998. In order for the procedure to be met, but also to hear what is certainly the goal of this government and the ministry as a proposing, a public debate has been held with an interested public. We are in favour of the text of this bill and we have received completely everything that has come to the public debate, all the proposals, all the complaints, and all the arguments from which it is apparent that many of the things that have been professionally proposed have actually been carried out by the promoter or the proposer through the document that is in front of us today. Is this topic, the topic that needs to be discussed in the emergency procedure? I think he said the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and that through the explanation we received in writing and oral form it is clear that such topics and such points should be discussed in the Croatian Parliament without delay and that they are really important to function. When I said that we are a maritime land and that this is, in any case, one of the essential segments of our interests, we see here our sea and our coast as a particular resource that needs to be used and which should be known to function. It is precisely the task of hydrographic activity, the basic tasks of hydrographic activity that are the establishment of safety of maritime transport but there are other additional tasks that we must not forget and that stem from the UN Convention, which relate to the setting of border at sea, to the management of the marine environment, which is extremely important for us as a tourist country and as a country for sea, the exploitation of the economic zone that has been spoken of here, as well as the management of living and non-living marine resources. Surely these are the opportunities that perhaps during all these years of our independence we have not yet been able to make maximum use of, but as is said here there is an interest in investment, there is an interest in putting all these natural marine resources into operation, and we can do so in agreement with sustainability means using economic natural potentials for economic development. And I actually see that this law is in this direction and it goes to make it possible for all these possible, as the deputy said here, to invest exactly in the period ahead of us and that the legislator of the law of the Republic of Croatia here had a clear and pure intention of what, as the colleague said, perhaps most valuable in the natural location of Croatian natural resources to our coast, our sea of which we are so famous really getting a full and true function. Here, a colleague before me said that the development of hydrographic activity in the Adriatic Sea began a long time ago, adding that it was 208 years ago today. Well, I think it's important to mention, we haven't heard it today. It happened just at the time of the French rule on the Adriatic coast between 1806 and 1809 when French hydrographers made the first prime ministers and determined a magnetic declination or variation for parts of the coast of Boka Kotorska, the surroundings of Dubrovnik between Cavtat and Stone, the surroundings of Sibenik, Zadar, the Pasman Channel, the surroundings of Pula and Pula and Piran. Why do we consider it important in the club, because this tradition places our Croatian hydrographic institute among the 5 oldest institutions in the world of such species. And for this very reason, we believe that there is a need to take extra care of the institute itself and to guide through it everything that is important for the development of hydrographic activity. Because it is precisely the main role in the restoration, i.e. in the performance of hydrographic activity, which is, among other things, the hydrographic measurement of the public institution of the Croatian Hydrographic Institute. And he is, let's not forget one of the members of the international hydrographic organisation that brings together national hydrographic institutions from 80 countries in the world. Here we were most often based on the importance of hydrographic measurements, because the proposaler said in her explanation that the hydrographic measurement is an important segment of safety of the construction of maritime maps, that it is an important segment of the safety of the fleet and that in fact, in this whole story that is ahead of us we want to ensure greater security in the Adriatic Sea, on the Croatian part of the Adriatic Sea. It is in this direction that we welcome all those measures that stem from these amendments and the addition of the law that lies before us today, that we believe that it is crucial that data is harmonised on the map and in other publications with a real and real state in the navigational space. We have some examples from our recent history, here's only one Costa Condoria or something like that may have been negligent, but it's actually a huge disaster and a great tragedy that can cause harmful not only to all those passengers who were but also to the whole country. So in this context, we as tourist, nautical countries should be interested that our sea is safe to sail to all those who want to sail in it. Of course, the important segment in this is the development of tourism, as already mentioned. What adverts are for sailors all over the world become new standards and here with us, in fact, situations happen when we try new data to determine all those changes that occur in space in order to stress that security again. It is important that behind these verified data and recorded data is actually a competent, official, national institution for us in this case an institution of particular importance, we said the Croatian Hydrographic Institute. In this segment, we also welcome in the SDP club the fact that other legal persons can also take measurements but that only official maps, hydrographic maps and official documents can be those issued by the Croatian Hydrographic Institute, and that measurements that are certified by exactly the same. It is important for the safety of navigation in each segment, it is important for new investments. It was right here that it was about when and on what part of the Croatian coast the latest onion measurements were made. There is probably no such detailed data, and therefore it is necessary to accept these provisions offered today in front of us by this new bill that, in shorter time periods, certain revisions should be made because all of us who have at least some contact with this topic know that there are significant changes on the Adriatic coast on its left and on its right. We know how the seas, meaning the seas' influences change and the coasts, and we know what times this is happening, so in any case, it's important to store deposits on the seashore, but unfortunately there is a situation where it's not only the sea's impact that has contributed to the change at the bottom of the sea, but I think there's enough of us here to know the situations that and because of the negligence of the different, which is the physical result of damage or destruction of the Adriatic coast and the Adriatic coast. We have countless examples of coastal flooding, even under, how to put it now, with the agreement of the leader of the local self-government units on the coast, because it is not considering the far-reaching effects of such overfishing that are not recorded in the maritime maps, but it is thinking about how to reach a slightly larger promenade or a slightly larger beach rather than what depth of the seashore is happening. In this context, it is good that every few years, that is, within 3 years of the end of each intervention in space, it is indeed good to record it in the official cards so as not to end up with some problems that people, foreigners or perhaps guests would not be aware of and would have disastrous consequences for the economy and for tourism as well. I don't want to go through a lot of details with the law, but I'm going to be showing myself on a few points that here and my colleagues used to mention and express the position of the SDP club. So it is clear that the hydrographic information system is something that we should primarily welcome if it is a major shift, a positive shift in the fact that we have common united data in one place and that they are first and foremost available that they are official. Furthermore, this bill also provides for compliance with the Law of the Sea and with other laws that we have adopted in the meantime since this law was adopted in force, but is also in line with EU regulations and documents whose full membership we are. When we talk about the choice of director of the Croatian Hydrographic Institute, then we at the SDP club welcome transparency and the way it was decided that this was no longer about the appointment but about the selection of the basis of the public competition. This choice is certainly the standard of a democratic country we live in today and what we want to leave these democratic assets to generations behind us. We have nothing to fear from a public tender that will be conducted by the administrative board of public institutions, from a public tender that will be heard by professional people and I cannot trust my colleague Grubisic to make it happen that someone who has a greater qualification than the one requested will be rejected by this competition so he can only have additional points here because, as you said, you have conditions. Well, I have a lot of us here who have these conditions, but we certainly know who's really capable of doing such an important job in the interest of our country. And when we talk about the board of directors and when we just go back to the definition of what hydrographic activity is, and that is to repeat only in the first sentence, the branch of applied science that includes the measure of the depths of the sea, rivers and lakes, geodetic and other shooting of objects in the coastal sea at sea and the sea floor, marine geodesy, oceanology, etc. Geology, geophysics of the sea then it is quite clear that in the administrative council as well as in the hydrographic and navigation council should be a representative of science. We are talking here about the discipline that came from science, and for us at the SDP club, it's unacceptable to throw out from the board of directors exactly how this amendment that we got on the bench predicts a representative of science because we advocate that everything we do be professional. So we reserve the right to differing thoughts but we think this argument is completely justified. That it is possible to reduce certain representatives and lead to rationalisation in the HYD is a fact and that over the years since this law and circumstances have changed in force, and that this is exactly the kind of council proposal that is now being reduced by three members, we consider it appropriate today to be justifiable. On the other hand, we have discussed that until now, and two months ago, the Government appointed a director of a public institution, and that this will now be the administrative council whose chairman of the administrative council is a member who has been proposed by the restoring ministry. We believe that this is exactly how we ensure the goal we want, which is to make it a great link between the resolution ministry that is responsible for controlling the sea space compared to the institution that needs to be implemented. Given everything said and what the proposer said in the text of the law, we at the SDP club will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78369	Thank you. We have two replicas. Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78370	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues Posavec Krivec, so when I talked about the terms of the competition for the director of the Croatian Hydrographic Institute, then I talked about that only missing maybe pictures, there is everything else. Who would get the minister's consent between me and you, it's quite clear. Well, you certainly wouldn't get me, although we meet the conditions of both you and me, but you need the minister's consent and normally you'll get your consent that's perfectly clear so that's not what this is about. Secondly, you say that for 200 years there is hydrography and more than 200 years 205, 6 of the 1800s French era when Dalmatia won and along with some other parts such as Kordun or French... was named Illyria the whole area to Boka Kotorska. The first hydrographic measurements in Croatia were then set up. So it's not clear to me that neither the French, or the Austro-Hungarian, or the old Yugoslavia or the new Yugoslavia has ever occurred to anyone in that area of sea hydrographic in the valley of honey and milk in the Neretva valley that no one makes a thermal power plant on coal. After 200 years of hydrographics, your government, along with your hydrographics, is your man at the head of the Croatian Institute planning your government to invest hydropower plant on coal as in Birmingham approximately around the time of about 1850 when chimneys were covering and smoke vision of people towards the sky. That's what you plan for our Illyria Napoleon's Illyria or Croatia's southern Croatia. Well, that's terrible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78371	Thank you. Time. Answer, there you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78372	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, it is almost amazing that in every legislative proposal, in every initiative and every idea that would bring improvement, certain progress, given that times have changed, given the circumstances that have changed, given some of the particulars of the Republic of Croatia that I am sure you are in the same effort that I am in, and that Croatia should be part of the EU, that it should be part of the international processes, that you should be part of the transparency you always find a problem, and you never offer a solution. In fact, you're going back to that thesis today whether the glass is half full or the glass is half empty. So if something is right, let's at least find something to spoil it, so we don't move forward. So we have before us a bill that is truly in line with all the needs of the Republic of Croatia and with all the European laws, directives, with today's moment. On the other hand, we have something that has existed for years and that in a particular segment was needed to change. The laws are here to change, to improve and to create better living conditions for citizens in the Republic of Croatia, to ensure investment. That trail to ensure security and investment created this bill as well. And I believe that by the time he's made it, you'll conclude.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78373	Thank you. Next replica Drazen Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78374	Here's my colleague Posavec-Krivec. I've come to you for a replica of your enthusiasm and the thesis that someone who has better conditions of education will safely pass the contest, that there is no doubt there. I was kind of wondering if we were living in the same country, and do you know about cases where someone's going to work in public institutions, and especially in leading places because they have better references, better conditions, years of work experience? And when it comes to a representative of science at the Board of Directors, I would go back to what I said. So why don't we even up the criteria and define, for example, that all state institutes can only be led by people who have PhDs and we've solved the problem. So, the institute isn't an agency, it's not a company. It is some kind of institution that has its scientific function and that as a state we have determined that all institutions, state institutes in the Republic of Croatia can lead only people who have PhDs in these areas would not every time as I said, each time someone would invent some of their criteria depending on the resources from which they come, depending on those people who think there to hire and everyone then to adapt the specific rules of the game to actually those people who think to position there. So, the scientific institution is a doctorate. Agency, company, internship, work references. And it's very simple. You have a representative of science and you have someone who can lead a scientific institution relevant, some institute like a general in the U.S. Army can't be unless there's a doctorate. In Croatia, we had a regiment school. But today 25 years later, even in Croatia, he will no longer become a general unless he has a doctorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78375	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, the guilty one, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78376	Thank you, Vice President. So you see a colleague, we need to distinguish a part of our political work and a part of our professional work. For example, if I were to find myself in a situation where I needed medical intervention, I would certainly be happy to be your patient because the really professional things that are written about you say that you are extremely professional in your work, which you have studied for. I also don't understand why you think the government would be hiding with a bill that was hidden from us behind a public competition. Well, it's the bill that changes the situation for the government to appoint, and when the government appoints, it has much wider hands and regardless of the conditions of the competition than when it's a choice based on a public tender. Two months ago, the government appointed a new director by way of a detachment from the post of former director. And now look at these situations. It is a man who has worked for 31 years at the Croatian Hydrographic Institute. It's a man who's not a member of any political party. It is a man who may be among the 10 most influential people in the profession at European and global level. It is a man who has all the competence to be the director of such an important institution for the Republic of Croatia. It was named by the government, named it the basis of its professional characteristics, not the basis of whether it was a member of any political parties. You see, that's what we're different about. We open up the space of expertise without looking from which color or from which party that waist comes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78377	Thank you. We move to an individual debate, Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78378	Thank you very much. I'll be right back. So there are few such cases, or there are hidden political belongings of those chosen, so they will not enter any political party, and in order to be directors of such institutes or such institutions, without talking about some others who have been publicly and have to join your Kukuriku coalition party to be directors. First we were chosen as non-party, and then they became party after a few months. Don't worry about it. The fact that you're demagoguesting your eyes that people aren't members of your party is another thing. Now. The administrative board of the Institute of the Croatian Hydrographic Institute says it consists or is appointed, there are 8 members of it is one representative of the maritime affairs ministry, which is the chairman of the Governing Council, and the other are members of other ministries. Exactly what my colleague Djurovic said would be good if he was already a member, an employee in the ministry, to at least be a doctor of science, and it would be desirable to be from one of those areas of science that deals with hydrography, oceanography, etc.. When we talk about the Croatian Hydrographic Institute, its activities, its existence, it is clear that it has worked for many years. But here I have said in one replica that it seems to me that I was also given an opinion regarding maps and maps of hydrographics in the region of Neum, in the area of those cherries, in the area of the Klek peninsula, etc. So, there are certain confusions and delusions now in the relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Croatia and about which there is both literature and an explanation in the literature that we have received as parliamentary representatives. Now all of a sudden, we're talking liberalisation here, about the need to boost private investment, the private initiative. And I say that one of us, both before the election and before the election, the apostrophe of ZERP has nothing left. Bosna's paws fall just like ZERP. Now there's a private initiative in fashion. The gents of Spectar have done research and measurements, so they sell these tickets, they have the right to sell, which is what the minister has given them to do. And now here's the president in America and gathers this energy lobby and the Croatian hydrographic institute gives licenses for measuring from and depths of the sea and geodesic bases and everything else that is done in connection with the sea. I think there is a rush to this very urgent procedure, so this government is in a hurry to make the Croatian Hydrographic Institute some kind of scientific and institution that, in the event of the exploitation of the Croatian submarine treasure, would be one relevant factor in measuring all these parameters needed to protect us. My colleague used to say that Croatian hydrographic advantages should be used. And I'd talk more about us knowing how to protect our advantage. That's what we're different about. I know you can't live off the air and that we need, that we need the investments. But we should be very careful about the future of our children, our grandchildren and the future of Croatia. Use now, sell now, give in a private initiative to make the sea a Mexican Gulf. What then of tourism, which makes 16% of the GDP of the Republic of Croatia, 16%, we get to 16%, we start at 8.9, now it's 16%. And how much we'll benefit from that gas exploitation, etc. About gas as energy, so I'd rather, either, I'm convinced all those in the Neretva Valley to be a thermal power plant on gas than oil. Well, I guess that's pretty clear from 200 years of technology. So I don't know what we're talking about, you're not saying. So then you make coal in Dubrovnik, make a coal thermal power plant when it's not in Dubrovnik, and you'll see how many tourists you'll have in Dubrovnik when you build a thermal power plant in Dubrovnik and not in the Neretva valley and in Labin. When you think so. So, about nameing people to the board of directors of the departments best tells today's fact and the data that came out, and many of us didn't even know that the minister of the newly appointed Lalovac, all the honors of Mr. Minister Lalovac were given to all the functions that Minister Linić had, the board of directors, and I don't know either... So this man, by the place of Minister of Finance who is the most responsible place in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I would say so, except for the Prime Minister, I take off my hat, so this man has to break up with 33 other duties given to him by the Prime Minister. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know if you need to read everything that this minister has, which all the obligations, the chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction, the president of the Croatian lottery assembly, a member of the Governing Council of the Agency for, I'm not going to read because it's 33. That is also the name of other ministry people who also have responsibilities, not the only one who has so many duties. The Administrative Council of the Croatian Hydrographic Institute. And as we said here there's another one, you say we're not offering, so we're offering solutions, so we're offering solutions. So come on, name the people with me to say high education, academic title to the board of directors whose profession or at least about the waist. Which will be the Minister of Education at the Croatian Hydrographic Institute. I don't know, now you tell me. Or I don't know the Minister of the Interior, so, even though he's from Split, there he is. So, since it's an emergency procedure. Why the emergency procedure? Well it is obvious that it is a tendency, the intention to change the private and private initiative precisely to what I was talking about at the beginning, the possibility of investing very quickly, very quickly, so that we must change this law immediately and adapt our legislation to what counterpart Češek has already said for a new job of 3 employees at the Croatian Hydrographic Institute. And there's only one thing we don't have pictures of, but I guess we'll soon find out who it is. The old law was passed in 1998, it lasted 16 years with little two changes and now we have a new one. A new one, which has been adopted in order to say, ensures the regular and uninterrupted development of investments in that area, meeting the conditions of safety at sea. It is necessary to introduce an Institute of Verification of official measurements of hydrographic and liberalisation and arrangements of hydrographic activity. That's all it says, the reason for the emergency procedure with the employment of three employees and the new director. That's why the HDSSB club, and not I'm not for the club, I've forgotten, most of the time I'm talking about the club, so I'm not going to plead right now. I won't. I left a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78379	Thank you. We have a replica, Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78380	Oh, thank you. Well, here's a colleague when it comes to human questions, you said it well, but there's an idea. We've got a man, a man is great, he's been working for many years, we've chosen him, so we're not going to set systemically more criteria in which our man wouldn't fit. He's one of 10. Ma Croatia is full of one of 10. We don't have virtually, no offense to anyone, in no segment of science of any of the 10, at least not in the world scales, although many of us are comforted that we're one in 5, one in 7, one in no telling what. But when it comes to that, let's set some system criteria, so we don't now that we have a man. I know neither man nor know nor hear nor see. It's not a question of man. It's a matter of system. No, we'd rather the system adjust to our man than set up a system so try to find a man to appear that meets those criteria. And not to say how many hundreds and hundreds of Croatian scientists and scientists on the Stock Exchange stand, I can't even get as scientific money to work at colleges. But we have people, so we're not going to set any criteria now. And this way of telling the story that the glass is half empty or half full is neither half empty nor half full it is empty and all a few drops remain at the bottom of the glass. That's our glass.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78381	Thank you. Answer, colleague Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78382	Yes, co-worker Djurovic is obviously like-minded about the election, so the director. I really don't even know the name I'm talking about, I don't even know who the director of Croatian hydrographics is or I'm discussing a name or I have anything against those names. But in principle, I'm talking about how to choose because here it says that the director is appointed with the consent of the minister besides all those. So, if we hear from a colleague who spoke from the SDP and I, of course, will be, well, that's quite clear, I guess it would be as surprise as if we would accept the amendment here in the Assembly for about 100 million kuna for Slavonia. That would really be a surprise. So it would be a surprise for me to choose instead of her for the Hydrographic Institute of Directors. About me not having anything more to say, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78383	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78384	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on hydrographic activity, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 663. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, the Croatian Labour Representatives' Club. I would like the representative of the honourable Deputy Minister Zdenko Antesic to declare the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives, Amendment No. 1 to the articles.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78385	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78386	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No 2 to Article 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78387	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78388	Thank you very much. Amendment No 3 to Article 20
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78389	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78390	Thank you very much. Amendment No 4 to Article 23
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78391	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78392	Thank you very much. Amendment No 5 to Article 35
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78393	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78394	Thank you very much. All amendments to the Legislative Committee shall become an integral part of the final draft law. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers to Article 17, Deputy Deputy Minister of Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78395	Thank you very much. The amendment shall not be accepted with the following explanation, Article 17 of the proposal for a law amending Article 33. The law on hydrographic activity does not change the composition of members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Hydrographic Institute in relation to the existing law, since the work of the Governing Council has been carried out so far, and all due to the complex interdisciplinary character of hydrographic activity, the need for the President and 7 members or representatives of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Science, the central authority of the State Administration responsible for Finance, the central authority of the State Administration responsible for the Protection of the Environment, the central authority of the State Administration responsible for Internal Affairs, the central authority of the state administration responsible for geodetic affairs, as well as the representative of the ranks of the professional staff of the Institute in accordance with the provisions of Article 160. The labour law. The reduction in the number of members of the board of directors by the release of representatives of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Science and Technology as proposed by the amendment would make it significantly difficult and slow the work of the Governing Council, as it would deprive the necessary experts in the fields of finance, internal affairs and science, which would, contrary to the desired effect of the amendments caused by the same would reduce the effectiveness of the Governing Council. Although we welcome all initiatives related to the financial savings of the state budget, the Croatian Hydrographic Institute of Financial Savings is realising and can achieve other items of the financial plan in a significantly greater amount than the amounts necessary for the work of the Governing Council, taking into account that an increase in the revenue of the Croatian Hydrographic Institute through the introduction of transparency in investor obligations and through raising investor discipline by introducing a systematic approach to supervision through law enforcement.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78396	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, Mladen Novak. Dear Representative Mladen Novak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78397	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The Croatian Labour Club submitted an amendment with a proposal to reduce the number of board members from 8 to 5. There remain four representatives, four ministries, four government representatives. The financial impact has just been mentioned by the esteemed Deputy Minister, but we believe that it is unserious, first there is no need for such a massive body, this has proved to be the case. On the other hand, if there is no coordination between members of the Government, it will hardly be achieved on such a body as the Administrative Council. On the other hand, we propose that the right of employees in this institute stemming from the Labour Act to have their own representative elected by them in the Governing Council. I don't know what makes the difference, which is why the employees of this institute are not allowed what comes from the Labour Act to have the right to their representative in the board. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78398	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment No. 1. The Croatian Labour Representatives' Club, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 2 of the same club of representatives, the Honored Deputy Minister on Article 18
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78399	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment shall not be accepted with the following explanation. The amendment proposed the appointment of the Director of the Croatian Hydrographic Institute by the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not comply with the principles of the Law on the System of State Administration. The responsibility for the safety of navigation and thus the maintenance of hydrographic navigation security is at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, which is responsible for the full application of the Convention on the Safety of Human Life and Property at Sea in this respect. In this respect, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure should have the ability to manage a public institution established to carry out these tasks, including the selection process of the Director. The appointment of directors by the Governing Council of the Croatian Hydrographic Institute, as foreseen by the draft law, ensures greater efficiency in the procedure carried out by the Administrative Board as regards selection of a quality candidate. The amendment proposed the responsibility of the Director of the Croatian Hydrographic Institute to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, together with the responsibility of the Governing Council appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is too high because it establishes parallel lines of responsibility for the same authority. The proposed law lays down the condition of previous working experience for the selection of directors as management and professional head of the Croatian Hydrographic Institute at the level of five years of working experience on management tasks, in accordance with the standards applicable to the State Service for the level of senior managers in which it is appropriate to classify and position as director of a public institution. Given that the hydrographic activity of interdisciplinary character includes the application and technical and social and natural sciences, it is not justified to limit the previous work experience for the selection of directors as professional and... Head of the Croatian Hydrographic Institute exclusively on the work experience in hydrographic activity as proposed by the amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Moreover, the amendment proposes to narrow down the choice of directors to only a few professionals available in the Republic of Croatia, which is not a sustainable solution in the long term that guarantees the development of hydrographic activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78400	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78401	Thank you very much. Well, from your explanation, it's obvious that it takes wide-ranging working masses to allow them to approach, to be candidates for this place. So I'd like everything right now is for it to be a high, high-quality, highly skilled person who knows the problem well. For those of you who haven't read it, we haven't denied it, or we didn't propose to change the provision that it's still the government that appoints it, but we've increased it from 5 to 10 years of experience. Because it's not just business experience, it's also professional leadership... I'm under the impression that there was just more pictures of the person for whom this was intended. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78402	Please state the amendment number two. The Croatian Labour Representatives' Club, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes of 82 votes in favour of, 32 votes against, 1 abstention was passed by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Hydrographic Activity in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78403	We're continuing at 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports of internal waters, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 660; Proposer of Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session. We have Deputy Minister Zdenko Antesic with us. Introductory, Deputy? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78404	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. The adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports of inland water is primarily conditional on compliance with the new Law on concessions entered into force on 28 December 2012. In addition to those proposed amendments and the additions to a provision, clearer and more detailed, in particular the part relating to crews and vessel documents, the classification of ports and ports, the institute of shipping agenting contracts is introduced and the notion of a water installation is introduced. The proposed law is aligned with the Criminal Law and with Directive 2006/87 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 laying down technical rules for inland navigation vessels. A consultation with the public interest was also conducted between 30.12.2013 and 20.01.2014. Well, something specific about the law. In Croatia's legislation, according to EU legislation, three types of concessions are known. First, a concession contract for the economic use of the general or other goods, then a concession contract for public works and a concession contract for public services. It is therefore necessary to adapt the applicable Law on navigation and ports of internal waters from 2007 which knows the Institute of Authorisations which, by their legal nature, have the essential ingredients of the concession contract to the provisions of the Law on concessions, which also means adapting to the rules on public-private partnership and public procurement. The basic difference between the previous approval and concession institute is that the approvals were generally issued on request and, exceptionally, through the tender, while the concessions were given as a rule by the tender and only exceptionally on request. The alignment with the Law on concessions opens up greater opportunities for investment in the port area of potential concessionaries such as Luke Slavonski Brod, Sisak where there is a large port area and have a reserve space for the development of economic activities directly related to the use of river transport. The proposed amendments and additions represent a modern framework for future development of ports and ports of internal navigation. The paper in this proposal amending and supplementing the law is the introduction of the concept of a water facility as a general and broad name for all types of vessels and floating devices that exist in the internal navigation in which it proposes redefining the concepts of a vessel and a floating object and introduces a new concept of a small floating object which defines the conditions which it must satisfy to be able to use at a specific location. The law also introduces a shipping agent contract in the form of a maritime agency contract and maritime agents. It is an institution which is bound by a ship's agent on behalf of and for the account of the authorising officer to carry out assistance, representation and ownership tasks and other ship's agency activities while the authorising officer is obliged to compensate the ship's agent for the costs and to pay the prize. In the part of the infringement provisions, excessive, minimum and maximum amounts of fines prescribed shall be reduced. This enables the conduct of an emergency infringement procedure against natural persons and for easier violations and against legal persons, which will ultimately contribute to greater efficiency and economic efficiency of the proceedings without breach of the principle of legality. The proposed solutions are fully in line with the Infringement Act, articles are nomotechnically improved, legal descriptions of infringements are more precise and clear and consistent with the material provisions of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78405	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're starting a club debate. On behalf of SDP Representatives Club Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78406	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The reasons for the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Law on Navigation and the ports of internal waters can actually be divided into two sets. The first set is to comply with the existing legislative regulations of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union. This also applies to the Law on concessions which entered into force on 28 December 2012, and also to amendments and additions to the laws harmonize the regulation of this law with the Criminal Law and with Directive 2006/87/EC. The European Parliament and the Council laying down technical rules for inland navigation vessels from 12 December 2006. The second set of reasons for amending and supplementing this law is a clearer and more detailed regulation of certain provisions, in particular those relating to crews and documents of the vessel, the classification of ports and ports, and it is introduced that this was the Deputy Minister and mentioned by the Institute of Maritime Agents and the concept of a water facility. In particular, I would like to stress that this law will be discussed in regular procedure means in two, at least two readings, and that consultation with the interested public has also been carried out in addition to this legislative proposal. We also have the results of what gives us great chances that we will actually produce a clear and quality regulation. Although the deputy minister has already raised several topics on which I wish to say I would still repeat several basic concepts that bring these amendments and amendments to the law. It is therefore necessary to say that the applicable Law on the navigation of ports of inland water should be adapted to concession laws, which also means adapting to the rules on public private partnership and public procurement. The current law knows the authorisation institute which has, in its legal nature, essential elements of the concession contract, namely that of the Deputy Minister, the Croatian legislation now knows three types of concessions in accordance with EU legislation: therefore, the concession agreement for the economic use of the general or other good, the concession contract for public works and the concession contract for public services. In fact, the most important difference between the approval institute and the concessions so far is that the approvals were generally issued on request and, exceptionally, through competitions, while the concessions were given as a rule through competitions and exceptionally on request. This coordination opens up greater investment opportunities for potential concessionaries in port areas. Here are the great odds of many ports, many of our inner ports are already mentioned the ports Slavonski broj and Sisak so which exist, which have their own areas and this reserved space for the development of economic activities but also opens space for other ports, I would mention that Osijek and the port of Vukovar, which have a good infrastructure predisposition that future concessionaries and potential concessionaries can offer many things specifically related to the use of river transport and infrastructure related to the use of river transport and infrastructure. The proposed and changes therefore represent a modern legal framework for future development of ports and ports of internal navigation. The new legal concept that introduces these amendments and complementarity of the law is the introduction of the concept of a water object as the general and broadest name for all types of vessels and floating devices that exist in internal navigation. Also, the concept of a water object proposes redefine the concept of sailing and floating object and introduces a new concept of a small floating object. Consequently, these provisions also define the conditions which must be met in order to be capable of a specific purpose at a specific location. Also, as I have already mentioned in the introduction, the institute of shipping agenting contracts is being introduced, and according to the model of a contract on, excuse the maritime agency and maritime agents. It is the institution where the ship's agent is bound on behalf of and for the account of the authorising officer to carry out assistance, representation and intervention activities and all other ship's agency activities while the authorising officer is obliged to compensate the ship's agent for the costs and, of course, to pay the compensation. The latest newspaper refers to the violation part of the provision. In fact, they are being reduced, as the deputy mentioned, by the excessive minimum and the maximum amount of fines prescribed, and thus enables the conduct of an expeditious infringement procedure against natural persons as well as against legal persons in the event of easier violations. All of these will ultimately contribute to the greater efficiency and economic efficiency of the procedure without breach of the legal principle. It is already mentioned that the proposed solutions are fully in line with the Infringement Act, some articles have experienced nomotechnical improvement while the legal descriptions of the infringements are more precise and clear and consistent with the material provisions of the said law. Due to all of this, the Social Democratic Party Club will support amendments and additions to the Law on navigation and ports of internal waters in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78407	Thank you, too. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78408	Thank you very much. Given that according to some knowledge this is the last item of the agenda, here I am going to be brief. I have reported to Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament and Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate because this law on changes and additions to the Law on Navigation and Ports of Internal Water also refers to my city and port in Slavonski Brod which should be one of the leading ports on internal waters in the Republic of Croatia along the Vukovar, Osijek port and those of smaller ports which are defined by previous legal provisions of Erdut, Ilock,..., so on the Sava River, on the river Dravi also... What? Sisak, that's right. However, I must say it, and I will say it again, today I have already said it, we also remember the time when we were talking about Zagreb being a river port. According to some of the scientific research and knowledge conducted by the HAZU, the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, which was exposed, i.e. in October 2013, was spoken of by the port, here is Mr Schuker, who would be on the Sava River towards Velika Gorica, therefore of the great works that the port in Zagreb would take south and which would be in case there were investors and those interested in deepening the river Sava. And we know that the late President Tudjman sailed the ship, I don't know the exact name of the ship, from Sisak to Rugvica. Today, until Rugvica, so Rugvica already belongs to Zagreb and here, at that time of summer, at that time of Croatian unity we talked about that Zagreb will also be a river port because then the traffic from Županja could run all the way to Zagreb, and the waterway, river navigation, river transport is the cheapest transport and relative to rail transport and road transport. What's stuck? Whether the opinions of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts are, therefore, one professional paper, an elaborate that went public, adopted or not, I don't know. Most of the time, there is very little public talk, as if there is no interest at all, as if there is no interest, I don't know if Velika Gorica is interested or not, but there are very few words about it. In Slavonski Brod, the port has been built for 15 years and more, and it is not possible to build that port along which it goes, the economic zone, so a business zone that has 100 hectares, with the unsettled disputed property law between a municipality of the suburban, the municipality of Quakar and the town of Slavonski Brod, where the town of Slavonski Brod does not have a dispute for some 100, 200 square meters and is simply stopped a project of economic zone in Slavonski Brod, which is really funny. So what some say about local sheriffs is really, as the DORH's newly elected chief, Mr. Cvitan, said when he spoke of local powers, that's exactly what the local sheriffs said. Here, we have a situation in Slavonski Brod that a zone that should employ thousands of workers in that port of Brod area, so called the economic business zone, simply cannot live. And investment in the port of Brod which, therefore, is the money that is allocated from the state budget, the local community cannot do so in view of the situation in which Slavonia and Slavonski Brod and County is a ship-posavina. Otherwise, the smallest GDP per capita, the fiscal capacity of the county is the smallest in the general population, so the state's help was needed and here it is being built and built and built and built in the meantime and renovated and the port in Sibenik and the port in Zadar, Dubrovnik, everywhere, on Rava is built, on the island of Rava Luka, but in Slavonski Brod it is not. Luka Vukovar is also very attached to the Danube-Sava or Sava-Dunav channel project, however you will, which has also paused from the state budget for the channel, for one large one, which could have been a major investment block of the entire region, the region of Slavonia and Baranja, unfortunately it stands. The Vukovar port was planned to move west, according to Brshadin, the northwest, so compared to the current position, the current port location in Vukovar. When's that gonna be? It seems to me that it's all this way for the people to say "wolves," but I guess we'll welcome it once and I guess we'll celebrate it once, too, to train a new port of Vukovar, the port of Slavonski Brod with an economic zone. The ports are always connected and with the development of the economy, today they could, today from Vukovar Dunav can reach Amsterdam and then Danube, Maine, Rain, etc., rivers and canals, but can be reached from Županje to Slavonski Brod because there are certain obstacles, shallows where the ship, except for the high water stop, can cross these shallows towards Slavonski Brod. There were speeches about the measurement and investment of the cleaning of the Sava Riverbed and, as far as I know, there is nothing, and that law that was disastrous in the ban on the exploitation of gravel and sand on our rivers has contributed to the fact that the crusts of our rivers on our part are completely in the words of the inaccessible trough with shallow gauze and that simple sailing cannot be done. It would be nice if all the cultural and historical and all the other advantages that Slavonia and Baranja offer, and that applies primarily to these ports, could also visit the passenger ships from Europe and, unfortunately, visit all these cultural and religious and natural and then enjoy the culinary delicacies of Slavonia and Baranja, but unfortunately in the visions, we have no strategies. As for the very proposal for a law relating to ports, water facilities and concessions, which is the most important part of public procurement, I hope that there will be no charges for the State Commission for the control of public procurement procedures when it is said by the ministers, including the Prime Minister that he did not order the vehicles, it was determined by state procurement. So what's he got with a thousand and I don't know how many vehicles they ordered, so it wasn't the state public procurement that ordered those vehicles, it was the Prime Minister and the Ministry. State procurement only chose these offers nothing else, she did not order them. But here's how it happens, so it comes down to public procurement for all the evils that came after this sort of thing. I can only say that I am in good faith, no matter what little I see the effects of this government in any segment mainly in the competent ministry dealing with traffic, so here we see what is done with the Croatian Railways, we see what is done in Slavonski Brod from the railway hub that has been transferred and moved to Vinkovce and... the station in Spačva eats so, it could be in Luci Brod and it should have been in Luci Brod but was transferred to Spačva by the political powers at a certain point in time and in certain political circumstances and in a certain political competition between the officials of a party who were from Slavonski Brod and Vinkovec. So these are from Vinkovci... Overstepped. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78409	Let's talk about the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78410	Am I done? And I've got five minutes left. So I'll go back to the water. I'm afraid a similar situation doesn't happen and I just said a comparison, so I said that a similar situation doesn't happen in connection with these ports, river ports. As regards the concepts of Article 2(4), it is also amended and then explained what internal waters are, which is internal navigation, which is a waterway, a waterway, a waterway, a water installation, etc. Until the point or sub-point 67, where it says the minister is the head of the ministry. It really defines what's great, and now we're all clear on what it is and who the minister is. So there is a complete explanation of everything, and this is about concessions and changes in concessions in the work of ports and inland navigation I hope and I believe that this is all very expensive written in good faith and intent and here by tomorrow we will consider when this law is adopted as we vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78411	Thank you, too. No more reports. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later. Tomorrow we will continue with the Final Proposal of the Labour Protection Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 607. My colleagues and colleagues, I'll see you in the morning at 9.30, I wish you a pleasant extension of the day. Session interrupted at 18.16 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-05-15-0.u78412	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports of internal waters, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 660. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on navigation and ports of internal waters, 2. All comments, proposals and opinions shall be made to the Proposer in order to prepare the final proposal for the Law. I'd like to make a statement as to who the proposed conclusion is. Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 87 for and 28 abstentions, have reached the proposed conclusion.
