ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86538	Dear colleagues of the MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament continue at the plenary session of the 14th session of the Croatian Parliament. According to the established agenda, it is now up to the following: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, first reading, P.Z. No. 697 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply, Articles 183 to 188. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Gender Equality. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Honorable Justice Minister Orsat Milenic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86539	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. You have before you a draft of amendments and addition of the Penal Code, the first reading is. The law was adopted in 2011 because of the introduction into the subject, it entered into force on 1.1.2013. Whenever we deal with the Penal Code, it falls under those particularly important laws, that is to say, procedures and procedures. We introduced into the ministry a practice which means that in these, let me call them bigger laws, the task force continues to work or work continuously from its entry into force to see and to monitor constantly what is happening in practice and that, if necessary, it can intervene. So there's also one thing you might need to say in the introduction, you'll see here we have three directives to coordinate with. So the process of amending our laws is permanent, so at this point, next week in October we will discuss on the Council of Ministers some further changes that will be passed through European legislation and have to be included with us. So it's something that's a permanent process. But when we do that, we need to see what happens in practice and see if we need to intervene in some segments. So one thing, I'm going to start now with what are concrete changes, not as the most important thing, but a lot of things have been discussed against honor and reputation. Everyone will say the direct cause was the verdict, but she really wasn't. I said that the working group discussed it over a year ago and looking at what was happening in practice, looking at what was the goal that was to be passed with the law, considering what was happening in countries that were a model for such a solution, we came to the conclusion that certain changes should be made. In that we had two, I'd say extreme demands. The first was to decriminalize everything, not these values of honor and reputation to protect by criminal law, it was the first request. He too, in some ways, may have been the easiest to accept because he would have been very well welcomed in certain circles. On the other hand, we had a request don't touch anything. However, I have told you now that you see in the reasoning of the laws for which we have assessed that these acts should remain in the Penal Code, that these values should continue to be protected by the Penal Code, and on the other hand that we have to go towards balance, on the one hand some ambiguity of the legal provisions that have been laid down to correct, and on the other hand to a stronger emphasis on the protection of freedom of expression, action in public life, etc. So that's what with this proposal I think we've achieved. I'll get my order. Insult, it remains as it is, slander on the other hand also remains as it is. What's slander? The slander is when you, when someone deliberately knowing that something is false, is about another person and is actually causing him direct harm. The important thing is that she's on purpose and she's aware of this person and it's not true. And it was undeniable from the beginning that it was something to sanction. Now we come to this middle one to say the parts, so far embarrassingly, we here suggest it's called severe disgrace, what does that mean? It means that, in fact, you know or not knowing that something is untrue, and the possibility that something is false, but still you bring it up, and it's hard to disrupt someone's honor and reputation. So that's something, I'll tell you, and here we can talk about examples, some examples that are from practice. You have, like, suicide in the sky, someone kills themselves, and now the neighbors start talking about a husband or wife killing himself for the infidelity of another mate. It comes to family, kids talk to this spouse, they don't talk. We had in practice that some crime from this occurred and it was really the beginning of something that was the first thing that should not be spoken at all and the second that was completely false. In the end, suicide is found to be the result of a serious illness. And the damage that's done here is immeasurable. So these are the values that we have to protect and we can't say that now is something we're going to leave without criminal protection. Also one line, Europe is divided here I would say to EU members and non-member countries. Countries that have not generally decriminalized these acts of practice are not sure that they have a better freedom of speech, that they have better protection, etc. and they don't have it in Penalty anymore. Western Europe all but Great Britain has one another, the United Kingdom one different system has this as a criminal offence. Even Croatia is there with changes made in the most liberal regime because we are the only or only one of very few countries that have no prison sentence, so we only have a fine. So that's the one. However, on the other hand, we must and must never use the Penal Code as a means of limiting freedom of expression, speech, if we are to talk about some artistic criticism, we want to talk about scientific, we want to talk about journalistic work, etc. That's why what we're proposing here is actually the introduction of an institute of exclusion of illegality for insults and for the act of severe disgrace if it's committed in the public interest or for other justifiable reason and it's done through art, public debate, some kind of social work, journalistic research, etc., so there's no crime in that case. The question will be raised and there has been plenty of controversy about who will determine the public interest. Why didn't you prescribe a definition of public interest in criminal law, because it's impossible, will be determined by the court. And we have to, we simply have a system of values that we have that certain values determines the court. There we must have absolute confidence in the court, believe in multi-stage decision-making, in the control of senior courts because there is no other solution. Open the Penal Code, there is something in every act that will determine the court. Later on, I'm going to talk about some serious murders, whether it's cruel or not, who determines, determines the court, we can't prescribe it by law. So there's no mechanical approach to deciding that we put in as we'd be asked to standardize everything and put everything into some kind of machine and then it gives the result out, it just doesn't exist. So the system that we have is not us but the entire Western democracy is at all resting on the court to decide some things and that we must trust in that court. It's just like that. So who's going to decide what's public interest? They'll determine the court. Who will determine what the legitimate interest is? They'll determine the court. These decisions need to be discussed, they should be criticised sometimes and simply built on standards because society is changing, but that's the case. So we propose that there be a clearer definition of the work and we propose these reasons for excluding illegality in order to avoid any possibility of criminal law being used to limit freedom of expression. Next, a new crime, and I'm sure there will be a lot of talk about psychological violence in the family. The amendments to the Penal Code are an act that existed before, so domestic violence is abandoned and it is actually broken down into several acts and is going through other crimes. However, by talking and watching what happens to us in practice, we have noticed that this opens a certain gap especially with regard to psychological violence that is sometimes such a nature that simply has to have criminal protection, it must be protected through the Penal Code. We all know that we have a law on protection against domestic violence where, in fact, which in practice quite well works, its basic value is that it is a criminal trial fast, so you get a bully who is currently away from the family, from a family that is very quickly punished. Penalty law is always slower. However, in certain cases, and this is, as you can see here, we predict them that this is a situation of long-term and severe insult or intimidation that caused the consequences of the psychological integrity of a person, we think it must be a criminal offence and that it must be prescribed as such by criminal law and protected. So we have to protect that value. Here I can immediately say that we are aware and the difficulties we are going to have with this because proving in these cases will be quite difficult, you will often have to carry out art because you simply have to establish that this is such a degree of incursion in the psychological integrity to justify this act, means that there is a criminal act but we do not think that this is a reason not to introduce it as a criminal act because it is simply regrettable that such things happen around us that we as a society have to say that they are, that we do not allow them and that we believe that we have to react to the most difficult mechanism such as criminal law. Notice, it's about first reading, and we're open to debate. The debate is ongoing and we are ready to discuss this and discuss it. Next, one thing actually is that, so we are a whole series of criminal offences when it comes to their qualification, you need to establish certain values, for example. Is a stolen matter of little value. It's a very important thing because it depends on whether or not you're going to, not only what punishment is being prevented, but whether the state is acting on official duty or if a person has to personally investigate who stole the thing, sue him, etc. Traditionally, however, this was prescribed by the Criminal Law, at a time of great inflation, etc. It was actually abandoned because the law should be changed too often, so it's said ok, we'll leave that to the Supreme Court that they can adapt more easily and determine what these values are. Not just small, big, etc., you have a whole series of crimes. We now have stable on the one hand, so we don't have practical inflation, there's no need for that, on the other hand, we think we need to go back and we need to get it back and we need to get it back to the Penal Code. So the Supreme Court was doing the best he could, absolutely doing it well and adapting, but now because of the stability of the system, we think it's necessary to return it to the Penal Code. What led us to do so was the situation, i.e. it is still such a situation until we eventually change the Penal Code, according to which the value is, so that small value is determined by 2,000 kuna and more. What does that mean? In a whole series of criminal acts, e.g. fraud, theft, evasion, etc., if there's something below 2000 kuna, there's no acting on official duty. This means that once a pensioner or anyone who lives on 1500 kuna or 1990 kuna if someone steals his pension or cheats on him for it, he comes to the police, the police have to say look, we can't act. Why, because it's under 2,000 kuna and you choose to find out who did this to you and chase him to court. We don't think that's good, and we just have to correct it. We're going down here, so we're going to 1000 kuna. You can always talk about whether it's too much or too little. In doing so, we need to reach a balance, and that is where I return to what the Supreme Court has been doing because the Supreme Court has been going from a position of economics completely correct because we need to know when we bring this border down to 1000 kuna we will also have pressure on the system because we will have a simple increase in the number of acts that will be prosecuted by official duty. But on the other hand, I don't think we can send a message that someone who has been existentially kidnapped in any way, that we as a state will not protect her. That's why we're bringing this in. Next thing you know, a lengthy crime. It's very simple. This practice has been used to build this, therefore it is treated as one piece, but in the qualification of this work each one is taken separately. And then your con artists, especially in serial fraud or theft, went very carefully to always be below this minimum for a small-value piece of work and then, so they made tens, hundreds of thousands of kunas, and since each piece was below the minimum, they weren't prosecuted by official duty. And that's something we also have to send a message and say we're adding up, it's adding up. If you stole 50 times 1,000 kuna, it's 50,000 kuna and it'll qualify as that. So one thing, by the way, some countries don't have a concept of a prolonged crime at all, we've kept it, we have all the time, it's being talked about, but what while it's there we think we need to legislatively intervene. The next thing you know, a staunch prosecution of the execution of punishment, that is, the non-depreciation of serious murders. You know it was also a topic of constitutional change, as far as I understand it is still. However, I do not think, but I am firmly on the point that it is totally unacceptable that someone who has deprived others of life in a particularly difficult way enjoys the grace of antiquity and that it happens to us that tomorrow someone can admit that we can't do anything to him because it's outdated. And as a society, we have to determine whether we want it or not. There's a purely technical observation here, so it's often obsolete and used because the state is powerless and it would be after a certain number of years to process something. Why, you can't prove evidence like that. But also with the change of technology, we have some works, especially of this kind, that can be processed after many years. So this is also an additional reason for this, but let us be aware that with this amendment to the law, we will not solve the issue of outdated serious murders for those acts that have already been outdated, and unfortunately, because of the amendments to the law and the Constitution, at some point, it has happened that the age-old deadlines have been relatively short in the past. And then if we talk, we can talk about political murders, we'll be really in a situation where someone who committed it in the name of a regime couldn't be persecuted then because the regime wouldn't allow it, it was obsolete and nothing happened to anyone. So this solves only the situation by changing the Penal Code when the statute of limitations didn't occur, and where it occurred, it can only be solved by the Constitution, by changing the Constitution. That's not the point here, but I'm saying we know what's on our desk. Next thing you know, the crime of stealing, heavy theft. In the practice of heavy theft because of the very certain penalties, and in reality the small amounts that are most common simply burdened our system too much. Because you have 30 percent of the thefts that are really small value. The suspended sentence was up to 8 years old and then we had a very big problem in the procession. Here we are now adapting these penalties so that they do not have to carry out investigations in connection with the Criminal Procedure Act and can apply the principle of opportunity when minors are concerned with these minor forms. Additional protection of certain categories of persons, we are all, unfortunately, aware of and happening in practice, primarily about healthcare professionals and teachers, but it is actually about all the people we give as a society of authorities and the task of doing something on behalf of society that is not sufficiently protected. What does that mean? That in the event of coercion or threats to those persons, they were not prosecuted by official duty. So there was either a private lawsuit or a proposal, a prosecution on the proposal. What we think is that if someone threatens a teacher or forces him to do something then the state has to react and it has to be an act that's being prosecuted by official duty and we're changing it now. Therefore, coercion, threat, and the like to persons who exercise public authority and are not official persons in this narrow sense will be prosecuted in the future by official duty. So they're going to report to the police and the police are going to have to take all the necessary action, later the State's Attorney's office to process it and sanction it. It's unacceptable for us to leave these people to actually be exposed to something, threats, coercion, and then have to take care of their own protection, that they have to invest, actually pay to protect themselves. So it was a failure, we have to correct it as a society. There's one thing about bribing MPs, now it's going to be harder to punish. I don't know why it went to some kind of punishment. It's nothing special, it stays, so it's even like everything else. Yes, there are more or less nomotechnical and other changes left. There are other technical matters, compliance with these directives, etc. But what I've brought out is actually the core of what we're changing and what's in front of you. I'm mentioning once again the first reading is. We had a public discussion about this. She'll be guided further. All the proposals are more than welcome, all the suggestions, we're open to them, we'll consider them and everything we can support, put into the final text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86540	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We have reports of replicas on your exhibit. The first is a respected colleague Dujomir Marasovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86541	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister. You said nothing should prevent the truth from being punished in the public interest and so on. I don't think I've read this, I don't know if I've read the bill well, and you haven't provided the additions to the law, and you have to make extra efforts to do it. A concrete example, I'll give you my example, so you'll understand what this is all about. So, I was sentenced in this country two years ago for being a Mr. Director, the director of the Split Theatre, told Mr. Mucal that he was a member of the KOS, that he was a member of the KOS Counter Intelligence Service. I showed you his booklet where it says so and it was confirmed by a member of the KOS, the current president of the City Council of Split, Mr. Curkovic, in court as a witness to the indictment. Judge Pulic also ruled that I told the truth, but also condemned me to 15000 kuna and in the second-degree procedure of Mrs. Soviet, I don't know her last name, but I remembered her name well, she also confirmed that verdict. So I'm convicted in this country for telling the truth. Because the verdict says, I can give it to you, that I told the truth, but I shouldn't have said that, that I shouldn't have told anyone in the former JNA that he was a cook. I could've said he was a driver or he was an artilleryman. Right? So, you tell me if you've made sure this ensures that I get some kind of satisfactory retrograde. But I don't think so, I'm serious. Because the whole state has risen and Mr. President of the State and you, Mr. Minister, because one journalist Lukic has been convicted because she hasn't told the truth, because she lied, let's go, that's how I understand that verdict. And I was convicted because I told the truth and the court wrote that I was convicted of it. And I just can't handle it. Please. Help me. [[Leko: Thank you very much.]] Have you provided these changes to the law for one other Marasovic not to be convicted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86542	Thank you very much. So we don't condemn you. Replicate response, Honored Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86543	So, from what I understand, you're doomed by the old law that we're changing here right now. So, what was I bringing to you, nor could I enter, and in a particular case I will absolutely not enter except that I can specifically say that no object as such is special until what you have alluded to is never and will not affect the amendments to the law that you see from this text. Because if he had influenced it, it would have been a different text. That's one. Two, we here are not entering a concrete example, but something which is a social interaction where there is a legitimate public interest or any other legitimate interest we exempt from a criminal act. And that's what matters. So, it's normal for someone who's in the union to call the management of a company for something and that it doesn't need to be sanctioned because it's justifiable and legitimate. It is normal for you here in the House or I, perhaps, to put up with difficult words in someone's account and to put up with them and to have no protection for it. So this is what we're exempting from. We here protect primarily ordinary citizens who must be protected from the threat of their honor and reputation in the worst form. But we, public figures, are in the best interest of the public sometimes very often to be told about us. And we don't protect it, and it's justifiable interest. So not going into a concrete example, this is a new solution, and this is the old one, ask those who brought it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86544	Thank you very much. New replica, dear colleague Josip Salapic. Here's your colleague Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86545	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Your Honor, Minister, I'm always the advocate of the modern Penal Code, and I personally advocated that we have the right law, and it lasted for years. And these changes in practice, seen some gaps in procedures, and that, I support, and that is what we will do when the debate is already debated. I commend that this is the first reading, so there's room to make some more suggestions for the changes they're proposing. But I would remain in this first part of your exposure, crimes against honor and reputation, insult, shame, and slander. Personally, I think the cause is partly the verdict of a journalist who received a verdict of disgrace, however much that may be discussed, then I would personally completely kick him out of this Penal Code for a few reasons. You yourself mentioned the problem of determining what a public interest is. So we give judges, courts at will, we believe in the firmness of the court and the judges who judge the proceedings independently, but we are witnesses and problems in the judiciary. There's everything and everything, we're aware of each other. And this assessment of public interest in certain cases can be dangerous, above all, for the burden of courts. We're looking for functional procedures, looking for maximum protection. We don't have any money in the courtroom because we've been cutting back on rebalances. There are still some changes that will burden the courts, we're aware of that. And then this disgrace as a criminal act that was called disgrace should be called gossip, which is an easier category at the level of some gossip. So I believe in the professionalism of journalists and media who follow public figures, but I'm against the distance of public figures from ordinary people and citizens because the Penal Code must be the same for everyone, no matter who is there and who isn't. And then the different lobbies that are present in the media space and that we are well aware can have an impact on someone being embarrassed or guilty or owed. Then I'm in favour of either having a criminal act that will be clearly evidenceable, without a flat-rate assessment of what it is of public interest, or we're going to throw it out of the Penal Code and stay on this insult and slander, and we're going to prove it differently. So, I'm not for that distinction of a public person, ordinary citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86546	Thank you very much. Replicate response, Honored Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86547	Thank you very much. Of course, every suggestion and debate is more than welcome. The question of public interest, so we do not share here in public and not in public because I agree that the law should be equal to everyone, we share what is public interest or not public interest or justifiable. However, the concept of public interest, here I will tell you I do not know the criminal act of Article 266. Unauthorized approach also has the concept of public interest which determines the court. So we've been counting somewhere, we've got at least 10 crimes where there's a concept of public interest that determines the court. So, we say that in honor and respect we don't trust the court, and then what, then we're going to have to put public interest in all these criminal acts. I mean, do you understand? So I think we need to approach differently, that we need to trust that the court will properly assess the public interest, that this should be discussed especially when the works of this kind are, we need to talk. The wider the debate is always good and the public interest will change. You, when you look at our public life, the public interest comes to terms over tens of years and changes. I think there should also be one flexible court practice. I mean, it's a social course. But I'm saying, look, I can tell you, now I've taken an example, but you have a lot of examples where we have a public interest, and no one can determine it, but a court. There's no other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86548	A new replica, the Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86549	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, we at the HDZ Club will support the initiative of the Autonomous Women's House from Zagreb and the Women's Network for the simple reason why we believe and believe that domestic violence and violence must be returned to the Penal Code, it must, it cannot be in a breaking law because it simply cannot be treated as a misparking of cars. I'll only read you three sentences, I have time. It's about initials, the situation until 31.12.2012, where the indictment was confirmed, the situation after 1.01.2013, that same indictment was dropped under the new law, and it's about the following: often the wife was referred to in an ugly word, the cow stupid, you have no right to vote, march into the corner, liar, I'll cut your head off, you're not gonna be a woman I can do what I want with you. He used to punch her head against the wall, slap her open hand, throw plates at her. A young child, a newborn, held on to his hand and rocked, almost a newborn fell. I don't have the strength to read all this. Therefore, the indictment under the old Penal Code and Article 215a has been confirmed, however, at the appeal of the Municipal State Attorney's Office gave up this lawsuit and a new Penal Code was entered from 1.01, where it does not exist, was returned to the Criminal Court. How will criminal judges treat and resolve this? We beg you once again in the name of all, I believe in the name of all, to return it to the Penal Code as it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86550	Thank you very much. Replicate response, Honored Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86551	So I agree with you. That's right, such acts have moved us to propose this amendment to the Penal Code that what you've described would be totally psychological violence. But let's talk about this now, just a little bit, excuse me. I also said that this is the draft that's on the table and we're going to talk about, in every way. However, why this came out of the Penal Code and why these charges fall, it's our entirely wrong address because you asked me because we didn't propose it. As you know, the law was passed in 2011, so you need to ask why it was so done then, and I can tell you right away that unfortunately all those works have failed because we now and if we introduce it back in any form, it is due to the principle that it will always apply the soft law, what has failed has failed, we will no longer be able to activate them, we can only go pro futuro. And that's the real problem, and the other question now is the one that should also be discussed well, whether the qualification is correct because what you wrote, I think that even now, what you said, you could qualify under the current law under other criminal acts, but we don't manage the state's attorney, you're going to have this state attorney, ask him, I can't answer you why something is qualified one way or another, in the drafting of this penal code that we're now changing all segments involved, the state's attorney was involved. I expect they're assessing whether or not some crime will fail. So that's it. You know, it's never good, so on the one hand, I was just saying in the introduction, psychic violence can be much harder than physical, we have to sanction it, it has to be governed by the Penal Code, whether this is a real measure or even more necessary, let's talk about it, for that we're completely open. But whether it was or not, that's why we're changing the law here. We're changing it because we think we should change it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86552	Thank you very much, Minister. We've exhausted the replicas and answers to the replica of the opening exhibition. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to submit reports? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is now the turn of the Croatian SDP club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86553	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Whenever the Penal Code is changed, it is of course something that causes great interest, both professional and even more general public. Which is also quite understandable because the Penal Code with the Constitution is the most important law of a country. For what? Because he protects the most important good, life, integrity, property. What will be in some Penal Code determines the ruling policy. What does the ruling set consider to be such a danger to society that they must find their place in the Penal Code? What are these socially dangerous behaviors that we estimate from our point of view that they must find a place in the Penal Code and that they must enjoy criminal justice? I mean exactly what Mr. Minister said, which are the values that we will provide protection, perhaps for the first time, and somewhere in a better way and with a stricter penalty. It's how politics are manifested that is translated into the Penal Code. I will immediately say that in any case, finally, if there has been no change to the Constitution so far, that here through the Penal Code we establish the non-depreciation of criminal acts for the most severe forms of the most serious crimes, and these are murders. Severe homicides involving murder, insidious ways, hate, cruel murder of a child, murder of a police officer, multiple homicides. These are the most severe forms of the most severe crimes for which it is not truly justified to cover the wave of limitations. Unfortunately, what Mr. Minister says is true, it will now only be worth pro futuro. Unfortunately for all those crimes, such serious crimes, and there have been those where they have not been discovered or the perpetrators, or who has committed such a crime, they are unfortunately able to sleep peacefully. However, if the Constitution changes, such changes to the Constitution are still on the table, their unrest, justifiable unrest, will wake up. After all, with a proposal like this... that we didn't capitulate before... serious crimes. We also recommend to the public that such serious crimes, let me already list, and in particular politically motivated crimes, the one who killed in the best interests of God, and that they are considered the most difficult acts and that there is no statute of limitations for them. Another important change is the one that concerns other great values for man, for each individual, it is a protection of honor and respect. What is a man if we take away his honor and his reputation? What's a man who's innocently fascinated, blacked out in public? It can be left without property, it can be compensated, but if it runs out of honor and respect, it's a great evil. It seems that the other great protection, which is the protection of freedom of the media without which there is no democratic society, could in some way be shaken and only seemingly protected by honor and respect for each individual and the protection of the freedom of the media seem to be only in a dispute and in some conflict, but if we look a little bit better, if we analyze what it is, which are good that protects these criminal acts, then we will see that they are essentially just seemingly in the opposite, but that they are essentially deeply pervaded and that they are in the interest of the democratic development of the country and each individual. That is why it is very good that we have not now and not even when we have been in the EU accession process when we are asked to do so but we have strongly opposed it, that we, as a former Socialist country, have not had freedom, in any case not to a sufficient and desirable extent, freedom of the media, that we must now suffer that every citizen can suffer to be spoken of in any public place, despite the fact that the EU countries have the protection of their citizens from such crimes. That is what we have opposed and the government, the resolute ministry headed by Minister Orsat Milenic. Why it's necessary and in what way it's defined, we've heard already, I'll say more about it. So the very crimes of insult, the crimes of disgrace and the crimes of slander, however, to ensure the freedom of the media, when it is said and most often when it comes to those who go out on public and political scenes whether it is politicians or those who speak publicly, they cannot enjoy such a degree of protection or must be so sensitive, ultimately our case law has also found. We have a very rich court practice regarding the crimes of insults and the crime of slander. If we follow the case before 40, 30 years ago, then we will see that there has been a large, large number of criminal acts before our courts that have applied precisely to the protection of insults or crimes of insults and the crimes of libel. That's the last ten, twenty, especially in the last ten years has fallen considerably. There's no need to be afraid of how the courts will determine that. It's a very simple definition of offending anyone else, so each of us might be wondering, and how will the court know that. I'm saying it's about having a rich court practice. A relatively new criminal act that had previously been highlighted in some way was defined as the carrying out and carrying out of something that could harm others is now called shame. And it really was necessary to define it more precisely, but also let's not get rid of the mind that there are exceptions when this work is formally done, but there are exceptions when there are no illegalities. And this is in the cases of this crime when someone is justified, and in particular it applies to journalists, he felt that it was in the public interest to publish it and that he had justifiable reason to believe what he claims. Of course, we're going to need to build court practice here, too, but that's the task of the second, third branches of power, the judicial authorities, but it's our job to define as accurately as possible. More specifically, it refers to a specific case, but also abstract enough to cover all cases. We believe that this is not a threat to the freedom of the media, although the media is making their job easier. We know how journalists work and live under very difficult circumstances, under the circumstances of globalised and media ownership, when corporations together with ownership structures influence them. In some ways, they've grown out of politics to a good extent, but they've been hit by new trouble, which is the influence of large corporations, the great influence of those who have financial power. And that's why a free journalist isn't the one who's consciously talking about a lie on the job. And everyone will agree that they need protection in what's especially relevant in investigative journalism, but also in what happens every day, which is of the public's interest to show up and show up, to show up because it's good, it's healthy for a society. After all, there is no need to interfere with the importance of the media and they are still in the democratisation of society. So here's how this is regulated now. A good relationship is found to protect the truth, and to show the lie and everything that's wrong, that in no way can relativize truth and lies, because then everything is allowed and no more professions can do their job well. I will repeat that because this often causes a dispute, a special attitude between politicians that they must not be mimosas, that they must suffer more than those who are not on the public stage. But that doesn't mean that they are obliged to suffer, nor are journalists, because even a journalist sues a journalist, even readers, we have different combinations, that everyone must be protected if someone knowingly, deliberately insults someone, slanders or spreads the truths. That is what I say and I welcome that it has persisted in protecting important goods, honor and respect, and that in this way it also helps the judicial authority, but it knows exactly what is allowed and what is not. To tell the truth is allowed, it's forbidden to lie. This is very important so that everyone can gain their role as given to them. It is especially important for our politicians, for whistles that warn but to whom someone does not respond, and many have found themselves in a difficult position to be defiled. Being ridiculed, they're politicians in a way, that's what court practice has already said, and it's a duty to suffer. But slander and lies are not allowed. That doesn't allow any society. However, it is important to note that for such acts, it is not intended to punish prisons, that only fines are provided. But that's how the message was sent to the public. It is very good that the government is proposing to protect the family a criminal act of psychological violence in the family. We think it's how you protect your family. Unfortunately, those who speak on behalf of the family do not talk about this but we are left to talk about it. Regardless of what the family is, which is a partnership, a marriage, an extramarital community, we will not allow domestic violence to be ignored in any way. Today we have heard here from the opposition representative and it is truly shocking that we have all received from a number of female associations dealing with special, not only some principled protection but who are directly in contact with women who suffer violence to reintroduce the crime of domestic violence. We all know what is violent, in a family in a public place, and it is never persistent and in court practice, then there can be no opposition to judicial practice or violent behavior in the family. The more we all come from practice and know that serious physical injuries, that death, always preceded violent behavior. That's why I understand a colleague who is hard to read, but as it was easy to raise his hands in 2011 when the crime of domestic violence disappeared from the Penal Code, he was transferred to criminal responsibility. It is also true that what the minister says there were then different forms of other crimes that could qualify for it but still it is not and therefore it is good and it is well indicated by women's associations but we also see great activities in the European as well. In particular, to protect women and introduce a criminal act of domestic violence. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86554	Thank you very much. We have replicas. Let's go in order, honourable representative Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86555	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleague Antičević, you said that this case law has shown in some way a good way or a good walk over the past 10 years, I disagree with you. I'm going to go back to that example of me, not to talk about myself, but as an example, and that's what Mr. Minister said and you said, we need to protect the politicians and we're not protected. And this bill of law doesn't protect him enough politicians or the truth. You need to put explicate into law if the truth is told you can't... Convicted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In particular, I was invited by the Croatian far-sighted woman in the third journal to vote for this Mucal as president of the Split HDZ. I was invited to TV, I wasn't talking or looking. I gave an explanation we won't because the three ministers didn't confirm him because he's incompetent, and he's still... and nothing else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, I am as a public person and in my defense, in my own court, I wrote that I cannot be accused as president of a political party, as a public figure, etc., not a court. That Puljic and the Soviets have no idea, such judges should be banned from judging not in this country but also in any other state. And even this proposal didn't prevent it enough, so that's what I'm saying to prevent it, the excuse of truth must be unsanctioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86556	Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. And turn off your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86557	I agree with my colleague that politicians must be protected but you must remember when they are legally acting and when they are telling the truth. I don't know what it was about in your case, but what you're about to assume is that you had some document available by a politician who couldn't have been in possession of a document, so you went well and went away because you could have asked the question of how did you even come up with such a document.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86558	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86559	Thank you. I absolutely support the proposed amendments to the Penal Code, but I don't think we should stop at that. I think that as the Croatian Parliament as the Supreme Legislative Body, we should do everything possible to prevent the culture of violence in Croatia. You know we're the people who say the beating's out of heaven, who's fighting', who loves each other. These people’s wisdoms create a framework in which it seems normal for domestic Tarzans to beat up women, their children, etc. and thus, even in some deformed forms of social consciousness, they gain reputation as domestic kittens, Hercules, etc. who, on the more powerless, weaker than themselves, excavate and prove their masculinity, etc., concisely understood masculinity. That's why I think some more acts should enter that circle of most serious forms of crime, such as violence against children. I mean, first of all, sexual violence against children, and I think that the forbidden sentences should be the same as in the most difficult forms of murder, which is 40 years in prison, unhappiness. Those children were destroyed, they were killed, they were killed in advance, their life is no longer at the level of what would have been if it hadn't happened, etc. Such maniacs should be punished by the strictest punishments, which I'm convinced of. Equally, the rape victims who commit suicide indirectly committed murder on them, and for those lunatics he unfortunately has, he would not tell lunatics because then he would go to psychiatry, no, but punish them, so such criminals would also be punished with the most severed punishments, 40 years of unhappiness. And you should also think about what to do with these maniacs who, as a weapon, kill people who are innocent in the streets.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86560	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86561	Here you have confirmed how much it takes for violent behavior to reenter the Penal Code, that we have had such a single definition, to see if psychological violence will be a particular form or be an independent crime, but a fundamental crime must be violent behavior. And why is it still, even though we had it in the Penal Code, we have now different forms under which such behaviour can be summed up, yet you see well, colleague Jurjevic, that still such behavior, violent behavior in the family does not cause adequate social condemnation, and then through the Penal Code we want to change it. Likewise, when you mention children, we have changed a lot of things and tightened the penalties, but I agree with you and sharpened and extended the deadlines of old, but we need to seriously consider what you are saying because children are unfortunately victims of those closest to them, whose children are either parents or neighbors or trusted to raise, or even religious education. And there can be no hiding under the wallpaper to protect any profession or reputation of someone. Children must have primary protection there, and when it comes to negative forms that can be seen in any profession, it is for the purity of that profession, not against.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86562	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representatives of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86563	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. About freedom of the media and protection of honor and respect, I agree, these two principles are not and cannot be in conflict. So the media must do their job, but we lawmakers must decide to protect each person's honor and reputation in a maximum way. I'm going to say two examples, namely the fact that if the media can't do anything, like any of us, sow and promote hate, disgust, disgust, contempt, the media shouldn't do it. Recently here we have witnessed in a public sphere that a prominent intellectual, I will not mention anyone's names on purpose not to promote them, a group of non-equivocals on an important judicial issue declared immediately without a criminal organisation pardon. So he wrote it finely and they were all classified as a criminal organization, so one group of equally respected intellectuals and politicians and former judicial officials etc. and no one, no convictions to the public. Of course, none of them will sue him. Or one journalist, actually a commentator "very respectable" who for example has written about the former defence minister for years, so I'm talking about myself, for example, repeatedly these findings. She bought herself a hat for every single Croatian defender's suicide, every single Croatian defender she celebrated. She's, I quote, she's the same as Adolf Hitler, for example. It is still respected, under quotes, of course for me, the commentator, continues to write to the Croatian public. Of course, I'm talking about myself now and I haven't sued, but I think these are real examples of disgrace that court practice should certainly clearly and precisely define as an embarrassment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86564	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86565	I thought I'd give you a general answer, but I'll answer you in person. I appreciate how you stepped forward. Many politicians here do not speak of what is generally good, to protect the truth and what is in the interest of the media and any journalist who would rather not have such crimes at all, keep silent about it or publicly advocate it, but when he is least injured not by reputation but only vanity, run to court and judge and judge. You've never sued, neither have I, nor many who talk about it openly because they're interested in the freedom of the media. If someone talks against someone all the time, insults them, slanders them, without facts, without a cause-related relationship, believe me, he doesn't speak because he doesn't like you, but he simply has such a task and we have to bet on it because journalists are powerless compared to owners and ownership structure. And that is what we are obliged to do and through this law to provide them with, but also about the Information Act, greater their freedom than the editors and the owner, so that they can even get their job done. Because freedom of the media does not exist for the sake of journalists, but for the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86566	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86567	Dear colleagues of Antičević-Marinović, you and many before you spoke, and also here in the text when it comes to violent behavior in families that should be agreed to punish you more strictly, especially when it applies to psychological violence, it exists on both sides, on both sides, on both sides. So, for reasons of correctness, it should also be mentioned that there is also violence psychologically against a man.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86568	Dear colleague Gyurjica twilight, replica. I haven't seen any colleagues. I didn't say she didn't pick it up, but if I hadn't seen it, then she might have knocked it out. Dear colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86569	Well, of course there is, so it's also corrupt. So it's not a crime for a man to commit violence against a woman but for anyone, whether it's a woman or a man or a sex partner. But we can't avoid the fact that men do it most often. And why do they do that? Because they're physically stronger than women. And why do they do that? Because that's what I can do, and we want to stop them. Because I will repeat, so violent behavior is necessary and it is not covered by severe physical injury or even when death occurs. Then those are other crimes. But it's very dangerous because it lasts for years, because it takes a long time, exhausts a woman, exhausts children, and ultimately always precedes either severe injury, injury, and death.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86570	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86571	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, I've seen through your exposure that you really do, and I don't believe that anyone here is against supporting the initiative and that we're committed to entering this violent behavior and family law. You say, you have easily raised your hand in 2011 and you forgot to say how much in reality has been done by 2011 in order to punish the violent behavior in the family and towards both men and women, as well as children. He's got protocol and everything. But didn't we finally come to another level more? Can't we skip that one more step and not charge ourselves with you or we are, so here's to making an effort to get into the Penal Code. For indeed, when a person says that he has committed a crime or has committed an offence, that saying itself has one weight to do so from the evildoer. I believe that no matter how expensive a misdemeanor may be, the penalty still has a stronger impression. And I think by the second reading, they'll probably think about it and they'll still be back in the law. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86572	Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86573	I believe not only that he will return to the law, but I repeat, it should not have come out of the law. Because when we were able to rule then we introduced this crime, when you, you, you decriminalized him, transferred him to the crime scene. And the SDP club is on the stand that it's such a danger that there's room in the criminal law. And here, since I see that you will support it, I think that especially everyone here, and especially women, regardless of the political option, must especially advocate it because women are most often victims of this form of domestic violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86574	Thank you, too, dear colleague. It is the Club of Independent Representatives Linic, Vuksic, Nedzad Hodzic. Representative, here you go. Branko Vuksic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86575	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. It is good that the Minister of Justice listens, it is good that the Minister of Justice hears, it is good that the minister respects the remarks and it is good that he admits the mistakes or his own mistakes or mistakes that occurred before him. It's a good thing he sees mistakes in court practice, although court practice sometimes defends from this place uncritically, and defends indefensiblely, but it's probably his obligation. It's good that the amendments and additions of the Penal Code go into two readings. It is a good thing that dozens of public gatherings were held to discuss shortcomings, ambiguities, and far-reaching application of the Penal Code. In recent months or years and more days of application of the Penal Code, the greatest focus has been on the application of provisions of insult, shame and slander. First, let's figure out what's what, because many of the three related concepts stick into the same basket. An insult is a word or a procedure that offends, wrongs, or shames affecting the dignity of another. In addition to the insult of honor, it is also known in terminology, but also not so far-fetched court practice, an insult to Your Majesty. It was applied to the justice of the Socialist Croatia. Insulting Your Majesty is a legally punishable act against dignity sovereign, and the former South had it. Because of the insult of sovereignty, let's say Tito ended up in prison a well-known actor Boris Festin who made a crime because of an inappropriate conversation with the sovereign. How did they get in touch with the dead Tito and Festini? In the bar, Festina at the bar, and Tito in the picture above the bar. Fortunately, such sovereigns are gone. There is truth to sovereign vanity. And the people make a mockery of them. It's an act of shame. It's embarrassing. It's embarrassing. So you can bring shame to yourself that politics is not a rare case. Unfortunately, we can't sue ourselves. Defamation is a false rumor about someone spreading evil intent. The spread of rumors in politics is called spin. The spread of rumors is therefore legalized. Hand to heart, it is most difficult in public space, in public speech and public action to claim, prove and even distinguish insult, shame and slander. In particular, if the law makes a vague provision, and the case-law has a radical interpretation and application. With the right of the most public cry, it was precisely a provision of a crime against honor and reputation. In addition, in a society where all values are affected, in a society where minimal criteria are lacking, even unreputable ones insist on reputation, even the wicked trenches defend their honor. At this point, about 40 proceedings are being conducted against those who allegedly publicly disgraced others. With what? Well, the truth. But not with the truth about the sexual orientation of the company's owners, but about his mugging, bad business, blurry business with the state. They were publicly embarrassed by the truth about spending public money. The case is, I will talk about cases of name and last name, Medikol against journalist Slavica Lukic. It's a case of an eclectic attack by a judge on media freedom. As a harsh violation of media freedom is the verdicts against RTL or HTV, only because they broadcast RTL mentioning live statements by Prime Minister Milanovic in which he allegedly slandered Milan Bandic. And what were journalists supposed to do to prevent the libel from being slandered? I guess they should have asked Milanovic in advance what he would say, if he revealed the answers to their questions, they should have kicked him out of the studio by the judge or judge. And what if Milanovic doesn't tell them all the answers and the interview goes live? The media will still be punished. If, however, a statement or a conversation is recorded for a later broadcast, should the prime minister or president of the state who has all the information of this little villa on the plate be censored? And after that court cadmium and that rude, bullying of freedom of the media, there are former and present judges who are high-ranking leaders who defend the shame of their profession. Why? Because they're more protected than face bears. RTL and HTV cannot and must not respond because of claims made by the most powerful political person, Croatian oligarchs hold far more sighs than the prime minister and they are superior to the prime minister. Only Milanovic, not the medium that conveyed Milanovic's words, can answer for the slander. It's sad that the judges don't understand the role of the media. It may not be necessary to abolish the provisions on disgrace, but due to unequal court practice, because of judges who would have thrown out of the US Constitution the first article that is the simplest, shortest and most precise to say what bothers the judges, the media is free. For the sake of such judges, it is necessary to further clarify, specify the provisions on disgrace. Now I hope everyone understands what is and is not an embarrassment. The proposal says there is no criminal offence of severe disgrace if the perpetrator proves the truthfulness of the factual claim he made or carried or the existence of a serious reason for believing in its truthfulness. And yet privacy is protected by the provision that out of severe shame, factual claims relating to personal or family opportunities cannot be excluded. And what if it's family business, like in the case of Medikola? Will the judges treat it as privacy? Someone might think I'm exaggerating, wait for the first similar case, and you'll see that this isn't an exaggeration. Before the criminal-legal literature introduced the concept of disgrace, the term gossip was considered. Which would only be a judicial dispensation. Any coffee gossip, for example on the bench, could be sued. The slander is, of course, a more serious crime than shame and it is easier to prove it, but there is one great but. Even when it is found that, for example, the medium has made a lie, it is necessary to prove that this medium knew that it was a lie. The real slander is knowingly making false claims. According to this proposal, the court may release the defendants who have made bitter, diaphragmous claims in the public interest. If those provisions are adopted, journalists and those involved in public life can at least take a break. They will receive journalists, media and public figures and what is most important to the public and lose lawyers and judges who love very much the processes in which the protagonists Milan Bandić, Milanović, Predrag Matvejevic or some other publicly known persons because it is a free strong commercial. They are proposed in the Penal Code and amendments to the provisions that treat domestic violence in a way that protects the victims as much as possible, but we will also give amendments to other readings, more severe punishments, those who physically and mentally attack a marriage partner. At last, there is a clearer recognition of psychic violence that leaves stronger and more lasting consequences than physical violence. From the proposed amendments and additions to the Penal Code, I will draw up changes concerning both parliamentary representatives and amendments covering officials and responsible persons. The current law now knows the criminal act of bribing MPs, either parliamentary, or representatives of local representative bodies. If bribery is proven, bribery is threatened with a penalty of 6 months to 5 years in prison. For the corruption of non-prosecutors, then under allegations of "ordinary citizens" therefore other citizens are prescribed more severe penalties. Penalties for MPs as well as for example judges, ministers should be stricter than milder. The law now at least evens us in punishment. But I wonder who will and will ever try to bribe an agent? Representatives are being bribed, but who bribes MPs? They bribe each other, or representatives, from... and Bovic, the party. It's been all these years, they're right to defend the former Vukovar mayor, such bribery legalized. It was part of the political non-culture in Croatia, those who were more often and cheaper to bribe representatives, which was money, which by positions, which were jobs for relatives and friends. But who outside the political sphere is going to bribe a representative? No one is smart because it is of no use or is of negligible benefit. The Croatian is... in the interest of course that laws are voted in the Assembly that guarantee them a certain undeserved profit. Then will you... or tycoons go from counsel to counsel and offer them envelopes with money? He won't. The tycoons bribe those who have real power, and those who have real power are not on this side of Mark's square, but on the other side of Mark's square. In addition, court proceedings against HDZ, Sanader and some other senior officials and the party and the government confirm my thesis. The violence of mental and physical is increasingly exposed to teachers, teachers, teachers, doctors and other medical staff. Therefore, there was a need for teachers and doctors to be more protected, to protect themselves at the level of official officials and officials, officials in local self-government, judges, judges of jurors, members of the State Judiciary Council, arbiters, public notaries. These amendments and additions to the law ensure a higher level of protection for those on whom our future depends, as well as our lives, teachers and medical staff. They are not government officials or local officials, they are life officials for all of us, for present and future generations, and therefore they need to be protected. And all of us citizens need protection from those who trespass against computer systems, programs and data. The damages of such crimes can be very large, therefore the penalties for hacking must be even greater. At the beginning of his presentation, Minister Orsat Milenić, who enjoys doing his job as seen and always talks about things to talk about, says the processes of change are permanent,... the change is permanent. I also agree with the provision of... serious murders, but I agree with all those colleagues and colleagues who said that domestic violence must be a crime and that it must be severely punished. I agree fully with Marina Jurevic, a SDP representative who says sexual violence against children should be punished most severely, punished with 40 years in prison and without obsolescence. I hope that the minister, as usual, will respect all remarks and that what needs to be fixed by the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86576	Thank you too, dear colleague. It's the HNS club and the esteemed representative Igor Coleman. Here you go, colleague Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86577	I would like to thank the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, respected ministers in immaterial form, together with an associate. Yes, these changes and additions really seem primarily due to the problems that have been seen in practice and that is, said my predecessor, that is for every commendation. Different interpretations of certain provisions, doubts about interpreting the provisions that have arisen and this kind of intervention is certainly commendable and we support it. The most pressing problems caused this unfortunate crime of shame, including in public a very visible case... Slavica Lukic, also mentioned here, who was convicted of this crime and for all of this, of course, there were very likely reasonable doubts that the decision now being changed had the characteristics of limiting freedom of information. This proposal, apart from the fact that the name of the act and the shame has been changed to severe disgrace, introduces a new provision extending the reasons for exclusion of the law, that is, Article 25 of this annex from the law which says that there is no criminal offence if the perpetrator has achieved their traits in scientific, professional, literary, public or public information on the exercise of the duty prescribed by law, political or other public or social activities, in the press business or defence of a right, and has done so in the public interest or for other justified reasons. We agree with the interpretation that this provision will facilitate the defence, primarily to journalists who seem to be in some way the sharpness of using this crime has been directed, but frankly, the HNS club would actually go a step further and we feel that the criminal act of disgrace, i.e. severe disgrace, especially in this new formulation, could in fact easily be removed from the law as a whole, especially because we continue to have an insult and slander as if, in such an unprofessional manner, as fundamental crimes against honor and reputation. The next news in this proposal is also psychological violence in the family as a separate crime, we certainly fully support it. I would like to stress here that we are also approaching this provision to the obligations of the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and family violence, that is, so-called. Istanbul Convention. If you let me have a brief crack about it, so it is, it is a convention that defines violence against women as violence directed primarily at women because they are women. It emphasises the prevention, but also obliges countries to take all measures to prevent the victim's protection and processing of the perpetrators. It took effect on 1.8 this year, after having ratified 10 member states. And what I want to point out and why I am talking about this convention is that Croatia is a signator of the Istanbul Convention but has not yet ratified it. In this respect, the HNS Club believes it would be a good idea to ratify the Convention by the end of this term of office, and we members of the delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Council of Europe, given that this is a Council of Europe Convention, I am absolutely sure that we will actively and proactively engage in this ratification process of this Convention. But let me go back to the bill. The HNS also fully supports the provision of non-depreciation of serious murder or terrorism and the murder of persons under international protection as special forms of serious murder, we support and determine the small value of things, property rights, property benefits to thousands of kunas, as well as the reduction of criminal frameworks in the crimes of theft and heavy theft especially here. That is why, given that more than 30% of the total number of applications are made to minors and minors, and in that sense, this contribution leaves a slightly greater room for manoeuvre in the processing of minors and minors for the crimes of theft and heavy theft, we also consider it a good change and a good progress. The penal framework has been increased on the other hand in the crime of bribing MPs, equated with other corrupt acts that we also support. My colleague Vuksic was already talking about it, but I was thinking about it really, really having the impression that the defendant for the crime of bribery could be defended in court by innumerableness, because it's really not quite clear with regard to both the power and the reputation that we are currently enjoying why someone in their right mind would ever go to bribe representatives. But of course we agree absolutely that we cannot be privileged and those who are trying to bribe the privileged in relation to other acts of bribery prescribed by law. So the HNS supports both these and all these other amendments to the Penal Code of Prostitution, the hack into computer systems and everything that this law provides for, intrusive behavior, it is also very important, and it has not been mentioned so far. So this intrusive behavior that involves is unusually formulated but it's stalking a man and trying violently and aggressively to try to establish a contact that isn't wanted. Including, of course, the provisions on kidnapping or unlawful confiscation of freedom. The thing I particularly stress as particularly important that we support is the increased protection of teachers, professors and medical staff. So when it comes to coercion or threats to one another, but first of all, teachers, teachers and medical staff, the criminal procedure is initiated by official duty. We support this and it is a real shame that we, almost on a daily basis in the media, are witnessing cases of coercion, threats and, unfortunately, physical violence against people who work in educational and health institutions. One note to the end, we have all received amendments to the Contra, Rišpet and Croatian Women's Network on Violent Behavior, so there have been speeches on one side of domestic violence, the other violent behavior primarily in the text of violent behavior inspired by hate, these are topics that should be seriously considered and I ask you to read the other, and see how these amendments or the content of these amendments and proposals can be included in the final draft of the law. And to conclude, the HNS which is probably visible from this debate supports the amendments and additions to this law. the laws are living organisms, it is good to adapt practice in particular such laws that depend on both judicial practice and implementation, are tested daily, applied daily. And it is positive that you came before the Croatian Parliament with these changes and additions that were created in this way. And I will only repeat what remains for us in some way hanging in the air is an act of disgrace or severe disgrace for which we are not entirely sure if we actually had a purpose. Anyway, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86578	We're going to the replicas of a respected colleague. The first replicas of respected counterpart Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86579	You speak plainly when you speak of a criminal act of disgrace and do not run away from it or flee in your own debate, although you are to some extent, and you are especially advocating that it has caused a dispute in practice and that it is indeed our task here to specify certain acts of speech to see what the legislator wanted, and thus helping, I will repeat, to help the judicial authority those who apply the law to come to the right decision, and it is better to protect themselves then the good that is protected by this crime. However, we are all aware here that there is a great criticism of the judicial authority, but we cannot escape from the fact that this crime is also in the service of protection of journalists and freedom of the media. The media are I'd like to reiterate that free talk about the criticism of the other branches of government. But as far as they can tell, I didn't publish anything because the editor won't give it to me. That's what we might hear from the towers, but that's not happening. Why? Because they would have declared them not loyal to their own media house, that they were unwanted, that they would have been paid to lose their jobs, and that the media were daily exposed and they were unable to resist it or can resist it. And that's why it's our job to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86580	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86581	I thank the Honorable President of the Parliament, thanks to counterpart Anticevic-Marinovic. I have also heard in your debate the argument which is logical and content, yours seems correct and I have no idea that the situation is black and white and you are actually right and I could agree with you and most of it I agree with you. It seems to us, therefore, in that analysis that even now with this further exclusion of illegality, it is actually questionable whether there is now more of this provision of disgrace than any sense to remain in the law, noting that insult and slander remain as acts that are still in force as something that may be saddened. And in that sense, it seems to us that the shame is indeed with this additional exclusion of illegality no longer makes much sense. Although I also stress your argument I understand and agree, and I could, under certain circumstances, fully agree with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86582	Dear colleague Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86583	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Coleman, again, I'd like to refer to this matter of disgrace that you're questioning, in a way, whether or not there's room in this law, I think there is. Because we must place man's dignity as one fundamental value, and it should be protected with the beauty of those defamation, insult, shame. And on the other hand, I think it's wrong to link it up as a threat to media freedom. Let's take the Swedish example, you in Sweden, journalists can't write and mention the name that someone's ever been charged, that he's been tried until there's a judicial verdict, so we won't say that the country doesn't have free media. Especially when we live at a time when information became a weapon, when media became a battlefield and a way of discrediting individuals to governments and entire policies. And in that sense, I think you should actually consider the value of a man, the dignity of a man as a fundamental value, that maybe a provision is introduced into the law that these questions of disgrace, slander, insults are solved by an urgent procedure because there is no point in getting rid of it after 4, 5 or 10 years because simply that man then loses his status and dignity in society or having... So I would suggest that, in the second reading, the minister introduce that provision that these cases should be resolved within a certain short period of time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86584	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86585	I thank the Honorable President of the Parliament. Dear colleague Tudjman, I will answer you in the same way as my colleague Antičević-Marinović, so I don't think the situation is black and white and I don't think I could agree with you and with your interpretation in certain circumstances and that you're not really a good part of the right. It seems to us that on the one hand we have introduced this act of disgrace in the previous version of the law which then caused very unfortunate situations in practice, then now, with this exclusion of lawlessness in some way, we have in fact questioned whether more can actually be done at all by suing and judging at all and obtaining judgments. And in that sense, it seems to us that it is questionable why we have asked this question to the Minister and for further discussion we have not given the amendment or walked so firmly into that story but it is questionable whether it makes any sense now. But by agreeing in most of what you have said, perhaps you should indeed in the case of insults and slanders some things further specify and see how this is handled and how this has been resolved in Croatia and whether, in that sense, in the context and the things that counterpart Kosor was talking about, and some others earlier in this regard, perhaps a little... so I can express myself to make these provisions of insult and slander. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86586	Thank you very much. Dear colleague of Gordana Sobol, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86587	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Coleman, basically supporting the views that you have expressed on behalf of the HNS Club, I would just like to further note about the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention of violence against women and domestic violence. So, I think it's very important that we speak the whole name of this Convention, which refers to preventing violence against women and domestic violence, etc. Istanbul Convention. So, what is important to us, so far this Convention has been ratified by 14 member states of the Council of Europe of which, unfortunately, only 8 members of the European Union. So this ratification process is going slowly because after it has been signed by 10 members, after it has been ratified by 10 members, the Convention becomes mandatory in the countries which have ratified, so it is not yet mandatory in Croatia. Otherwise, I believe that Croatia has no too much reason to delay ratification of this Convention and I think that we can therefore proceed to ratify the Convention. And it seems to me that this debate that we are having today, and I hope that the amendments and additions of the Penal Code on the basis of and so far debates, and we will see how it will continue to move towards putting some things into the Penal Code that we may have or some and some newspapers, which can then help to make Croatia even more agreeable in that part of the Convention. And secondly, I especially support this part that you've been saying in general the issues of being kicked out so I say violent behavior from the Penal Code of Hate because it's the most affected exactly by LGBT organizations and members of those organizations. Because after we started having good court practice in the case of, say, Hadzic 2011 that practice was practically interrupted and now the problem is that Violents actually stay out of the reach of the law. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86588	Thank you very much. Replication response, dear colleague Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86589	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Sobol, I agree, if I did not state the full name of the convention in my speech, I apologize, that was not my intention. We even have it on paper so I wouldn't forget his name. I agree, she needs a full name and a last name to name it that way. I propose that we and we should and we should and there is no obstacle to just leaving, the Croatian Parliament also has a delegation in the Council of Europe, I am part of this delegation, I am contacting parliamentarian against violence against women in the Council of Europe, we can sit down all colleagues and colleagues who want to participate in this and see how quickly we can move into this process of ratification of the Convention. As for the violent behavior of hate, I mentioned the amendments we got, you probably saw them all, from... and the Women's Network, it's really bad that it fell out of the law. We suggest that it be returned because hate crimes are completely irrelevant to whom it is now dominantly directed, because tomorrow it will happen that it will be directed towards the cyclists, according to the believers, according to the unbelievers, according to the former representatives, according to the current representatives, according to farmers, does not matter. A crime of hatred should be punished as a principle and should be thrown out of society by all means that are possible, regardless of what I often say in the Assembly, when we protect any minority group we do not protect that minority group just as we protect the principle that we all live in freedom and in the security that the state can and the sea to the extent that it can and must report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86590	From this point on, I need to intervene against those who minimize the role of MPs by saying that there is no reason to corrupt or influence the MPs. Dear colleagues and colleagues, no law has been passed in Croatia except for the Croatian Parliament. So the role of the Croatian Parliament is not so small or the Parliament has or can be called to the disadvantage of will as a body and everything that has been brought here in the Croatian Parliament has been brought with full consciousness by colleagues of MPs and MPs and your responsibility and my responsibility with you cannot be less than the largest in Croatian society. This influence on your behavior and decision-making is really very valuable to follow because it is based on the law. Do not call upon counsel to decide nothing and not to influence anything. Do not marginalize or minimize the role of the Croatian Parliament yourself. Let's move on. The club List of Independent Representatives and colleagues Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin share the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86591	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with assistant, colleagues and fellow MPs. The theme of our debate is the bill on amendments to the Penal Code as the first reading. It is good and I support Mr. Minister's report, I think it is correct but with a note that the second reading is respected by the proposals that have already been heard here, and the rest are respected and put into the final text of the law. So it's good that this is the first reading and that you can make comments about this report. I would also mention that regardless of the changes that are proposed, every man has the right to his dignity, the dignity of his own person. Even the greatest criminals have the right to their dignity that arises because they are human beings. It may be a little difficult to understand that one Stalin or one Lenin, one Mao Tze Tung or in our history some people have their dignity. They do, and I'm based on the views of Jesus of Nazareth. Here are some suggestions that go to the enlargement of acts that would enter the Penal Code, which are domestic violence, violence against children, the issue of pedophilia, and other forms. I am pleased that Mrs Ingrid Anticevic mentioned the need to defend the laws of integrity and dignity of every human person. It associated me with a major problem that exists in our civilization, which is a negative attitude towards the life of unborn children. I'm aware of the problems, I'm aware of the complexity of the situation, but this House should raise the voice and defend you and the unborn children. I know it's hard, I know it's hard to pass laws in that sense, but I think there's something I need to do. It is a voice and religious organisations that this problem that has been solved by the Family Law even in the time of the former South should still be tried to mitigate or change what can be done. The other thing to point out is respecting the dignity of every human person and there is an example of Pope Francis who moves the boundaries towards people who think differently, behave differently and have a different lifestyle. I think his attitudes are based on the example of Jesus of Nazareth, and that's what I'm happy about, that Jesus never spoke of religious institutions, churches, but he spoke of the kingdom of God wanting and I told you the example of doing so. In his heart and in his kingdom there is room for people all regardless of the moral integrity of man. We have examples in the New Testament where he goes to lunch at Zahey's which he's shown as... The sinner, where he meets Magdalene as a prostitute and says, "Go, do not sin any more!" And where he dies with a developer on the cross, saying, telling him today you'll be with me in heaven. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in his kingdom there is room for people all, there is room for all the worlds, and we must not share people by doing so if we are consistent Christians. We have turned Christianity into a religion, into a tradition and a tradition, not a Kingdom as a way of life. I would not continue to owe, but I stress the integrity of a person and dignity has every person, and even those who are condemned for evil deeds have the right to their dignity and he should be respected, and this is Jesus ’ example. Thank you very much. Mr. Cain will continue the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86592	Thank you, too. A colleague of Cain Damir's.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86593	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. Today nobody mentioned it, the Republic of Croatia marks the mention of the day of September 25th, meaning the day of the decision to unite Istria, Rijeka, Zadar, the island with the queen of the country and celebrates the day of the County of Istria and clearly I wish to congratulate everyone that day. That day we began to mark it this way in '93. Then we're in Pazin when Istria is after '43. once again lived one small freedom of words, said Luciano Delbianco and me and Luciana first and foremost want a quick recovery, and to all the inhabitants of Istria every good. I'm sorry I'm not downstairs, but here's my job. I certainly want to believe that these changes are primarily consistent with other good practices, not other countries, but with what we simply expect on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. Normally, slander and shame may have been the most talked about today. Clearly I will say, join it as Mr. Marasovic is careful with that. I still remember my dispute with Croatian Radio Television. They sued me not for defamation or insult but for compensation for the damages made, for the court, for the thought, given to this speaker. And they were looking for about 140,000 kuna plus a litigation cost. And I don't think anyone's ever happened in this House down to me and don't give God to anyone else. And I think that question should be regulated as well. I don't know how, we keep avoiding it through immunity. But maybe we can regulate it through this Penal Code. For starters, we have to protect people in the media, but I agree in politics that I can speak, that I can step forward and that I can act. Excuse me, write. It is absurd that many in Croatia are more protected or protected by the face of bears when they steal, but persecuted when someone is talking and writing about it. I think as long as the man's representative is his is to speak, while the journalist is to write and speak clearly. We've heard a few cases. Here's the Marasovic case. I can think of a few that I can think of this way. Mr. Mesic, the former president has sued Petricic. This one's freed. Mesic's slow to lose. The court ruling that RTL was punished for telling Zoran Milanovic about Bandic, not that the attack on the media was a legal scandal, something that was believed or not, but was not the prime minister's fault, but the judge who simply made such a verdict. How the Bandic could finally defamation of that RTL broadcast. Bandic could have slandered the prime minister eventually, but then the prime minister should have been sued, not RTL. RTL was fined with 50,000 kuna. I can't possibly call it a down censorship. But once again, I say that the Prime Minister is absolutely neither responsible nor guilty of this situation. The OSCE spoke in the case of Slavica Lukic. Freedom of speech is clearly not subject to persecution in any way, and that is simply the point. Every now and then, someone threatens me with a lawsuit. Why? Because I think I'm telling the truth. Bandic sued the prime minister, etc. But the point is also the following. What if someone can't financially simply bear the costs and pay the costs of that lawsuit. What about the media corruption? I don't know who was talking about it here, first of all by the local authorities. So let's say down at my place is 1% of the budget capacity of a billion and 500 million kuna is out, I say it openly, for the corrupting of the media. Newspapers become customer service in power. And that, in my opinion, is the greatest possible disgrace of Istria at this time. Normally, it's a job for the DORH but well they're on sick leave or I don't know where they work. And we'll see how some things just end. Why am I saying that? We here, first of all, talk about slander, shame, that's a lot to talk about and in reason. We're talking about acts against honor and reputation, insult, and when we talk about embarrassing a lot of things I'd say in this country, too, could be influenced by that notion. From the fact that people do not have bread or electricity, to the fact that those who mock us all under quotes are reluctant to become the bearers of the highest duties in Croatia. We've got more and more of these Buljubasics out of our juices in the highest functions. But as long as they match each other, they don't seem to have any consequences, etc., etc. but they are a good picture and opportunity of the public sector in the Republic of Croatia. What is certainly the point of this non-depreciation of these most difficult forms of crime. It's absolutely fine, there's no dilemma. But speaking of the definition of undefined values, small values up to 2,000 kuna now, and now we see that 1,000 kuna is proposed. I think you should just let it on the side. One that has been used in this country for 1,000 kuna will also tear out the soul but those who move with 100,000 euros, 500 thousand euros, millions of euros are the pillars of society. Nothing will happen to them, however, will again be able to benefit from 100,000, 500 thousand, a million or more, but the euro. And finally, and the statistics of the DORH shows it, in this country fit the people could say only the buranium, let's both here and there which symbol of the state. And that's what's just insulting. And I think it contributes to these standards, 1,000 kuna, 2,000 kuna. I think we should let it go to court practice as is the case now. On the other hand, I don't know, individuals take over entire municipalities. '91. and '92. have taken over companies, now entire municipalities, cities and normally nothing to anyone. I don't want anything to happen to anyone, but I want the state back to what's hers. Because I guess the state wasn't selling anyone land for pool villas, gas stations, hotels for one or one and a half or two kunas per square, but to deal with agriculture or something like that. In one word, let those gentlemen return it and then calm Bosnia. As for this bribery of MPs, yes, indeed, here in one part I agree with the President of the Parliament but be careful gentlemen we do not decide I will tell you about the menu in the Assembly restaurant. What bribe, what trade influence and the like? But where is it? It is at the level of the executive and communal services. That's where the money is. Where there's money there's an opportunity. No more, I'm holding, not even corruption at the highest of that state level, but on the interspecies, everything flashes from the same. And what's the problem with both the police and the DORH institutions, no one's doing anything about it. In this prostitution, I am very interested in how this issue is otherwise resolved in the EU. Maybe we could get along with them there, too. And here, too, in that part, I absolutely welcome the changes that concern drugs and the expansion of certain incriminations. It's certain that this law improves some things, it's absolutely fine. I've got a feeling he's not working it out. The tiny fish will still suffer, and the big ones will be afraid to protect the system, and that's what's saddest. It's not the law. It's the practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86594	Thank you. At the presentation of counterpart Ivan Grubisic, the replica Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86595	Dear Madam President of the Parliament, you said that both Stalin and Mao Tse,... /The representative's cell phone rings./..., I apologize, that Stalin and Mao Tse Tung have their dignity and that there is room in heaven for everyone. There is no place in heaven for God and for the devil. That robber repented, and we know for him that he was certainly the only man in heaven because Jesus guaranteed it to him but he repented as Magdalene no longer sinned. And these died in sin and in crime, there is no place for them in heaven. But what I want to tell you, not that they have dignity, those in Croatia also have significant followers and strong sponsors both in Croatia and outside Croatia. Because those in Flower Square who said that Croatia should be freed from God, that only then will they be free, which is instead of Satan, which they are, rather than the Nazis who put a yellow star on the Jews, free Germany from the Jews, so it will be good for Germany, they should be in Auschwitz. Now they would send all of us believers in Croatia to Auschwitz for them to stay. And that state didn't react, Mr. Minister was supposed to send combat police armed to those who publicly told us to drive God out of Croatia, so she'd be free. And the combat police are protecting homosexuals on the Riva that no one is attacking, and there's the one where the smurf puts that grandmother culturally nothing at all. He was supposed to be taken to prison right away for five years. But what I'm saying is, Mr. Minister, in Croatia, there is, therefore, that hatred against religion, against religion, and that should end. And you didn't do the right thing, not you, but the state didn't answer... to those...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86596	Thank you. Replication response, Ivan Grubisic. Turn off the microphone of your colleague Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86597	I agree with some examples of Mr. Marasovic and Jesus said that... in heaven, but it was a robber, he was condemned as a robber. Our condemnation criteria differ from Jesus ’ criteria, and that is not good. In my opinion, if we want a new evangelizing, to base our lives on the Gospels, that's the practice of Jesus that I... said, I set an example for you to do so. Secondly, which I did not present in my presentation, and what I am about to say is that every man has his integrity, his personality, and that he should respect it. I wouldn't call anyone if it was the black devil and everything was black in it. There are people who think differently than I think, but it doesn't mean that I hate them or that I want them to be evil. In my own family, I had seven victims of ideological persecution, and my father and brother were killed by Partizans. I said if they're the ones who killed them, I want them to respond, and I, as a priest and a believer, forgive them. So it's my personal position to be responsible for crimes committed against innocent people without trial, but I also respect the integrity and dignity of every man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86598	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, a replica of Damir Kajin's exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86599	You're telling your colleague that it should be a message of the law, I think it is, that protecting those who appear publicly, especially when they're telling the truth, or only when they're telling the truth, and that we've had in our past, you mentioned a single name of politicians, when those who spoke the truth about him were being persecuted, so they were journalists, politicians or individuals. And if that were possible then, then surely neither... nor would the robbery be like that. So it's very important to allow people to protect people who are telling the truth, so that they don't happen to have different powers that hear that truth, and it doesn't suit them, that they don't slander and protect such people. It's one big danger we want to avoid, so to protect the truth, and condemn the lie. It's interesting what he's talking about... what the media is about, what you're talking about today, and what we have to talk about if journalists can't, given that they're in the grips of owners and editors. That freedom of the media, that unfortunately today is only ensured by those who possess it. This is what Libling said, and in the entire global system, a solid rod, marketing, media, transnational companies, says Gavranović and.... Of course, all of this is not a Croatian exception either.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86600	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86601	It's working, it's working. Yeah, we're talking about embarrassing journalists among other things. And what about when the whole media, the whole media systems simply, I'm going to say, shame on the profession, shame on freedom of speech, on media freedom, and if they only introduce censorship? If they are sold for, say, public money, I am sure that without public money, many media in Croatia would not be, but if for that public money media sell their dignity, it is at least sad. I have a case of Istria where out of budget capacity, out of billions and 500 million kuna, 1% of the money is directed to the media, to the media, or to the PR agencies. I call it media corruption and I openly ask this question to both the House and the Minister and the DORH, as long as that practice is at work. I don't mind public money being helped by local media, but I can't have one vote from Istria, TV Nova, not Nova TV, but from that pulse TV Nova, Regional, Express, etc., acting like the party's abdominals in power. And I want to tell them just on the day of the county that it's not historic, that it's not anti-fascism, that it's not... it's a shame for Istria and Istria and it wasn't in Istria in '93. In the year until '99, 2001 to 2002, and for this reason, because of nepotism, corruption unfortunately causes these spaces and citizens who share the fate of the premises themselves. And that's why we need to free the press... And that's where I share my opinion with this quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86602	Thank you. The word was sought by Minister Orsat Milenic. Here you go, Minister. Come out for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86603	All right, all right. Thank you very much. Just a few interventions based on the debate so far and on what happened. So, bribing MPs, you can't possibly agree that it's a work that doesn't matter, everything that's brought into this House affects the lives of all the people here, in this country. Some segments may have a broader impact on the integration we are in. The current arrangement is such that it is more suited by an official who receives bribes than by a parliamentary representative. When I speak constituency, let's also not look through that prism, this applies to all the representative bodies. So what was said about the local one also applies in this part and that. So whoever takes it and whoever gives it. In fact, these are the most important and most important decisions that we can make as a society are made here or at local level for them, and we think that so far the order where the penalties for both receiving and giving were significantly less than for one official or for someone in the economy was not a good solution, so we are equating them here. So that's why we're doing it. The other thing is, we talked about hate and hate crimes. In the whole series of works it is a qualitative form therefore punishable is significantly harder and in works against life, body and everywhere and all that happens out of hatred in this law it is so and it is set a more difficult form, so you are going to punish yourself for doing so from such low initiatives as hate. That's all I wanted. Next thing you know, we're talking Penal Code here, a lot of things they're talking about are problems, but they're not being arranged for this. So we have the Law on Mandatory Relations that regulates the civil aspect of compensation for damages and relationships if you want to go through the media or anything, if someone harms someone with an insult, slander, etc. We have the Media Act, too, but these are completely different aspects. We're talking about values here and protecting values through criminality. Of course it likes to be a package but we have to be aware that this is just one segment that we have to define and set in the best possible way and then see in the other segments how we agree that we have a total picture. So many of these things that are open here right now can't be solved here, they don't belong here. They belong elsewhere, which doesn't mean they shouldn't be opened and solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86604	Thank you. Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86605	Dear Minister Milenić, I agree with you when you spoke of MPs, but they are not important they should be important. It's true, all decisions are made here in the Parliament, but decisions are made here, and the strings that raise your hands are on the other side of Mark's square, you know that. The Parliament is a fig leaf of executive authority. In one debate, even the Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic, replied to me in his reply that I may be right because here it is the semi-cancellary system, not parliamentary democracy, and we know it. I wish you were absolutely right, but I think this time the truth is on my side and that decisions are made, all decisions on how they're going to vote, how they're going to vote most of them are being made on that side of Mark's square. And that's why it didn't occur to anyone that he would ever lobby here in Parliament because the opposition doesn't make laws, the opposition isn't the one who can change any decision of the majority. I've never been on a party that's in power, and I've never heard in the halls that anyone has ever lobbyed with a party agent in power to raise their hand to some law that suits any interest because they get it on a note from the executive.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86606	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourers, colleague Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86607	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Honorable ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here is the fact that today we are celebrating the Day of the Istrian County of Honored Vice President, I will take advantage of only a very short opportunity to give all the people of Istria honest congratulations and wish them every good. As regards the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code which, in application of a little less than two years, has shown certain shortcomings and it is extremely good and commendable that the working group that started working in 2012 and worked on the preparation of amendments to the Penal Code continued its work and continued to monitor and implement the law itself. We often say that we have extremely good laws, but their bad application. This practice by the Justice Department working group is certainly an exceptional opportunity to commend it. Amendments and additions to this law aim at removing doubts as we read, complementing perceived gaps, harmonising certain norms and further harmonising the Penal Code with the legal property of the EU whose member we are. The media has long speculated that the exclusive motive of amending this Penal Code is judgment in Zagreb against honor and reputation, but here is also after this debate today and everything we have heard is not so. There are discrepancies in the Penal Code, the practice is unequal and in these amendments it seeks to prevent problems in practice and different interpretations of provisions which is certainly good. The emphasis of my debate on these amendments to the Penal Code will still be placed on sanctioning domestic violence. It has often been pointed out that we have receded the Penal Code because it does not prescribe the crime of domestic violence as an independent crime. And it is often said that we are calling on that article 215 to return to the Penal Code. The very initiative of the Penal Code, though, was to strengthen the position of victims of family law, which is reflected in the fact that committing a crime against a close person in a series of crimes with elements of violence is prescribed as a qualified form of crime. After the application of the Penal Code, there was a lot of warning about the need to amend the law in question because of the fact that the law itself does not cover all the forms of domestic violence. The Council of Europe's recommendation also requires the definition of violence against women to cover all forms of violence. Among other things, the recommendation states that violence against women understands any act of gender-founded violence that results or is likely to result in a physical, sexual or psychological injury to a woman or her suffering, including threats to such acts, coercion or arbitrary lack of freedom in public, whether in private life. The ineffectiveness of the new regulation of family violence has been particularly reflected in situations of psychological abuse of women and young children, and these amendments to the Penal Code have been added to the new article 179, which sanctions the very psychological violence of the family, but a large part of the people involved in domestic violence and a large part of the NGOs as we do in the club of the opinion that as we suggest, we are left unspeakable and leave space ineffective. Namely, a sentence ranging from 6 months to 5 years in prison is envisioned that a long - term, severe insult or intimidation of a close person severely disrupts her psychic integrity. This formulation leaves us with a case-law assessment of the longevity and intensity of violence and the degree of mental integrity impairment. Since the Law on protection against domestic violence also recognises psychological violence as a form of abusive criminal violence by means of such a formulation of this article in a way that decriminalises domestic violence. So here's the minister and the appeal to read and consider both you and the task force, so all these amendments that came from NGOs where this law does little to extend so that there aren't certain ambiguities and warn about these particular failures and here's a real appeal to be taken into account. So far, protective measures have been accepted as a very effective means of protecting victims of domestic violence, and we all have to agree on that because simply statistics suggest this. However, the competent judicial authorities have not yet begun to use this instrument sufficiently. We've just caught some good practice, we've been going to amendments to the Penal Code, and it's like we're kind of constantly going back to the beginning, and we're constantly experimenting on what's best at this point. I think that we should take the practice of keeping good things, that what is unsettled and what has been shown to be poor repairs and that, thanks to our practice, we are passing laws that will best meet. The courts are still not inclined to express potentially the most effective measures. Thus, the measure of distance from the apartment, house or other living space is found only in 12% of the items in which the measures are expressed and the measure of banning any form of harassment or stalking is not in 4.8% of such cases. The prosecutor's research on gender equality showed that the misdemeanor ended with a court ruling that found the defendant not guilty of domestic violence in as many as 43% of the cases analysed. In cases where a court finds the perpetrator guilty, the most frequently pronounced sentence of parole is 59% of the convictions. If we go to read the official data of the MUP which can be told honestly by defeating and according to their data according to the Family Protection Act since 2003 when the law has been passed and since each year, between 11500 and 17500 perpetrators have been reported and the number of victims of such acts moves between 14500 and 22200 of which women are victims in 64 to 71% of cases depending on the year we observe. As for domestic violence, in accordance with that Penal Code or Article 215a, official police data showed that between 1400 and almost 2000 crimes were reported each year, leaving between 1500 and 2100 of which women were victims in 75% and 80% of cases. So I think that these data are enough for themselves, to point us all together to see domestic violence as a very important and serious problem, and here is the European Union to respect the end of the European Union's recommendation but also to take into account all the recommendations and all the recommendations in the Istanbul Convention, because by ratifying this Convention, we must again respect certain criminal provisions. I will also refer briefly to Article 9, I believe that a good extension of the definition is also in the field of state bodies, so in this article, however, such similar bodies as the National Science Council, members of the Commission, to carry out expert examinations or to assess damages from elementary disasters, can also exist at the level of units of local and regional, local self-government. And so I suggest that we consider also the possibility of expanding the definition and avoiding the need for extensive interpretation of the rules. As regards the definition of undefined values, then before it was determined by the Supreme Court with its views and the last position has been since 2012 but I think it is certainly better to prescribe the definition by law, so here I welcome it. In doing so, this solution that is proposed fully accepts the final interpretation of the Supreme Court. The small value of things, property rights and property use has been reduced, so from 2000 to 1000 kuna and what should be welcomed. In fact, there has been a boom of petty crime that has rarely been committed by relapsers, or repeaters, against whom citizens themselves did not really have any protection mechanisms. The police did not act with small value, she referred them to a private prosecution that was as such expensive and inefficient. As regards the definition technique itself, it may be necessary to consider whether the small value in Article 29 of Article 87 should also be stated because only the value of property rights and property benefit matters is mentioned, while certain criminal offences may be differentiated in the sense that damage has been done, but no property benefit has been obtained for the perpetrator. For example. as a criminal act of damage to other people's affairs. This is seen in those previous definitions, i.e. the preceding paragraphs 26 and 28, where the damage is also mentioned, so here is just perhaps a recommendation to put it in this above article. And finally again truly commends the continuity of the work group's work, which has obviously resulted in these amendments to the Penal Code, I hope, in good faith. Until the second reading, we still have time to think and put into law everything we think is necessary. Croatian Labourists support these changes, along with a request from the Minister to consider here all the suggestions received here today at these discussions, as well as any amendments or amendments to the laws that he received from NGOs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86608	Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86609	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues, you mentioned that changes and additions to the law should always keep good practices, that is, good things should be kept, they should be changed badly. So I believe because in the opening statement, the minister himself said that the task force that worked on this law was actually following in practice and that it would intervene, and hopefully all of these remarks that we are making and all of these remarks that we have received from various associations will also work to improve this law. You mentioned partner violence. I think it's a very important area, i.e. a very sensitive area, because when you look at it, it's actually a consequence of historically unequal relationships, and that's actually why it affects women, which is why women are very disproportionate. In fact, the perpetrators here have to point out that very often they are manipulators who can hide their nature as it is. According to some studies, a large number of partner violence, including of course physical violence, does not result in any visible physical injuries and therefore does not actually fall within the judicial-medical sense of such injuries, however, I believe that this is far more dangerous because they can actually be invisible, or can be hidden, because such cases actually remain neglected and unrecognizable than the competent authorities. I have to say here that I support all those colleagues, and also you who have said that domestic violence should not be observed because of all this primarily through a misdemeanor approach, given in fact the great consequences of exactly this kind of partner violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86610	Nancy Tyrelli, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86611	I thank you for the replica. As far as this partnership violence is concerned, I agree with you that it really has a long history and that we can't solve it in a short time. They encourage data that we have so to say better results from year to year, that family abusers are sanctioned. And as far as this psychological violence is concerned, here I really think that maybe the way it is now standing in this bill until the end is unsettled because it's a long period of time and it's a question of who, in what way and how to prove how much psychological violence is really going on, and I don't think really anyone is going to use that possibility because of some verbal one time or at some longer intervals, but that it's really about psychological violence that lasts in continuity for a large number of years, disrupts the integrity of an individual who is exposed to such violence, reducing his health in any case. However, I am afraid if we leave this article of the law until the end undefined that we will have additional problems in the longevity of the proceedings, in determining the time in which this psychological violence has been continuous, and therefore I do again appeal to solve this article in the best possible way in order to have the best possible results in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86612	On behalf of the Club of Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86613	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. First of all, the finding that it is good that these amendments and additions of the Penal Code go into two readings is good, it is important, because they will have time to think carefully, and the ministry will have time to consider all the numerous remarks that have come mainly from NGOs dealing with extremely important and important issues so that this is a good way to go. Of course, the time has matured for amendments and additions to the Penal Code. And as you ministers said at the beginning, there will be more. Of course, we are a member of the EU and we will continue to coordinate and I would say that our system that is here is extremely important. The penal law is also one of those laws concerning, in fact, every citizen, every citizen, as far as all areas of life are concerned, and it is important that he is constantly grinding, grooming, editing, and that every change is attended by as many interested people as possible. What I'm going to talk about is actually three topics that have been highlighted most so far as to, like, cause particular attention. It is the non-depreciation of the grave murders, acts against honor and reputation and the return of the crime of domestic violence, that is, this, the kind of formulated manipulation that we have today in these amendments and additions to the Penal Code. So, as has already been said, it was an intensity when this recent verdict took place in the case of a journalist to remove the crime of shame, therefore in the protection of honor and to see the integrity of a person completely removed from the Penal Code. However, I would remind you of the time when this work was in place. So at the time of the creation of the new Penal Code, the one that came into force in 2013 that everything and the introduction and formulation and the corruption of a new criminal offence was debated primarily by a valuable Working Group composed of extremely valuable and important criminal experts. And then there was controversy about this criminal act of disgrace, but the experts will not now tell them in order. But extremely well-known, admittance of criminal law experts have advocated that this is exactly the crime that remains, that we install it. And it's my opinion that it still needs to remain in the Penal Code with some finishing. Namely, honor and reputation must be protected. There is no man, there is no person whose own integrity, which is actually honor and reputation is not important, which does not hold to it no matter what business he was in. Of course, especially in moments and this applies primarily to people who are exposed, who are on the public stage. When trying to discredit, humiliate, insult, and, of course, damage them in any way, permanently harm them. But I warn, it is not always done and only or almost exclusively it is not the case that damage to the reputation and honor of a person, but it is the damage to the reputation and honor of the family and the person and the consequences can be lasting especially the consequences of children in school, kindergarten, college, permanent and life-long. And we need to be extremely careful here, and that's why I think it's a good thing that you brought in as a supplement. Therefore, if the perpetrator proves the truthfulness of his claim, then it will not be a criminal act, no matter how much it has damaged the reputation and honor of a person. However, the new 148a article. which introduces and excludes illegality for crimes of insult and serious disgrace, this article in my opinion is not well-developed enough, not well-supplyed enough, not sufficiently accurate. You said and here I agree that, of course, great responsibility will again be in courts and in court practice. But I'm warning you, I'm not going to give particular examples, but from now on the recent past a few months ago, unequal court practice where different courts of the same, practically the same thing, judge completely different. It was about extradition. Therefore, when the court has, it gets this insufficiently and to an end-stamped provision, and I will say why I find it insufficient. So there's no crime. If the perpetrator has done so in the public interest or for other justifiable reasons. What can be all the other valid reasons? It's a wide range of potential reasons for the court to decide. And I'm afraid there may be really different interpretations in that space like there have been so far. So, I also propose to the ministry that this Article 148, which I consider to be good to introduce, but that it is clearly specified and that we, in fact, open the debate here to the end and be completely open to the public interest. So, it's a public interest to embarrass a person, which is ultimately that public interest because according to this interpretation it might be in case someone put the truth out. But if it's in the public interest, and I especially think it's a rather inaccurate first part of that article where it's spoken if, for example, it's related to some work of art if it's through some work of art, so I'm just opening up a debate about it in a way that I suggest further precision of this article against which I'm not, but which I think it belongs to those standards that we call rubber norms. So, which can always be interpreted differently on different occasions. I could make some personal examples here, but I don't think that's quite right. If so, and I see that there is a replica, so I can take it out later, where it was also a performance of some artists and it damaged both honor and reputation in a particularly sensitive way. Of course, I agree with everyone who has said that we politicians need to be extra sensitive, that we have to have a high tolerance threshold, that we have to be ready to take the punches, and then even if we are embarrassed, slandered and untrue, but the boundaries of colleagues and colleagues must be somewhere. But of course this doesn't apply in any way only to politicians. As for the non-depreciation of severe homicides, yes, well, I welcome you. Someone who killed a man can't enjoy the grace of antiquity. However, as the minister said, it will not refer to killings that are obsolete, and we remember they were rather short deadlines for these crimes. Therefore, I continue to represent the view that we should do so through the amendments to the Constitution, so that we should change the Constitution because then this would also apply to those works that are obsolete. Because if we have instituted the non-depreciation of the crimes of war profit and turned crime and brought them into the Constitution, that is, the immutation of these crimes in the Constitution, then there is no reason not to introduce them into the Constitution and the statute of grave murder. Because I've talked about it a lot when you put on the scale of human life and material good, then human life is of course invaluable, there's no price and we have to be able to protect it. In the sense that if nothing else satisfactory gets their families through trial for the perpetrators. Often investigations are very difficult and complicated and difficult for judicial authorities to come up with the possibility of pressing charges. And finally, the introduction of psychological violence in the family, to welcome, but I suggest you consider proposals and remarks that have come from both the Autonomous Women's House and other NGOs such as the Centre for Victims of War, the Women's Network "Peter" etc., because they also suggest further strengthening of criminal provisions regarding prostitution, for those who are recipients of services related to prostitution. And I return to psychological violence in the family, psychological violence and economic violence sometimes can be even scarier if they are longer than physical violence. Mental violence is violence that leads to a complete and absolute disintegration of personality. I'm sure you'll consider these remarks. Of course, in 2011, when the new Penal Code was passed one step back, I admit it. Therefore, moving violent behavior into the family into the criminal sphere, but now it is time to return it in every way to the Penal Code. Here, ladies and gentlemen, these are mostly major remarks. Reinforced penalties for the criminal offence of bribing MPs, we are also the most as a legislative body representative body of the most important sort when it comes to the trio of government in the state. And I also believe that we should not underestimate ourselves, and as this criminal act has been said, that is, strengthening the penalties for all representative bodies. And I kind of see it as a view, our view of the future. It will certainly come one day in parliamentary democracy when indeed the Croatian Parliament will be the centre of political decision-making in Croatia. And probably when one day, and I believe that this will happen, we also introduce a preferential vote in the Croatian electoral system. And if it's no different then probably through this initiative that I know some MPs signed today. And in the end, there was a lot of talk about the Convention on the Prevention of Violence against Women, that is, Family Violence. There's no reason why we, colleagues and colleagues, don't ratify it. I'm going to recommend some clubs to launch that initiative. It's an important convention, we were among the first to ratify all other conventions. For example, about the protection and promotion of the rights of disabled persons. So let's take that step. Because I don't think the convention brings any great burden, of course, in the budgetary sense. Therefore, support in first reading with a proposal to adopt indeed all correct proposals presented in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86614	Tomislav Jagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86615	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Minister Kosor, in his explanation of the legislative proposal, spoke very clearly of these amendments of the Penal Code actually going towards one goal, which is to preserve the value of us as our integrity as a person, and then the values of society as a whole, which are eventually entered in our Constitution. What is a key question, in fact, is motives or interests that would in such a difficult way bring down one person’s discretion or cause its family to be in such danger. Perhaps, in my opinion, this is a key question, if this is what my colleague Ingrid was talking about, that it is exclusively profit or what the media today actually include in their volume of sales of their own or of the classified information, or it is a public interest, and you have expressed doubts about that article that protects the media at the time when they make certain claims, which are related to the public interest. What remains for us, and here many advocates have just been referring to the judicial system, remains an individual to believe in the judicial system and believe that the judicial system will distinguish between these two motives and those two interests, meaning those relating to the public interest and those relating to other interests that can be individual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86616	Jadranka Kosor, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86617	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, well, yes, I'm actually pleading that this article that's being introduced, 148a, additionally arranged, to be clear or precise, means that it's not subject to different interpretations, because now let's do that poll between us, 151 MPs and MPs, what's that public interest? I'm sure there'd be different interpretations, which is a public interest. In my opinion, the public interest is to always be truthful, but only the truths will be brought out no matter how much they compromise or humiliate someone, how much harm they've done to them. So if they're true. However, in political struggles, especially in political struggles, information that misinformation, which is often not in any way true to the truth, is often placed. But when they repeat themselves 10 times, especially in the media, they become generally accepted because our people say, where there is smoke, there is fire, so if you tell someone 10 times that. She's having an affair, even though it's generally accepted behavior in men, of course, then it becomes true.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86618	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86619	Thank you very much. Comrade Kosor, I wanted to rephrase your speech, but I'd almost be in line since if men are generally accepted, I don't know who they're kissing with then. But good. So you talked about it, about shame, slander, reputation, honor, etc. And in this law it says that investigative journalism in the public interest will be a difficult disgrace only against the law when there is no public interest or other justifiable reason. How would you evaluate a portal that writes that one, i.e. I, as a parliamentary representative, spoke here in the Parliament, and says so, so Boro Grubisic, otherwise a convicted war crime, spoke in the Croatian Parliament. You don't have a phone or an editor or a responsible person on your portal, and it doesn't say, and you can't call. I got hundreds of text messages and calls because people didn't know I was convicted of a war crime, even though I had nothing to do with a war crime. Is it defamation, is it shame, is it public interest or is it not public interest that I am convicted of war crimes? How and with this legal proposal to qualify such...? And you know when I got it after 24, it stood on the portal for 24 hours, when I asked for the denials, then it was written like this on that same portal, Boro Grubisic was not convicted of a war crime, as if I had been tried at all. Look at the cynicism, so this editor, I'm not going to talk about it is a portal, but one very, very often read portal in the Republic of Croatia. And what I wanted to say is that, here I don't know, maybe the minister will tell me, and so will you, when we're talking about someone and for example. when it is known that someone has been convicted of crime for issuing false pension certificates, etc. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86620	Thanks, buddy. Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86621	Thank you very much. I'll start with this last one, I think it's the same thing. Of course... the one who received that confirmation knew it was actually a criminal offence. So there are simple things. What's the public interest? I think it's a public interest, you've mentioned some portals, it's perhaps the hardest, I don't generalize, there are really great ones, but there are those that, where you can't even use the ability to deny it because you can't. What's the public interest in that? The public interest is to respond, however, in 99% of cases it never happens, and even when you have the opportunity in, say, serious daily papers to deny something, it never, never has the power, first people decide hard because it doesn't, but it never has the power of what has set you together and that has washed you with cold water. It never has the same power because it's never been published in the same place, in the same letters, it's not on the cover, for example, if you deny the cover it'll never be on the cover and so on. So here... which is a very slippery terrain what we're talking about because it's very easy as politicians to accuse us of wanting to stifle the freedom of the media, so we need to be very, very careful and also talk about the facts themselves. And in the end, at first you said, and with whom they love, those men I mentioned. Of course, they know, however, that in public perception is written in plus, and these same women are written in minus, and you know it well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86622	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86623	Dear fellow Kosor, you asked yourself in your debate what public interest is, how to determine public interest, and somewhere at the end you said that subjects of public interest can be all the data that are true. I don't agree with you. We're talking about public figures, mostly politicians, now we're talking... it can't be of public interest, for example, to a politician's child's disease, and that's true. If a politician has a sick child and someone writes it, it's not a public interest. Fortunately, the media doesn't publish such things. But they publish other things that can also not be subject to public interest, and it's peeking not into... through a keyhole or through the door of a private home, except when it's not about domestic violence. That's for sure that it's a public interest and it needs to be a public interest. So in the case of the law and the judge, court practice will need to determine what is public interest, which is not a public interest. As unfair as we may be to judges, we should admit we are a young democracy and learn a lot of things, so those who cut grass for 200, 300 years we cut it very little. and there have been nadal judicial solutions at the time of communism, but we must not continue with the radical court decisions at the time of the multiparty. I use the word democracy with caution. So it's going to take us a long time to define that public interest and implement it through court practice. The weakest point in Croatia in all segments is the courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86624	Jadranka Kosor, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86625	Thank you very much. I only spoke when I spoke about politicians and felt that every truth about politicians was of the public interest to find out, and then I talked about politicians, so about us, I didn't talk about families, and I didn't talk about kids in particular. Therefore, what is all about mine and your work from both the past and the present if it is true the public has the right to know. As far as looking through the keyhole is concerned, I'd disagree with you all the way. It means that you need to be protected by family life, I absolutely agree. Here's a country like France, for example, by the unwritten rule of the media, has not recently written about private lives until recently to President Holland, but if this private life is related to promoting false values in public, then yes, for example. I was saying that when we discussed a referendum on marriage and advocating the sanctity of marriage in the Constitution as a community of men and women. Then I said they had the right to talk about it and it was advocated by those politicians who, of course, live in this sanctity of marriage. But if they live with three lives and advocate the sanctity of marriage, then the public has the right to see through the keyhole.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86626	Minister Orsat Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86627	Thank you very much. So the question of the definition of public interest is raised, and I see that this is one of the things that has been crystallized during the debate so far. It's something that we're completely open to discussing, maybe in some other direction, but I'll warn you, let's say another crime can lead them more, let's say unauthorized disclosure of a professional secret, and it also has a provision for you that there is no crime if disclosure of a secret is committed in the public interest. So again, we have given the court exclusive authority to determine what this public interest is and whether the discovery of a professional secret which was otherwise a criminal act was in the public interest. Why am I saying that? I think it's very difficult and almost impossible to legally define the public interest. He's something that depends on every specific situation. Here it's mentioned, it's not always public interest to write about someone and a politician if we're talking, who, for example, didn't point out some quality to get votes, and living perhaps quite the opposite of that, what you said as an example. In that case it's a public interest, but to highlight it from someone who's been moving it all along doesn't call for it, there's actually no public interest. So it's very hard to come and say now we're going to define we should actually write the whole book about what it isn't and there we have to trust in courts and work that they're just applying every specific situation because there's no final solution in advance, it's going to weigh in each individual case. But that's something that the European Court of Human Rights has, for example, a test of proportionality, again the court determines whether something was proportionate, whether the protection of a real restriction was proportionate to some goal that was achieved. So there's a test, it's also impossible to prescribe. So that's why I think we can try, we're here open, but I think it's impossible to define the public interest, that it depends on the specific situation that these situations have countless. Now let's talk about ordinary citizens. Now we're talking about politicians. What about ordinary citizens' public interest? What's justifiable? We were when we talked about the justified it might be an interest in a company where it's not public, but the interest of the shareholder to find out and also to criticise the administration for something that matters to him and that's justifiable interest. In order to protect that interest, he can express some things, he can also embarrass them, and we must give him the opportunity but who can decide. We can't prescrib it. The court has to weigh it down. Trade union activity, you know, some union guy can call the firm and accuse the administration of specific things, and that's justifiable interest in it because he's fighting for his union rights and I think we have to give him the exclusion of illegality in that case because he'd be absurd if that's why he fits. Maybe he wasn't telling the truth at that point, but it's justified because we think it's justified to talk about it. Sometimes there may be something that may not be true until the end, but if it's helped to discover something that's a real big problem, then we've done a good thing. It's always a danger to remove this provision to go towards auto-censorship, to speak less and not to expose ourselves to prosecution. And in that case, we're losing the important effects that, in fact, make us a better society. We're better company because some things are written and sometimes wrong but they need to be talked about, they need to be pointed out outside. And that's why I think the Penal Code here should be spared, he should be on the side. We have other mechanisms, what I said, there is damage compensation in the civil proceedings, we have the Media Act that regulates certain things, so this is just one small segment. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86628	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86629	Dear Ministers, you said, you asked a question, and you gave some answers when disclosing a professional secret is in the public interest. So let's say one example that's old and that was saving Mr. Francis Tudjman's first president, if you remember that's one example of whether it's revealing a professional secret, whether it's a crime or not. At the time, there were very big calls and the lady who discovered the professional secret was fired. I don't know if she's ever been employed afterwards. No more crime today, and no more crime is encouraged by politicians than they used to encourage, although such perception today, at that time it was hidden, was not revealed. It seems to me that we've gone a few steps forward and today there's a lot less and that politicians today are entitled to increase and that the public is far more sensitive to all the wrong moves of politicians and that they will no longer tolerate corruption, nepotism and everything that we once considered normal. Today, defence lawyers say, but that's the normal behavior of politicians so far. If it was abnormal, let's normally break that tradition and that's what you said the most important courts will from case to case decide and teach us what it is and what it isn't to reveal professional secrets in the public interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86630	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86631	Thank you very much. Well, here's why I, Mr. Minister, stand up all the time for the extra grinding of these standards that are very sensitive and are even more sensitive to the court's practice. I'm going to mention two, actually one case that you know for sure is actually a court practice without, of course, the intention of criticizing anyone. I'm just saying, remember that verdict in the case of a rape charge where the judge ruled it was actually the handling. So that's something I think there was a more precise norm in order for the verdict to be different. And the one I personally testified to, so I've talked about it here two or three times about the crime of rape in marriage, so the judge, I have the verdict, the woman has sued for multiple rapes in marriage, multiple rapes in marriage, and the judge finally ruled that there were no elements for a conviction because the woman couldn't bring witnesses to testify about rape in marriage. And rape in marriage is, of course, closed, so behind four walls, mostly at night, and most often except for little children screaming in the next room, there are no witnesses. So that's what I'm talking about and I think we have to do everything we can to make sure that those who do ultimately damage and the community are convicted and those who are in every way actually damaged to try to protect them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86632	Minister Orsat Milenic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86633	I absolutely agree, what is, I think, and should be talked about and such examples, of course we could now talk about how further court practice has been developing because as far as I know it wasn't the rightful decisions, they were later changed. So there's a correction in the system and for that kind of thing, so we don't need those triggers. But they're triggers because they're talking about one condition, social, actually where something like that can happen and that's the problem. But we're convinced I moved and in a state of consciousness total of it forward and we move on all the time. However, making decisions, the legal system, if we go too far, means if we try to predict any possible situation, not what the laws will have for us thousands of pages, but we will always be left with one beyond what they will not be able to apply to. So sometimes you have to go through a wider procedure and really give not only a court, we're talking about, and, well, this is a private lawsuit, but let's say where it's being prosecuted by official duty, you already have the State's Attorney's Office that defines also something they consider in one way or another, the court then determines it. No, we haven't, not us, but as far as I know, there's no other way anywhere that you can predict absolutely anything in advance, prescribe and then actually have, I'm saying it was some kind of computer trial to insert all the parameters and throw it out. It's just not there yet, it might be someday, but at this point, this is the best we've got. We need to work on education, we need to work on moving consciousness, that's what's most important. And that's why we need to talk about it. Any and bad judgment when it is to be spoken of should be criticised. You should, simply it's an argument, it's public, all that's public about it should be spoken of. All of us who make a decision, sign, have to stand behind it and be prepared and be exposed to public criticism without, of course, crossing certain borders when it is considered an inappropriate influence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86634	On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86635	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. Minister. This is one of the most important laws and it is good that, we commend on behalf of the HDSSB Club that this is the first reading and that we have space and time for one more quality, more relaxed debate, unlike the other legislative proposals that come here. We can simply seek consensus here on some important issues because this is one of the laws that protects not only the individual personally but also the state and security in the country as a whole. There have now been some open issues here, some of which are difficult and repeated, and it is good to repeat if we want to have a quality law and if we want the judiciary and courts to prepare for the laws that courts and judges need to implement to be functional, modernised, in this scope and direction that the judge who judges are not in doubt that I am assessing what this is in a particular case of public interest because everything that comes to court can be estimated as public interest. I said that in the replica, and I will repeat that there is no doubt, personally I am not for the assessment of the criminal act of disgrace as provided for in this proposal because it either needs to be thrown out of the law or it needs to be defined in a way that does not leave legal voids. If we are going to lead to in certain cases personally being given to judges in cases, we do not question the independence of courts and judges, but this one vacuum of evaluation of a personal which is a public interest in a particular case can lead to legal uncertainty. Because unequal court practice is also not good for criminal law and trial in the Republic of Croatia if we are witnessing that we are in a certain part still a society in a difficult crisis, not only economic but also moral, but also political. We are witnesses, and you ministers are also well aware that even when it comes to the activities of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, USKOK, there are strong anonymous reports before each election in Croatia, strong evidence against officials, politicians, whether at local or state level. So when the State's Attorney's report and the work itself of the State's Attorney's Office on certain cases and USKOK, there should be this electoral and investigative department where we should hire additional officials and investigators in the State's Attorney's Office and the USKOK in order to prove all of this more difficult because everything someone wrote was anonymously not, it was all a public interest. Now you stop it from going to that official part of the process, that's impossible. And if that's what we're burying the judiciary and the judicial system- that, if we have an ineffective judiciary- we have, if we have an increase in the course of these election seasons-- we have, whether all politicians are thieves, lunatics, whether they're lying, whether they don't have morals, all of this raises our entire system as a whole, and then I can freely estimate that we are in a difficult and political crisis. If we're going to have an independent judiciary, not one case that ended up in court, like in this part where we're talking about a criminal act of disgrace, there shouldn't be a cause for amending the Penal Code in that sense that we're spreading that "freedom" in a way that everything that is of public interest can't be assessed as a criminal offence. And we also question the functioning of the system and the state because as a person feels, it was a public official, a representative, a local official, an ordinary person, if someone gives himself the right to put all that is unofficially under quotes and questionnaires as public interest. And there's also a person who needs to be justified for months and years that actually it's not like that. As long as it's proved in court in the process we're currently in, it's all gone by together, and that person's forgotten. I am in favour of making the Penal Code functional, clear, provisions clear. If it is difficult to assess what the public interest is we are in charge, we have assessed everything in the laws and we can also try, as hard as it is, even though in 10 places this public interest in some articles is shown, it is not defined so that it should not be given freedom to the judge. But if we're going to bury the court and give so much jurisdictional power, in this case, it may question the functioning of the system, but also the very whole intention of this Penal Code that I think is good, that we are all expensive and you and your ministry have made a lot of efforts to have a modern criminal act like this, I can say free and European law and any change that has in practice a tendency to improve the protection system, and the criminal procedure itself is positive. But if we're going to act individually when there's a verdict in court that we're changing the law in that part, then we have an individualized criminal law that I don't think is right. Either this disgrace outside the law or define it so that it must remain modelled by other European countries. There's someone who mentioned, say, provisions in German criminal law, this one of us is Swiss, if we're going to have a system that protects everything that's equal who cares who's a representative, a politician or some private person, an ordinary man. We are all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, all equally concerned with laws, only that the crisis in the country is such that the focus of each reckoning with the system is transferred to politicians and the Parliament, to MPs. We've also got a felony bribery. Already when it begins to be put into the context of the importance of amending the Penal Code, we are already losing confidence in the system and we have already questioned the reputation of the state institutions if we are to change certain provisions of the law in this individualised way. So, absolutely support in the trend of functionalism, modernization, efficiency and everything else that we say is a norm of modern criminal law, but this assessment is very much under a great questionnaire because, as far as we're concerned with public work, we have different lobbys in the media, different lobbys in the judicial systems, this should also be spoken openly if we have an effective state and justice equal for all. So you also have a flood of newspapers, portals, where that emergency paper in stores is much more quality than certain newspapers and portals where everyone allows himself under the authority of freedom of the media to write and say whatever they want. Well, that's just as embarrassing. I am for professionalism, for perfection in any form of this part of which we speak to the judiciary today, but also in the part of freedom that concerns and professional exercise of duty. And if we're going to have media employees and journalists who are going to write articles on order, even in informational central shows of some television, announce tomorrow's newspapers that are going to talk about someone or something like it's an advert, not an informative show, then we've brought into a major crisis the system we're talking about and there's a need to make sure that we're the ones who need to decide what professionalism is, which is a quality law and who should be punished for what he does unprofessionally. As long as you resist your honor and reputation, as soon as you mention a parliamentary representative, everyone thinks we're one piece of crap and not a representative. And so we created our own system because of the crisis, because of thieving and corruption, that we are the lowest possible opinion of citizens. Well, I'm not surprised that I support this on behalf of the club, too. Today we've all signed to choose our representatives by name and name. He who has weight, who knows what he says, has the trust of the people, let him then take care of his honor and reputation, and not that, on the basis of the service of political parties, only listeners are placed here in representative benches. There have been little talk of the other changes you have made in this bill to amend the law. I counted 14, 15 around here. They are absolutely necessary in view of the practice. We mentioned this domestic violence. We had interventions of various associations from the Autonomous Women's House, to other organizations that cared about this change in this area regarding domestic violence. We at the HDSSB Club advocate that any violence of family, violent behavior, any mental abuse of the family, all that is repeated, and all that goes on at the risk of the family of any child in the family, any problems that arise, will be severely punished in the sphere of the Penal Code, not in the area of the offence. Because the one who once puts his hand on his family, on his wives, on his children will repeat it when we know it or don't know it. This is hard to prove because of fear, because of the way some families live today. And the crisis system that we're in has created domestic abusers and alcoholics, people who are on the streets because some of them may not have been guilty or obliged in the street, and then their anger, disappointment in the system and state show their families. That's what we need to prevent, and we are here for maximum punishment in the Penal Code of Such Penalty and this kind of opposition to the fundamental values of our country, and the family is protected by the Constitution. And here I believe that there should absolutely be room for protecting the victim here and that any violence, including mental or violent behavior, should be treated as a criminal offence. European law enforcement, the EU's directive in the chapter and the protection of children and minors against sexual exploitation and all other guidelines that are the legal gain of the EU. This only gives us an extra swing and quality of our Penal Code, because we are a full member of the EU and all the directives that apply, which will improve the system we as a club of representatives support. As for the practice and problem of how the courts will implement all these amendments that are proposed here, I am obliged above all to your ministry and government, but also to all of us that if we have modern laws and we are going to implement the EU acquis that through the courts and judges that work we do not need to burden them, we should give them some new procedures for which they are not currently ready. First of all, it is necessary to secure money in the state budget so that no longer be removed from your ministry's portfolio by 800 million kuna less. There is expected to be someone who knows how to implement these amendments to the law, and there is no money for it, there are not enough judicial officials, there are not enough investigators in neither the State's Attorney's Office nor the USKOK. Then there's not a very bright future if we don't make sure it's all a single string together, if we want to protect the system in a way that it's functional. That's what I'm going to say in the context of this change which are small values in relation to previous assessments, the Supreme Court's assessment that it's 2,000 kuna would now reduce this to 1000 kuna. We'll have buried dishes, we'll have a number of new procedures. So, the same thing we need to do is give ourselves a little more time to discuss whether we're going to be more protective of the system, even though there are frauds and thieves in every way, even in the one where you spoke in your opening statement, or if we're going to bury the courts, we're going to have an even bigger number of unsolved cases, we're going to have a non-functional judiciary. So, I am also at the HDSB's Club of Representatives for that, that any amendments to the law must follow what is ahead of us, which is to provide resources and people who will be able to implement this law in a way that has no burden on neither any fence nor brakes that can be implemented in a way that has enough educated people, enough education in the future, and we have the system that we have created for education but also enough resources to protect the state and society and individuals in a way that your portfolio, and the judicial system as a whole, has enough resources to put this as a burden and as a modernisation and a new time, changes that have in practice proved necessary to be enforceable. So you have absolute support here, but I will also ask that when the budget rebalancing is due to the economic crisis, you choose not to be a system that is only a system on paper that is excellent, and in practice unimpleable and that holes appear, that a stalemate arises, which endangers the legal system and the security of citizens as a whole. That's where you should try to prove it's possible to keep it that way. As regards other changes, therefore, criminal offences which have been shown in practice that they are necessary to change from hacking into computer systems to those general changes in the general section of the Penal Code. This is something we absolutely support, and we are now witnessing that here in the debate it has crystallised that the focus of the debate has been placed on these crimes, so slander, insult, shame, how it will work in relation to the procedures of small values, family violence, EU directives. And now in that general section where you've suggested changes and additions, you certainly have support. You also have support in the part where you have, therefore, explained certain ambiguities legally in the additional explanations and where this has proved necessary, therefore for the functioning of the system. Let's say this reduction in heavy thefts, easy thefts. It has been shown that in 30% of cases they are minors or younger minors where this kind of banal form of theft can qualify as a difficult form of theft. So here in a certain part of you are absolutely right, there should be more intensification on that rehabilitation of such people, on a system where we all have to try to prevent it together and not something that has under quotes "banal" frame of theft will be qualified as a heavy theft for which the sentence of prison is predicted until I know 5 years in prison and so on. Here in some of these modernist changes and in the part where the system adapts to practice there you have absolute support. But let's once again clean up and discuss this so that we have in this part of what has been shown in all the debates that it's controversial to get really one quality law where there's no left, right, where we're all equally interested in protecting the legal system and the state as a whole. You have that support on behalf of the HDSSB club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86636	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86637	Thank you. Well, here's my colleague Salapic, I think it's really bad when it happens that because of one, indeed, most of us have perception, poor judgment of the court, this is how the Croatian legislation reacts and changes. And of course, the impression is that it reacts so quickly because this journalist is freely able to say pro-regimely oriented, or inclined to the current government. I am keenly interested that, for example, this verdict applied to Milan Ivkosic would he change this part of the legislation this quickly and this way? It would be really interesting to see, and in what way it would react. And it's really not good that it changes so quickly, lightly and continuously. On the other hand, you did well to highlight this article regarding Parliamentarians. Why only draw out representatives whether in the European Parliament, so let us extend it to all the officials. Whether there is or can be talked about the corruption of these representatives of the county assemblies, city councils, municipal councils and all state officials. Well, then let's spread it if we want to. That's why we have this recent affair, we've had an attempt at bribery, and there's still a procedure under way in town hall if we're going to be consistent or let's not do that at all when these crimes are covered by Croatian criminal law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86638	Josip Salapic, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86639	Your Honor, you're absolutely right about what you said. So maybe there was really an intensity that this part of the disgrace through practice tried to change. Meanwhile, cases have emerged under the applicable law in court and it turns out that individual judgments require changes to the law. We're absolutely against it. When you mentioned the MPs and all the officials and you're right about that. I mentioned in my debate that for every election cycle, we are now being followed by elections for the president of the Republic of Croatia, it has already begun and will continue to continue, that you will have extensive anonymous applications, strong evidence of people, lobbys, groups, media portals, etc. where everyone has proof that one of the candidates is such or such, and there is no evidence. Heavy tasks are being put ahead of USCOC and the State's Attorney's Office that, before each election, a large anonymous application is considered to be necessary under official duty while a candidate who can be the most honest man or the most unfair excuse is that or not the election cycle is passed. There is also a threat to the fundamental constitutional rights of people who run in certain elections and who get on the nerves of one or another group where they prepare these things to drive out the judicial system. I'm against it. If we want to have the Penal Code equal for all, then there is no individualism and then as we have already discussed the public interest in this criminal part of the disgrace or it is out of the Penal Code because it makes no sense if in court practice everything that an individual judge can put into his reasoning to get rid of these things on the agenda, that it is all public interest. So, to remove this object from his own door, he will estimate that some person, a media house, a journalist wrote it all in the public interest, spoke some false truths in the public interest because everyone considers it through these public officials, mayors, mayors, mayors that it is all in the public interest. That's true, but if you have a system that will endanger you personally in every step you're doing, then we have a problem because it needs to be solved by law completely different.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86640	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86641	Thank you very much. My colleague Salapic, I will continue to do what my colleague Djurovic said, we did not agree on what we would say in the replica. In this regard, Article 339 has the pretext of bribing MPs. Is it auto-naked or masochism by our own agents? There is therefore no bribery of officials, mayors, mayors, presidents and ministers in government etc.? Why is this called bribing MPs, and the further text also speaks of other representatives in representative bodies? So, municipal councils, county councils and city councils. So let's look at any convocations or this assembly of parliaments, is there any doubt here of bribing MPs with any MPs? If there was someone here and there were words about the Mandate-Immunity Commission then he did it as mayor or as mayor, not as parliamentary representative. We know about who, not to name now who it's about right now. Well, that's really funny! And what kind of counsel can do anything by himself to make something out of this House and get a bribe I don't know from which group in society? So what are we talking about? We have indeed scored ourselves an auto-naked goal, or we ourselves are masochists, and as you yourself said, the people consider us a waste. Well, we are when we think like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86642	Josip Salapic, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86643	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Representative Grubisic, I think this provision should nevertheless apply to everything, and so it is, not only to representatives but also to all the representative bodies of the council, but also to ministers, state officials who find themselves in this corrupt criminal act of bribery. In the debate I spoke in the context of the Croatian Parliament and the emphasising of this criminal act of bribing MPs as possible, it is possible that one of the MPs, all of these are people who are equally before the law, to do something that is not in accordance with the positive law of the Republic of Croatia, but we have made a contribution ourselves. I believe, I pointed out this in the debate by wanting to put emphasis on the current collection of signatures for the referendum because if the crisis is really economic in the country in my personal opinion, the crisis is also a morale and political crisis because the people watching the Croatian Parliament and what we say every day, when they see half-empty benches, when they see representatives accused of criminal acts, when they see people who are incompetent, when they see their hard life at home, all their intensity and dissatisfaction with the state throws at the Parliament and parliamentary representatives because we are all present daily in all our citizens' homes through the media, through television, through what they follow and listen. I'm against the fact that all MPs are equal, that all agents are thieves, that all MPs are here... for the salary of 15 thousand kuna and that they do nothing. I don't think that's the case. And then if we are fair to ourselves and to our people, then we will support the initiative either to change the electoral law or to a referendum of a group of citizens where we are looking for signatures to choose the name and last name of the people so let the people decide who is capable, who is honest and who is doing his job, to represent their country and their people in this Parliament. Until then, we have these things where we put emphasis on bribing MPs, where from one case we become all thieves, all trash, and we all deserve to go home from this high house. That's not fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86644	Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86645	Dear counterpart Salapic, you said at the very beginning of your debate that you believed in the independence of judges. I believe in the addiction of judges and on that... If I believed in the independence of judges, it's like signing a... Bianca exchange. Here, I'll tell you a few examples, and I could set these examples by tomorrow morning. It takes 20 years to discuss the legacy of a well-known Croatian painter. 20 years. In 20 years, all the property that was in one of Zagreb's attics was robbed. That's what the police and the courts and the judges are involved in. 20 years. Who do you trust here? The Minister knows something about it, and the DORH knows about it. 20 years and they're at the beginning. The trial, I'm talking about the case in HINA, it took 14 years and HINA almost went bankrupt because of it, 14 years... slow. And you say I believe in the independence of judges. I believe in the addiction of judges, but a little later you said that there are lobbys in both the media and the lobby in the judicial system. If there are lobbys, the lobbys are certainly not organized to protect the public interest, but to protect the interest... and lobbys exist. And in the media, especially those tycoons of the media, who deal with everything and everything. From the building to the mob. And there are such media, they're not journalists, they're bosses. So it's the bosses. And there are... in the judiciary, it... it doesn't work, it does everything that doesn't do the job so then innocent citizens get hurt who have nothing to do with them. Our judiciary is in a knockout, and we're doing nothing to make it better.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86646	Josip Salapic, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86647	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Vuksic, I would not agree in a global way if all judges were the same, that the entire judiciary was such a difficult crisis. It is true that there are problems, but it is also true that we tried to prevent it through the State Judiciary Council and the change of the Constitution in 2010 where the election of the President of the Courts still controls the way certain judges do, how long they take them. There are sanctions for those who don't. Approximately, there were several cases where we had everything and everything when it came to certain judges individually. And now, if we look so that we don't believe in the independence of the judiciary, then we have an even bigger crisis than we can imagine because as we talked about lobbying in politics, in justice, in the media, in every system, and even the most sacred one can appear... that there are people who are unprofessionally, unquality, unconsciously and unprofessionally doing their job. It is now the task of the state to prevent it, but the problem is if in the foundations of the state government there is this protection of people who are unfairly doing their job. We have passed the perfect laws, this is a law that, these are amendments and amendments to the law, it has been a long time for this law to get the title of European law through the implementation of European law, a lot of time has passed, reforms and justice where both this ministry and the past ministry in the past government are making great efforts in Chapter 23. I wouldn't judge the whole system by bribery and bad, but it needs to be solved... in that grain that's wrong, that's where I agree with you, that's the mission of either this government, any future government, if we're going to follow the system, then we should also act in terms of cleaning and judicial systems, from people who are unfairly doing their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86648	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86649	You see, my colleague, these changes are also on the trail to send a message that they are not all the same, that there is no profession on one side where corruption and every evil cannot be confused in any branch of government, however, but also that they are not all the same, that not all journalists are the same, that not all politicians are the same. So I don't think it's a good idea for you to think that you should have thrown out the shame or left it the way it is. It's the law that's changed, and it doesn't need to be run away from. Because it is apparent that it does not work in practice, does not work in practice or not as the legislator and whose intensity, what intensity it was. Of course, it takes a long time and wait on the one hand how court practice will be created, but a government that is sure of itself is not afraid to give court authority. Public interest, so who, well not, trial, especially trial, criminal..., so it's not administration, it's a complex intellectual process and determining public interest is one of the easier things that all the court determines. You say politicians here shouldn't be like you and you look back at it, and I'm asking you a colleague, who's going to put together lists of initiatives that come forward today as citizens' initiatives? It will also become a referendum, or those who are the sole target of such referendums will enter the Assembly by 2% or 3%. So the crisis of politics is but it is solved exactly in a way that in all possible segments in all laws separates truth from lies. And in violent behavior, you say it's one big delusion that there's a crisis that promotes why men beat women. And I ask you, why doesn't he beat his boss but beat his wife home?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86650	Josip Salapic, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86651	Your Honor, I agree completely with you in all of what you've said. As far as this domestic violence is concerned, I acted here in the context of the speech in that we are not protecting any bully but that the system itself is in crisis. When I talk about it, there is no one to protect it, but quite the opposite, we advocate that every violence in the family is a crime. And you personally had the opportunity to be a justice minister so you know the system well, so it's hard to assess the public interest and it's a difficult task for anyone who deals with law especially in this part of the criminal trial because the assessment would either be left or thrown out because it would be easier for any judge to repeat that it's a public interest. We agreed that certain things should be changed. So if each of us is willing to guarantee our integrity and gratitude to our voters who have given us the opportunity to in this House of High Value and to advocate the state system and to pass laws that apply equally to all citizens, then we must be prepared beyond the policy to change the electoral system. Why did I mention that? Because there's no will. Who defends us in this House's assembly that we gather together all the clubs of MPs and MPs and change the electoral system as it was for the European Parliament only with 14 constituencies, that no one defends us. We have separated the people from Parliament, and that is why this initiative will succeed in the signatures in the referendum, and we will have to change the Constitution because we have made it clear ourselves that most of our people are being separated because the picture of the Parliament today is like this. We can't stop it, we can't give ourselves an excellent grade when there's a number of us here for totally insufficient, maybe not enough. That is why I was talking about elections and how we should change Parliament in our thinking.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86652	Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86653	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Salapic, first of all, I think you've touched a good topic, which is the theme of the media, or we're aware that the multi-party democracy is primarily resting on free-cutting information where the media is extremely important and I think you're absolutely right when you talk about that journalists are often not responsible for what they write, and often public people not only know how to do irreparable damage to politicians. So the damage has already been done despite the denials, excuses someone has suffered damage to his reputation and his honor has already suffered. And that is why I will agree with my colleague Ingrid and say that these provisions on disgrace should remain in this law, and even this institution is particularly embarrassing to narrow down any judgments that will arise when they are governed by this provision of the law. Secondly, you mentioned domestic violence, as well as a colleague, Kosor, or a difficult evidence of domestic violence in many cases. I think that colleague Kosor mentioned rape in marriage while psychological violence in the family will also be extremely difficult to artificial and prove. We have often had discussions and on the Committee on Shell Rights are often victims who suffer mental violence do not feel victimized by various cultural, educated and other preconditions, so here I predict some difficulties. Also here you mentioned our case law is not even, I hope as much as possible to us as legislators that we will do everything to get up more because we have heard several examples but I can also list to you some where the court in almost identical cases in one case ruled like this in another by practically referring to the same provisions of the law. But just so we're clear, I'm not into being a freak. We can't prescribe everything by law. Something has to stay in court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86654	Josip Salapic, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86655	Thank you, Vice President. It is true that something should be left behind to evaluate experts and persons who work here now I am talking about judges and court cases that appear... but shame as the name of the criminal act of qualifications until it was called disgrace was in the sphere of thought to call it gossip or gossip. And now imagine, every honor to professionals but the media system is a system that is subject to financial interests. From the county where we come from, you know well, and I won't say names because they're not worthy of mentioning in this House of High School certain "professionals" journalists where someone writes an anonymous application against you or against me, and then you get a picture half a metre bigger than with a graduation or from a degree in a bigger picture on the cover, you get a questionnaire in the title that you're under investigation of USKOK or state bodies, and we've changed the law in a way that if an investigation is launched, you get a solution to the investigation. There are no solutions, there are no procedures, no one asks you anything, but you've gone into one circulation medium and you've got a questionnaire on your head but a photo of a half-meter and a title to be investigated by the SCREAM and the State's Attorney's Office. What's the public's concern is whether it's so or not you've taken a nice picture of everyone thinking of commenting on coffee here's another thief from the Parliament. Here, you see, that needs to be prevented. Well, it's an honor to a professional and a journalist who went to college and knows what professionalism is. But some person who's going to write for money for a petty interest what someone orders, then it's called a political lobby that has an interest in the media system, and it needs to be prevented by criminal law. We're all equal. I'm willing to stop it. So if we're going to prevent this, then we're going to leave this behind, if we're going to be easing and just commenting on what it is, then this has to be thrown out... it's not going to benefit and we're going to get a change of law anytime soon. That's what I'm supposed to protect myself for, and I hope so, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86656	Dinko Buric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86657	Thank you. Dear counterpart Salapic was perfectly told at one point when they were mentioned, when the perception of the public towards the MPs was mentioned. It is true that we are very often hit by the public and the media, but there is something else to say that we are very much responsible for the perception that we have in the public and in the media. Not only in the presence of the sessions but also in the decisions we make here and in many of the councils and before this call have been made even in this session. And then how do people perceive us rather than the way they experience us? We had opportunities here and in this conference when the 2012 budget was adopted, I thought I was a representative from the ruling majority who was then mayor of the city of Nova Gradiška who refused to vote for the amendment to put a bypass around Nova Gradiška in the state budget, or to build a water pipeline in his town. We had the same situation that we had before that minister who came from Slavonia and Baranja, I was already saying that, and I will always repeat that which was the Minister of Agriculture, and then he sent the World Cup to Biograd at sea instead of Slavonia and Baranja. And how we could expect the public to perceive us rather than in such a way. And not to say all the decisions here by raising the hands of truly obedients on the party lists have ruined and destitute the people. And it's good, Boro said here, a colleague of Grubisic, article 339, talks about MPs only, it should be on officials. After all the decisions that have been made and what have been made here and what has been made to the Croatian people by decisions in the Croatian Parliament, we should be happy about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86658	Thank you. Reply to the replica Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86659	Thank you, Vice President. We agreed on a lot of thesis, and today we were together in Ban Jelačić Square to sign this initiative for a referendum on direct selection of representatives by name and last name and you have seen dozens of citizens who have spoken to us in the discussion on how the Croatian Parliament works, on the political thesis that is being spoken here, on the way where these people sitting here have large salaries, what political parties, bosses, ruling, options, opposition and so on, which we all represent together. If the time has not matured for this political and moral crisis to be resolved in a way that brings power back to the people because it is indeed true that the current system is not right and that political parties and who decide who will be given the opportunity to prove or not prove themselves a representative in parliament. ... I was a bit pathetic and I was dealing with Croatian history and the history of the Croatian state and the rights sometimes went down there, a little different looked this assembly, it was the same, when it started talking, it started with the Honorary Croatian Assembly, I don't know who should say it today if you look at the composition of Parliament and about what was happening in the years before us and after what was going to happen to us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we don't give the opportunity to finally restore the legitimacy of the representative who is the representative of the people here to this High House... the whole society as a whole. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let us not forget, from this House come the prime ministers, come the ministers, come the presidents of the state, this is the House which recruited the most important leaders in Croatian history, the largest statesman of the Croatian Parliament, all those who tasked the Croatian state to sit here today and be an independent state. If we don't support this, then we either fear for our own chair as some political party leaders or we don't support it, we don't love our people because we want to say that some of those who are sitting here are afraid for their own personal profit and not for their own country's interest, so today we signed it and we support the choice of representatives by name and last name.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86660	Tomislav Jagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86661	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Salapic, here's how at the beginning of the debate, I got a sentence from the minister, a respected minister, when he was explaining this bill, so I'm going to repeat it. So today we're talking about values and protecting values, that's the key thing. And here's what we're saying, actually, and we're creating values for our actions, our speeches, our messages to the public. You used hard words about the perception of public representatives and you said everyone thought so. I don't agree with that, of course, not everyone thinks so, not everyone thinks alike, there's a negative perception in the public, we're all aware of that, there are media that spreads that negative perception. And what saddens me today has contributed to such perception. You said if I understood you well that collecting a list for a referendum on the change of electoral system would prevent party listeners from coming to the lists. Here in this House are the people who, by direct choice, are the mayors, the mayors, the mayors, they couldn't, they were on the list but they couldn't be here by direct elections to get citizens' trust. There are many people sitting here who have so far proven themselves and proved themselves in their professional work. So the essence of the whole story is that our democratic system is developing, it's emerging, we're a young democracy in some kind of historical... So our system is developing and what we are trying to keep this system stable in the interests of citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why we're not doing well, calling us party listeners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86662	Josip Salapic, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86663	Well, if you're a colleague, then you're not a party listener, so why don't you sign some kind of initiative that's come along, which I'm sure you think you'd support as a person, and I wouldn't want to personally insult you, and this is how I'm going to be polite. I said, if I made a contribution in one word to change the electoral system of the Republic of Croatia, then I would be pleased. You had the amendments' budgets, let's say from your county too, you had a colleague from your county who I think you respect and have her qualities which can neither be guilty nor obliged to be stuck on a pillar of shame because she had to listen to her party's political decisions. When a representative by name and last name can be separated from his party's leadership, because who says the party leader is the most honest person, the most upright politician, the greatest statesman and the greatest... this time was the leader of this party, of the parties or of any other party. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, if we're really going to talk honestly now, if I've made a contribution to this I didn't want to make any of the current Parliament's call, don't give God any of the former colleagues who are retired today and those who will come after us, none of us have been subscribed here to see a pension except for the honor of exceptions that have been able to maintain it with their ability and wisdom. But we are in a time where every move we make and every decision we make is measured not by scale but by tons of scales. And now watch out, today among people, among the people, and talk seriously about what they think about what we're doing here today and we're sitting here, these are negative grades, and that's what party clientism has just contributed to. If we're going to give democracy space to prove different, then you and I will go to elections with our name and name. If anyone needs us, they'll vote, if not, we'll know our own worth. Sometimes they all take off because they think they're God's days. When you become a representative, Minister, you think there is no one above you but you, and in fact life is very simple: there are capable, honest, incompetent and dishonest, people who work for their people or work against the people. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86664	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86665	Thank you very much. Comrade Salapic, a little more about the public interest. So I also refer you to this Article 148a, which states the exclusion of illegality for the crimes of insult and severe disgrace with the desire to all together put the strength to make this article which I think is unsettled, to make it precise. Because it is said here that there is no crime if the perpetrator of their characteristics, means the traits of the crime were achieved in the scientific, professional, literary, artistic work. I'll only single out that one. It means the traits of a crime that are found to actually exist, but if it was achieved in the works of art and if it is in the public interest. So the public interest can't be a lie, it can't be a public interest if something isn't true then it can't be a public interest. I think that definition of what is public interest and how this act of disgrace that remains in the Penal Code, how to define and I think that we actually have an easy job, we just have to choose bravely, regardless of any criticism of the public, to see what we actually want. That's actually the real question. Because if someone tells a lie and shames someone in the work of art, and that's clearly said about the elements of a crime, then the matter is very clear. The crime or the literary work is actually very clear. It is not a public interest to present the lie as a common good in both scientific and literary or artistic works.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86666	Josip Salapic, answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86667	Thank you, Vice President. Mrs. Kosor, it can't be a public interest in a flat-rate assessment of anyone or of those who need to enforce it under these criminal laws. Why? So either we're going to make that clear, no matter how hard it is to define it, we have to try it if we want to leave this in the Penal Code. We're going to have a mass of objects and a mass of people who will unfortunately be released, and they're telling the truth because it's going to be assessed as a public interest. We have made good copies of some European criminal justice solutions, and some countries are not exactly like Croatia. Unfortunately, the country in which we live is in a state of moral political decline, and then we have problems because a growing number of judgments appear precisely on this subject. Now that a particular case has appeared that it's not going to go so easily, we're going to change that part, and we're not going to pull out completely, we're going to leave a light version out, so we're going to call it a heavy disgrace. So it will either be a criminal act as it is or will not be or will be covered by a legal system of objects that will all be subject to public interest. Then we all have to agree together so let's try to define it as awkward as it may be at first, so we'll see in practice because it works or it doesn't work. If not, it should go out of the Penal Code because it is only one segment that endangers a free work of people who do their work fairly. And imagine a judge who's not ready so some public figure comes to him, so no matter what we want to say, we're all equal to the law and you who were prime minister appear in court differently will look at you, differently, to some person who came to court for the first time and speaks from a whole other sphere. So there's a problem, and the law should be the same for everyone. then it is necessary to define what is the public interest to protect equally all citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86668	Minister Orsat Milenić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86669	Thank you very much. So two things. First of all, the debate has led to the fact that the law, in this particular case, if I talk about severe disgrace, changes because of some judgment, even if certain media, journalists, etc. are favored. It's just not true. If that wasn't true, you can see from the reactions of these very people to these proposed changes, because if it were done to someone in favor then I guess you'd do what they want. So I can't accept that it would go to anyone and that it would change for anyone. It's just not true. And I'm aware that it would have been a lot easier for me if I'd gone moving all this. He'd probably be a favorite in circles that mattered and mattered, but we went to do what we thought was right. And I pray when things like that are brought out to look at what's really going on, and it's really happening that we're exposed to these criticisms of exactly what you're telling us here right now is that we've got them. Well, they wouldn't be critical if we did what they wanted us to do. So that's a fact. Secondly, we're talking about definition, so either we're talking about not changing or we leave it the way it was before or we throw it out. You've had item 3 before, or we still have it if we don't change it. There is no criminal offence if the perpetrator proves the truthfulness in the order he made, the factual claims he made and conveyed or the existence of a serious reason for believing in its truthfulness. It's something the court will determine again. So if we don't change anything, we have a serious reason that the judge will come back and think whether the reason is serious, whether it isn't, evaluate etc. So, I'm talking about what dilemmas are ahead of us. So if we stay on the same thing again, we have the same thing. I think it's more of a public interest and more subject to control than a serious reason like now. A serious reason I really can't define myself. I mean, I can, but I'm talking about what's on our desk. Third, it is said, and now we have begun to talk about this article in the 339th bribery of MPs. So, please, I've also asked my colleague at all what is the history of this article why it was introduced. First, we don't bring it in now, he exists in the Penal Code. We're just talking about punishment, because I think if there's an act, it means if it's been evaluated three, four years ago that it's supposed to be predicted as such that it's not right to punish it more lightly than to bribe a minister or someone else or even an employee in the ministry. So that's what we do now. Whether this work should exist or not is different. I mean, well, here's if someone proposes to go outside we'll consider as well as any other suggestions. However, at the moment why it was brought here, I'm just saying that there was also a practice that was built that in the vote, MPs are not what is treated as the official and responsible person that these others are. And it is not true that others are not covered, officials, officials, etc. State officials are. And then it was pointed out and those were the solutions in practice. I'm talking about four years before it was brought in, just some things and let's not talk about the Parliament. Let's see, maybe at the local level, they're not covered in criminal terms, and that's why it went into that kind of solution. If there's one, I think we need to level it with these others. If the opinion is that we should go outside and we are open to talking and about it to others, it can be solved in another way. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86670	Replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86671	Dear Ministers, I also believe that this part of the law does not change because, as one pro-regime journalist was previously said, convicted in the first degree and that is why the ministry reacted. The reactions were from different sides and different worlds. I think the same would have happened if Mr. Milan Ivkosic, my first mentor in 1978, had been convicted and that it would have reacted as well. However, Mr Ivkosic does not deal with what Mrs Lukic is dealing with. Mrs. Lukic touched the nest, which is linked to the state in economic crime. So the worst form of crime, and that's why there's so much shit in the public. Mr Ivkosic deals exclusively with politics. She doesn't need an address about MPs going out. As far as I'm concerned, they suggest that they be not MPs, but officials. I agree with you that the officials are already inside, but the officials are also MPs, so then I don't know why I should, I agree specifically with the MPs as if they're more corrupt than the others. No, they're not. This is what I agree with my colleague Grubisic, and I was saying about who's going to offer the stupid MPs money when MPs don't decide anything anyway, but decides on the other side of Mark's square, the government decides. The government is proposing laws, and most of them write on noteboards for what they raise their hands. And that's exactly what this example of HDSSB colleagues have mentioned, that MPs are voting at their own expense to please their leaders.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86672	Minister Orsat Milenic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86673	Thank you very much. So, absolutely as I said we didn't introduce this crime, it exists. If and I said you could get rid of it the other way. If there's an initiative to do that, we don't. So, I would never want to come and get myself into a situation where in any way, the Parliament is being insulted or we're pointing out that MPs would be worse than anyone, neither do I think, nor is that intensity. There's a simple piece of work. And now, if there is one, we're going to level the sentence. If we go outside, put a proposal we can put him under the definition of responsible persons and we can solve it differently. But I'm going to say one thing, that he doesn't decide in the Parliament, that he decides on the other side, and they write the note, he wouldn't sit here all day, and he answers all your questions, and he actually makes an effort to communicate, to make some changes, but I'd sit in the ministry, watch TV, wait for him to vote. So it's not like that. I can't accept that. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86674	Well, there's no difference between MPs and the government. They're on the same program, from the same coalition. Joseph Salapic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86675	Thank you, Vice President. Well, the truth is there's no difference between MPs and ministers, but sometimes it turns out there are, so life brings a lot of things to practice. Well, Minister, here's the end of it, you're one of the few ministers who talks and talks with the MPs, and I think that's a good thing. This is the first reading, it's not an emergency procedure, and today in the debate we have crystallised certain problems in which in the second reading we will show whether we can solve something, primarily for the sake of legal certainty, uniform court practice, a functional court procedure that makes sense. And if there's a point now that there's a possibility of a certain legal uncertainty or legal void, we can fix it. So all the debates, including on behalf of our club and other colleagues, were followed by no protections against anything. We're all the same. We have only been honored to represent the interests of our political options and our end in a certain part of Croatian history, and we are all responsible equally. So there's the tendency to spread to all the officials, to clearly know that the emphasis on MPs makes some impression that it's about corrupt MPs that we're not all the same. Right? That's where we agreed. That's why the debate was. However, I say we have time. This is the first reading to try to define this to make it easier for the courts, so that we actually serve the judicial authorities to carry out the proceedings more easily, to be more efficient. That's why this debate is good quality, it has its weight and value for you. And you're not one of the ministers who goes in there, you come out, but you're still going through certain bodies of the assembly. And I find that honest and real.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86676	Minister, will you answer? You won't answer. Now we're going to take a break by 3:00, and the first one will be the HDZ Club and colleague Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86677	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the respected Davorin Mlakar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86678	We have before us a law on amendments and amendments to the Penal Code, and there really wouldn't be any need for me to announce it this way that it doesn't seem to me that one part of this morning's debate has been spent advertising referendums to change the electoral legislation that seems to me to have nothing to do with this law. But that's that freedom of performance that's hard to channel in some right direction. I'm not talking about amendments to electoral legislation, I'm going to stick to the Penal Code. A few things that we hold to be commendable, colleagues before me have already spoken of. The first is that, especially this serious law, goes into two readings and at least occasionally the government gives up its style to bring in almost 90% of the regulations in the emergency procedure. Secondly, I think it is important to say and to praise that the proponent in this law has introduced a standard of non-depreciation of serious murders, therefore criminal acts of murder, of qualified forms, which shows, among other things, that we were right when we talked about changes to the Constitution, that it is in its own sense and in the sense of the norm to be found in the Penal Code. The second question is whether it would be possible to extend this standard, only this norm, retroactively to the already outdated killings. But given all the complications that could happen, at least the quality of the solution is that from the entry into force of these changes, further difficult killings can no longer become obsolete, and it seems to us that this is a good solution and that it belongs to the Penal Code. What I'm kind of inspired to talk about after some assembly clubs is what may not be popular today, but I'm still going to let myself open that topic, or continue. It's an article of the 339th Law. It is clear to me that there are parts of the law that have been in force since before, that it was not all a matter of these changes, but when it was already found or showed the need to change this law then it might be worth considering, and we still have time between the two readings, to change some of the norms that exist, and maybe they are not the best or the happiest ones to be solved. Where I wouldn't praise so much the government, it's a fact, and the minister was saying that no law from his portfolio would be tailored to individuals, according to a case, and that should really be the practice of all ministries and practices in the adoption of any law. On the other hand, I can't help but recall that we've been calling the names and last names of people in front of this House, because the public recognized the need to pass laws relating to specific people. So it happened that we had a law called Lex Komadin, that we had a law called Lex Perkovic. I will not call this law lex Lukic, but it is quite coincidental that this law happened shortly after the problem created in public by the verdict of a journalist. What we hold in mind is that, regardless of whether or not, given how it is written in the light of this law on page 3 where the Government proposes the law speaks of the legal systems that we are closer to or which in some way were the basis for our legal system, so we remain at the level of Central European law, and we deny the excessive influence of Anglo-Saxon law. That's what I wanted to point out especially because I think it's particularly important for this case. In order not to misread criminal responsibility in a particular case for shame, or the crime of slander that is being committed to journalists, I think it would be much more acceptable and better understood if the severity of this crime were to be minorised and the civil responsibility for the damages that these journalists are working for. In particular, our proposal would be to consider between the two readings, that regardless of the criminal responsibility, and how difficult it was to determine the intention, the public interest, and all that would be some of the traits of the works, to consider putting special insurance in civil liability for the damage of the publisher, let's say if we were talking about printed media or media owners, for damages that would be done by such a criminal act, shame, slander or so. And we think that in this way as a general prevention, such a provision would be extremely valuable and that it would in some way ensure that what they come up with as information on anyone and on public persons is treated with sufficient seriousness and verification to get rid of what is often almost basic action, as it is liked to say, the yellow press or the media that sometimes exclusively because of the damage comes out with certain data. What I think as a principle remark that perhaps it is not good for this law, is that the definitions of the concepts used in this law are set out in Article 87 of the Law. I think it would be much more correct, nomotechnically correct to place the definitions used in the law at the beginning of the law itself. And speaking of definitions, one concrete remark because there will be links and later articles is the definition of what is in some way apostrophe in many of the discussions, is the definition of a specific bribe as it is now transferred from the previous law. It is not only that there is also a definition of what computer systems are, such as official secrets, which are documents, whether they are documents or public documents, so the definitions defined by some other laws are repeated, but it seems to me, in particular, that the definition of bribes as referred to in Article 87, paragraph 23, seems to be out of the ordinary and could be misused in cases where that would not be the case at all. Why I am particularly pointed out, I will respond immediately from the introduction I was talking about, which is Article 339. Penalty law. Briberying MPs. The principle remark is our club if you allow my personal, regardless of how anyone understands it, I think that the dignity of the Croatian Assembly has been a lot of talk, but unfortunately its action is often the way it works, and under the height of the public, the work of the Parliament is contrary to what we would like to be, to be Parliament in our society. However, as a parliamentary representative, I cannot accept and I believe that most of you feel alike, that a special crime is giving or receiving bribes from parliamentary deputies. I know it's the norm that's in the law, which was the reason that she entered the law exactly like that, I don't know, but at least on the surface it seems to me that it's a much more serious crime without saying that the much greater possibility of a criminal offence for giving or receiving a bribe from an executive head than those found in representative bodies. It is by definition to you who does the job, quite clearly, that those who exercise executive power, oversee its implementation are much more at the opportunity, I do not want to say that they use it, to be a victim or a prisoner of such a criminal act as prescribed by the law. There are enough norms that speak of bribery, corruption, bribery or bribery to be found as a special criminal group provided for by criminal law. So what I think most of these acts of corruption are legally foreseen, this, this article is unnecessary. If, however, you think he must remain because the MPs are particularly marked by this law, then try to at least define him somewhere where you define responsible persons, even if they belong to irresponsible persons, define otherwise, but do not provide for a special criminal act of bribery not only now more parliamentary representatives, but also representatives of representative bodies, therefore both at the level of local and regional self-government. What has also been said before, and we also resort to it, the initiative of many civil society associations, one has received its concrete form, which is the Autonomous Women's House of Zagreb for, not family violence as it was said, it would be something quite different, but violence in family and violence against women, we think it should be a criminal act, that it must not be in the sphere of offense and that it should be done and that this is an opportunity to fully and fully regulate it by amendments to the Penal Code, we think this is a good opportunity. As regards the exclusion of illegality in the criminal act of disgrace, it will probably remain a dilemma I am afraid, regardless of how it was ultimately defined this crime because this norm as some have said will be stretching, subject to interpretation, and often this interpretation, regardless of all the respect of our regular courts, does not have to be unequivocally precise and may be worth seeing during this period until the second reading, how more accurate or clearer the public interest and what is undoubtedly a criminal offence, and everything else that will be used to exclude the illegality of the criminal act of disgrace. And finally for the conclusion, and I think we especially care, and it is important to ask between the two readings that you consider that a special civil liability for possible crimes from this group is determined. I know how much this is the subject of this law for all those who are owners or publishers of those media in which such things happen very often, and then remains in legal practice unclear how to regulate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86679	Thank you. We have one replica, the esteemed Kresimir Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86680	A fellow Mlakar is a very important public interest. But lately, I've been given two counts of defamation. I'm just going to read you a few sentences from that verdict. "According to this, according to the court's assessment of false allegations, incriminating the events through Osijek television, the defendant's intention was to harm the honour and reputation of the private prosecutor. Here, it should be stressed that the right to protect the privacy of public persons is a rope against the same rights of persons unknown to the public. Anyone who agrees to engage in politics as a public duty and activities that the rightful service of the general family must agree to expose to the political court and to the same public. Therefore, public persons, politicians must be more tolerated by criticism than private persons, leading to the basic conclusion that public persons do not have the right to fully protect privacy, but only in those cases directly related to their public life, i.e. By performing a public function for which they have been elected or appointed, in a specific case the mayor of Osijek certainly represents such a public person because the conduct of public office for the defendants by making claims which have the content of a slanderous statement had the sole and exclusive intention to honor and the reputation of the private prosecutor, Bubal, who ran in those elections." Why am I saying that? The verdict clearly found and proved that the defendant defamed a private prosecutor by means of the Osijek TV show and made it accessible to a number of people, I quote "to slandering allegations that the human dignity of the private prosecutor Kresimir Bubal, or his honor and reputation, was undisputed". You're talking about damages for those they work for a little while ago. So let's remember that the Osijek TV just funded was often spoken in the media through FIMI Media, so I'm setting up a reading that I should now sue after and this last verdict I got.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86681	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86682	If I was able to at least capture what was the taste of your replicated colleague Bubalo, it's the fact that here we're talking about the public interest. I can't take a fee or suggest to you who you're suing, that you should use someone who's registered for such a job. The other thing I was talking about was I didn't talk about who was funding someone because it's very difficult or almost impossible to determine even for political parties, let alone for the media. There were even attempts to share ownership in the media in front of the public, and the attempt failed. I was talking about something else, about the public interest and about you being able to often get in a double role. Many of our colleagues sitting in Parliament are not just parliamentary representatives, let's say they have some other profession. Some perform these professions, some are forbidden, others are not. I wonder what will happen to a doctor who could be the object of such a norm, will he and how he get away when he's been in some sort of procedure that so happens to suspect that he'll receive a bribe whether as a parliamentary representative or as a doctor? And secondly, what I have pleaded for, this norm is not embarrassing for everyone in the representative bodies not only the Parliament so that we do not speak exclusively of the Croatian Assembly in public. All the council members of the municipal, city councils and county congregations have now entered. At the same time, the special norm does not apply to the executive authority which is closer and more subject to corruption than it is members of the representative bodies. That's why I asked to delete this provision in law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86683	Thank you. The word now comes from Justice Minister Honorable Orsat Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86684	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. A few things have now been opened. First definition of bribe, I agree with her we can talk about. The one that is now in law she was taken from the UN Convention on Corruption, you have article 7 and she's from there. So it was meant if it's worth it everywhere, it's worth it. But what you said we can think about how, every proposal is welcome. So if we can in any way go some things not under the convention but above, I'm absolutely open to it but we need to know where we're going with the gauges. The second thing, civic responsibility, it's not on the table right now because it's about, in fact, we're talking about criminal responsibility, individual responsibility, means where they don't respond, where the authors, or the ones who put out certain facts, primarily. However, we live in a world where and in simple terms our legal order knows, admits and uses parallel civil responsibility. If you think we need to do something more, we can also talk about it, but at this point the thing is set up so that there is parallel and criminal and civil liability and that whenever there is a possible criminal out of it can go to the citizen, as we know. So here, you know that the publishers comply with the rules of the Media Act and the zoo, but I'm saying, it's not, since there's no connection to each other anywhere, I think there'd be one bad precedent here, but if there's anything concrete we can talk about if we want to. Briberying MPs is actually a debate about something that I have to admit to us was a purely technical matter because the prescribed sentence is now lower than the prescribed penalty, say, bribing a civil servant or an official and we thought it was okay for her to get even, I still think so. The fact that the MPs are not only parliamentary but all highlighted as a special category really needs to ask the authors in 2011 why they put it that way, I don't know. I said what I found informally simply that in practice another definition did not allow quality prosecution if it happens but again if we get a quality proposal to fit into another criminal act, we are absolutely in favour. So our intention wasn't, our intention was that it existed, so there's, let's level it, if we need to transfer it we're completely open. Public interest, we talked a lot about it, however, let us not forget that we and when we put something about writing in our laws we have the European Convention and the European Court of Human Rights. And public figures are less protected than they are protected private, it's just like that, so the legal order of the Western civilization we belong to, so it's set up. So these are some things where we can talk on this level. However, according to the European Court of Human Rights, that is so. We who have decided to go into public life, who have decided to enter, expose ourselves in some way, are worth a little different rules to us. So our protection is less than protection especially in the area of privacy, than the protection of citizens and I think that's the way it should be. It's not the same if for me, here I am talking about myself, writing something negative or for one of my neighbors who has neither the possibility of a reaction, nor has he agreed to participate in public life. We all who participate in public life whenever we do something influence other people and it's okay and it's natural that we're exposed and critical, sometimes unfounded, sometimes untrue, but we have to be prepared, we chose, no one forced us into this job, I mean that's the price we have to pay. There are supposed to be game rules set up, we hope we've set them up with this, if we need to be different here, we can talk. We need to set the rules of the game but that's it, we've chosen our own interest, this now where we're all here right now, we're here and we're exposed to the public, we need to be criticised. Well, sometimes you have to write something that might not be true if it's the only thing that's going to contribute to the discovery of something that's true, which hasn't been discovered. That's just it. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86685	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First of all, Reverend Davorin Mlakar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86686	Thank you very much. I don't know now from the end or from the beginning, Mr. Minister, I haven't advocated that Parliamentarians have special or milder treatment than other citizens. However, as far as punishment is concerned, I am being punished as a public figure, but to be a special offence in the Penal Code is against it by soul and body. And I suggest if that's the only solution then first of all put all the executive heads in the same position, they're the ones who are more susceptible. However, what I wanted to tell you, you are talking about the United Nations documents, they are unfortunately very often general and much less imaginative than Croatian reality. And for an illustration of the definition of bribes now standing in our law would mean if you show up at the airport counter and tell you you're a millionaire passenger from Dubrovnik airport for abroad, we give you an airline ticket, as it stands now to conclude that you received a bribe. That's why I suggested if we already have this definition, maybe it's worth it to the United Nations, I'm not sure it's worth it in Croatia. And in the end, it's criminal responsibility, which we understand is the assumption of civil responsibility. That's why I was saying, I know it's not the matter of this law, but there may be a reference norm that we don't strangle others, we know how civil liability for damages is judged by our courts, which are the heights of compensation, and that's why these acts often happen or repeat themselves. If the liability for damage was otherwise regulated and those parts would be less.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86687	The replica matches Minister Orsat Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86688	Thank you very much. So as far as civic responsibility is concerned absolutely, even if at this point we don't have a system in which we can legally prescribe heights, maybe it's something that in the perspective that I'm not inclined to do, but I'm asking nicely if an initiative is put on, we can talk about it. I mean, we have a situation where for the mortal consequence we have about 250 to 350 thousand kuna. Now where honor and reputation are now, you know we have to have the whole system, we can't pull one segment out and we're going to say this separately, we're going to increase the parameters and in the other we're not going to. So, we should settle it then. There aren't many countries that have arranged it, but we can talk. As far as bribery is concerned, I'd disagree because it's inconsistencies. If you're a millionth passenger, and if it's prescribed that you're going as such a profit, then you don't belong to this definition because it has to be inconsistencies, it means what you're not doing, and you're going as a million passengers. But if you get a 900th prize for the millionth, then it is. So that's what makes a difference. We can talk about everything else. And I'm saying, bribery, we didn't get the MPs out, they did. But here we agree that punishment should be evened. Make a suggestion. Maybe we can trick them. What is it? The stance was that the responsible and official, state officials, simply the MPs in the vote that they were not, that it was a special category. I am talking to you about what Croatian legal practice was dealing with and how it was developed, and that is why in 2011 they went into this solution. If you think we should go differently, please have a nice, open conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86689	Second replica, the esteemed Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86690	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, no one is against being punished and therefore called bribery, bribery and everything else. But the very name of this article in 339 above which it says bribery, so that's actually what Priory is talking about, so he's talking about some kind of possible suspicion of bribing MPs. Why, here I suggest you, wouldn't be the title of the one that says "Supplying MPs," bribing members of the representative bodies? It is a minimum that we are looking for as representatives, because the text also describes municipal councilors, county councillors, city councillors and ultimately representatives. But that's with, what my colleague Mlakar was saying, and about the members of the executive bodies, the mayor, the mayor, the mayor. Let's just say here's an example of one, if a municipality has an offer from a company that introduces ice lights into lighting, clearly there are certain actions that this company will take towards whom, according to the head of the municipality to introduce ice lights. Here's just a little example, it's not some big money, but it is, it's bribery if you understand me. So, what has a councilman here to decide on? Well, nothing. City Councilman? Nothing. A representative, especially. Here's one small contribution from me if I can have this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86691	Third replica, the esteemed Kresimir Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86692	Thank you very much. The Honorable Minister is one of the critics, and the other one is slandered, and I did just read part of the verdict, precisely because at the local level you have a media racket, you have lies, and when you spill the feathers from the cathedral and you collect it for a year and a half and you never collect it. Therefore, there is still a need to protect people in this legal solution. What matters is that it's a lie and it's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86693	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the DC Club and independent representatives, respected Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86694	Our club will support these amendments and additions to the Penal Code. We think they're good, that they put a lot of things in place, but when it comes to a crime against honor and respect, that is, since '97. For years, this is the 14th intervention in that part of the Penal Code, so 14 times we've been digging through these articles, and today we're fixing things, but this debate shows that there are still some dilemmas. Therefore, this group of crimes against honor and reputation are obviously complex, complex, by their content touching the fundamental rights of man, and therefore they are all sensitive, although it is practically in the Penal Code by weight, or by sentence, it falls into easier criminal acts. However, here is the honor inseparable from human dignity, which is, of course, personal and human and as a member of the social community, and it is the right of every citizen to respect his personal dignity. There have been a lot of criticism here at the expense of judges, there is no colleague Vuksic now, largely unwarranted. It's hard to make decisions, and I'm telling you, we've intervened 14 times in that part of the Penal Code and we're still unhappy, and we say that this is still a good proposal that came from the Ministry. It's good to introduce severe disgrace. It is in some way further narrowed down so that, in practice, only the most severe violations of honor and reputation will lead to the criminal responsibility of the perpetrator and this new Article 148a determines that there is no crime of insult and serious disgrace if the perpetrator of their traits has achieved in scientific, literary and artistic work or public information, political activity or journalistic work, provided that he has done so in the public interest, but for other... reasons. And now, of course, the question to me is, right away, the association was, two years ago, you were able to watch a play of a crazy rock group that had put a picture of the prime minister on a sex organ and we were all laughing at it. What's that? Is that embarrassing? And it was done here in the work of art. There's a lot of dilemmas, and we'll probably be digging through these same ones again in a few years, under these same provisions, perfecting them, changing them. However, there will be a lot of confusion again. The question of what is a public interest has also been raised here. It's hard to tell a judge some time that it's a public interest, which is a state interest, which is that I don't know any other interest. Also, the question of divergence of the facts of valuable courts. It is also an interesting and not simple subject and the courts tend to stumble on it, because this distinction is a fact, which is a fundamental problem for a criminal offense against honor and reputation. The fact that it is an argument that is objectively interpreted, therefore it contains a certain event, whose truthfulness, or untrueness, can be determined mainly for all people around whom people agree. And the court of law is no match for objective determination, and when we say that someone is good, bad, devious, cruel, stupid, we express our subjective view of their property. However, the statement of facts and value courts can hardly ever be completely separated. And every factual claim also implies a court of law, and yet every court of law also contains an unspeakable claim of facts, and that distinction is particularly painful with the inscriptions in the newspaper that usually give an assessment of someone's public activity. And the biggest problem is that factual claims and value courts can hardly ever be completely separated, because every factual claim implies a particular court and vice versa, and as a guideline for solving problems then a rule needs to be taken from that element that is more dominant, etc. So it's not easy for courts to make decisions. Thus, allowing for restrictions on freedom of expression and information when necessary to protect the reputation and rights of individuals. And our country practically follows certain legal standards that are common in these crimes in other countries. So, expressing ideas and information on political and other issues of public interest is freely, because the media are the creators of public change, the controllers of government and endanger this task of the media, no matter how often we are angry with them, does not mean just to endanger the personal rights of journalists and media, but to endanger the very foundation on which democracy rests. Borders allowed for criticism are much wider than politicians and public figures, as well as private persons, and the exercise of political public responsibilities brings special rights, but also special responsibilities. And anyone who agrees to perform such a public political or some public duty does so naturally and knowingly and voluntarily and in advance consent to each of his words, movement, every action being brought to the critical court of the public. The right to protection of privacy and reported persons is of the same right of private persons. The Commission’s point of view of complaints against UK journalists, which contains the public’s interest in publishing information when it comes to the detection of criminal offences of public security and health protection, and in relation to public figures, particularly politicians, when there is a public interest in publishing information from private life. But if it is about preventing the public from being seduced, deceived by certain statements or activities of individuals or organizations. And I don't think there's any serious obstacle to bringing that into our house. However, I am going back again, as there is no unique view of the public interest, so there is no firm definition of what a public person is. So there are several groups of public figures. One of them is public officials. I think we can easily define them. The other group are public figures and are actors, athletes, singers, cultural workers, businessmen and other persons. And the third group makes up relatively, so-called. relatively public persons, i.e. persons who are otherwise unknown to the public, but because of their active participation in certain social controversy or debates become known to the general public. And now I'm going back to the same thesis that I started out with. We will probably be voting for these amendments and additions to the Penal Code concerning new interventions in this part of the Penal Code as regards honor and reputation. However, we will find some objections again, and we will likely have new changes and additions very soon. However, the rest of the amendments and additions to the Penal Code for our club are acceptable. So when it comes to the protection of children, we hold that in cases where the perpetrator of a crime has been charged with harming a child for less than two years we think that a longer protection watch can be expressed than a number of years. And in some other situations, we also support most of these changes and complements that we are not particularly emphasising them right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86695	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Croats of Neki, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86696	Well, colleagues Ozbolt, you mentioned 14 interventions in this law. Well, I think that's it, I personally think it's justified. Here in today's debate, we also had the opportunity to hear numerous personal examples that were instructed by MPs, which I personally believe is not relevant for this debate. What I would like to say is, if there is another 14 interventions in this law until there is a law that will be really in the interest of and in the service of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86697	It matches the esteemed Vesna Scare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86698	So when I said how much intervention there was then, I just wanted to suggest how complex the subject is and how much more dissatisfaction there is going to be and what we're already satisfied with, and we've said more or less all of the unique views that we're going to support these amendments and the additions of the law, but we've all kind of raised some suspicion again. In my speech, I also pointed out the dilemma. So this may be the most vital part of the matter of the Penal Code, although it is very simple and easy, it's obviously very difficult by thematics.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86699	In the name of the HSU club, a respected representative, Marija Ilic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86700	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with an associate, excuse me, co-worker. Namely, I will not speak in my debate about bribery, about referendum, about honor and reputation, I will refer to the group that I belong to. Unfortunately, there are no specific prescribed rights in the Croatian legislation relating to the population of people over 65 years of age, so the moment they gain the status of an old person. We all know that it is our duty in society to treat older people with respect and to promote and protect the rights of older people and to help them live a decent and secure life as equal members of society. Several very important research done in Croatia, you are probably familiar with, for example, the one Dr. Silvije Rusek points out that the rights of older people in the family, home, public services, on the street, by family, public employees or unknown persons have been violated. The study also shows that elderly people very rarely decide to seek help or report such a procedure simply because they fear the consequences, or additional violence. In the media, we often read about fraud against older people, such as from selling health insurance policies, selling alleged medicines in homes and apartments, houses, fake representation as bank employees and looking for pins of credit cards and more. Of course, we feel that they should be further protected through various laws, therefore not only of the Penal Code. The consequences of committing criminal acts and violence against old people can be of some extent far-reaching for them, from the damage already damaged health, physical and mental to loss and what little materiality I would say to the safety that allows them to retire, unfortunately, if they are materially exploited until their death. For the sake of all of this, we propose as the first in qualified forms of crimes against life and the body, so Articles 117, 118 and 119 include persons over the age of 65. Once the provision of Article 215a has been abolished, domestic violent behaviours of these amendments and additions to the provisions of Articles 136, 137, 138 and 139 shall be returned to the protection of the rights of an extended circle of persons covered by a qualified form of these offences and subject to greater sanctions. The work has been extended to people with disabilities and to loved ones because they are at greater risk of being restricted by a violent family member. Although such provisions protect the elderly, as close persons from the violent conduct of their family members, we propose to include those provisions and people over 65 years of age because they are often victims of these crimes by the perpetrators who are not members of their families but can be persons who in any way care for them or who perform different services for the elderly. Furthermore, Article 154(1), point 2 is complemented and should be added, which we will probably give through our amendments, and to victims over 65 years of age. The Club of HSU Representatives also proposes to supplement Article 236 of the Penal Code in such a way as to impose a stricter sentence as a qualified form of action if the work is committed to a person over 65 years of age by adding a new sentence. Namely, the HSU club maintains that increased attention and protection should be given to both children and older persons over 65 years of age. The HSU Club also proposes to restore the provision of a criminal act of domestic violence. For most women who have survived partner violence, this violence is a chronic problem, and the current way of sanctioning under the Penal Code treats it as an acute event. According to former Article 215a of the Penal Code, it was possible to sanction such an act taking into account the continuity of violence and its cumulative effect that, in the new way of treating domestic violence in the Penal Code, it is not possible, but I do not know if we are right. Although at first sight it acts as the Criminal Law of the Republic of Croatia sanctioned all forms of domestic violence, the introduction of qualitative forms of crimes of serious murder, the mutilation of sexual organs, physical injuries, serious physical injuries, intrusive behavior, threats, and now psychological violence. The introduction of qualified forms of those offences does not take into account continuity as I said, progressive deterioration and cumulativeity of these acts. The placement of domestic violence as a complex law of criminality exclusively in the area of a violation, which stems from a report by the DORH on the decriminalisation of the acts of domestic violence, is not in line with the requirements of the Council of Europe's recommendation on the protection of women against violence, and directly violates even four articles of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Addressing the problem of domestic violence will only have an effect when domestic violence regains its rightful place in the Penal Code, more so because of the fact that misdemeanors do not sanction domestic violence sufficiently, i.e. they do not apply the strongest possible sanctions provided for by the Family Protection Act. This may be qualified to be discriminatory given that it is specifically required to emphasize for older people over 65 years of age, but therefore encouraging to think about some laws that would protect people over 65 and above. At the beginning of your debate you also said about the amount paid when it comes to applying to the police, we agree with your proposal to cut the amount from 2000, you said to 1000, but we think a better variant for us pensioners would be to determine 2000 as the lowest amount of pension, which would then be whether pensions would increase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86701	Thank you. The word is now being reported by the minister of justice, the distinguished Orsat Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86702	Thank you very much. What you said last, I totally agree. But... in trouble if someone were to steal half your pension, then they should put it down again. As for, therefore, the protection of a certain age, in principle I don't think we can ever set a time accurate. So now we're saying it's 65, 75 or 35 years old. At my age, I know a lot of people over 65 who are in better physical condition than I am, like me in a better physical than some of the 20. So that's how we set it up, we just can't. However, I would draw attention to you to say these legal provisions that you mentioned, severe bodily injury, physical injury, we have just a provision for people who are vulnerable because of their age. So people who are particularly vulnerable to their age and that's what needs to be assessed in each case because we all know that sometimes, just some people are much longer in good shape, some of them fall out before it, some of them are vulnerable because they're too young for something. So, I think that's much better than saying 65 and now let's put it that way. Also, the same applies, you have in Article 154 as well. As far as we're concerned, the same thing would be about fraud because I say, we all work in society, we have business ability. Of course, when you damage someone who is particularly vulnerable and because of age, or is, as I said, prescribed in a whole series of places in the law or it's a difficult circumstance. Then it's not a year in prison, it's two. So there's one special protection. So I'm saying, if you think you should go somewhere, make a suggestion, but I think this definition of a particularly vulnerable age that it satisfies because I say, we can't mechanically put it on. We often now, so... get the question of family violence. It's definitely one of the things we're going to talk about. We've been made to think that, I still think so, but I'm open to the debate completely in that direction, that by proposing this new criminal law, the psychological violence in the family, we actually covered those situations that are not covered by physical violence. But I wouldn't go towards underestimating criminal protection. It's a kind of different protection but in practice it's shown, but of course it's a matter of conversation, in practice it's manifested as something that's very fast. You're practically getting a bully out on the same day for a certain time. in the criminal one that necessarily always lasts much longer, it's simply the nature of the procedure. And that's where we have to get some balance. And you know that we have both Maresti and other verdicts that tell us that if something is a violation there can't be a criminal offence and vice versa and there's us there can't be overlapping. What we've been trying to do with this very psychological violence is that if it happens in some way one time there's a crime going on, however, if that long-term goes on a crime. So that's where we tried to find out so much that we have what you said for both acute and permanent repetition. If we have achieved the measure, we can talk about it because it is the first reading, but we have to consider what gives us the breaking law and the trial that is very fast and you actually get you know sometimes the penalty is the most important thing to be quick, not the weight. And it's very good when the state reacts the same day. It's always more complicated, it takes some time, so we have to make one balance, but not to close it, it means we transfer everything to the penitentiary, and then maybe we take away the possibility of doing things sometimes in the infraction that would be simpler. I'll remind you here we had when there were amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure then we just abolished the possibility of calling on the privilege of witnesses primarily in domestic violence when it was once proven that then you can't withdraw that statement in some way because it's your punishment again. So we often have violence over the course of things of the social situation, people withdraw, and then there's that punishment that has to happen in the offence doesn't happen. Let's balance it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86703	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate now. We've got 11 registered, the first to speak to a respected colleague of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86704	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Well, here's the minister just mentioned the verdicts, the effects of Maresti's ruling against Croatia, which I would say is where it all started, and these problems that we are talking about here are related to domestic violence or the treatment of domestic violence. There was even because of this verdict one instruction on mutual agreement between the Ministry of State and the State Attorney's Office of Procedure, but I remember the debate we had at a series of roundtables from the president of the state to different local levels when the new Penal Code was being prepared, so the 2011 law that we discussed at the time and everything was going towards leaving violent behavior in the family definitely in criminal law, with a certain redefinition of domestic violence infraction law. I still think today maybe I'm wrong and maybe the arguments can kill me, that there's a way to get us back into the criminal justice system in the family, and maybe through the Law on protection against domestic violence, we redefine some things. I agree with the fact that the misdemeanor courts are those who react quickly, but I will remind you of the protocol on the conduct in cases of domestic violence that was adopted years ago as part of the strategies that we have adopted, which explicitly states that all proceedings that are in the courts and the state's attorney's office, which are related to the issue of domestic violence have a sign of urgency, also applies to criminal proceedings. That's how it is in the protocol that we've all adopted as much as we've completed later. What seems to me to be the biggest problem of this moving violent behavior out of the family as an article, hence a special article of the law and the introduction of qualitative works through various other articles, we have actually reduced penalties. You can see this from those proceedings that were under way when Article 215a existed and when a new law was passed, so all the proceedings that continued under a certain Article 2 of the Law were prevented until three years. According to this article, domestic bullying was up to five years. I stand on the side of those who think that there is a possibility that we can sit down once again to see how and how this problem can be better solved because it seems to me that we have sent the wrong message to the public in terms of sanctioning and intolerance the forms of all forms of domestic violence. That's my thinking. I think that from the discussions that we have had in the last two years and in 2013 when the law began to apply, and this year here in the Parliament, it was such a debate that we all agreed in some way that some changes should be made because it does not now show, does not send a good message to the public or sends a good message to the violent. In the 2012 State Attorney's Office report, we still had a special chapter on domestic violence about domestic violence because we had statistics. We here in the Parliament today I don't know if you can find someone who can tell us how much it is, for example, during the last year, conducted criminal proceedings in this area of domestic violence or domestic violence. We didn't even get that information in the State's Attorney's Office's report last year that we're going to have on the agenda these days, or we can get it from the police. I looked at the MUP report there clearly says that the law on protection against domestic violence, but then I went to look for any other articles, and I found one small plate that actually doesn't tell me enough, and I don't think that's accurate data. On the other hand, another information that suggests that we are running fewer and fewer domestic violence procedures through the Penal Code shows the number of cases, which we have for the 2012 report. So in 2008, there were total convictions, and here I'm going to talk about 758, 2012 in 392, with the fact that the 2008 reported was 1285 and for 2012. In 526, no one can convince me, no one can convince me that the most difficult forms of violent behavior in the family are less in our society after we have passed the amendments to the Penal Code. And it's more of a concern about the qualification that's going through the State's Attorney's report that we've actually decriminalized in a certain way violent behavior in the family. So I think that, so I'm saying this really, I'm not saying this by heart, and I'm quoting in the end line some things that are written in reports that we've already discussed or we're just going to discuss and I'd really like to take a stand and pray that we try to make an effort between the two readings, so let's see if we can sit down and make any more changes or further improvements. I'm not saying that everything that comes to us by NGOs, so that's what these problems are all about, that everything is exactly how we should stand now, but I think we can sit at a common table once more and see what we can do. Another thing I'd like to take advantage of, please, regarding these changes, possible changes in the Penal Code, which is a matter of violent behaviour towards minority groups. Until the adoption of the new law, until 2011, until the new criminal law was passed, we began to have cases of judicial practice in which violent acts of hatred against certain minority groups were prosecuted. We don't have that violent behavior in the Penal Code anymore, and you have to kill someone or inflict serious bodily harm on them to prosecute someone under the Penal Code. And not even the cases we've witnessed in recent months which, I'm now saying, among other LGBT activists, tells us that no culprits are found, that the culprits are being released, possible culprits, regardless of what they were in the group of those who attack, threaten, insult and inflict perhaps easier and not severe physical injuries to the persons of those minorities. So I think that's something we should take care of. So it took us a long time in our society to come to the conclusion that this kind of violent behavior was condemned, so that this repressive apparatus, or judicial practice, was initiated, and then suddenly it came to an end. And I'd like to see if it's possible to intervene in that part of the Penal Code. Here, believing, so I could talk a lot more, but believing there's still time to talk about it, I think we can find a common language here because otherwise it seems to me that we've all been together after all these years since we started to change the Penal Code about the problem of domestic violence, the introduction of protective mechanisms as we've been leading something else, I would say. And I'm afraid today, I don't feel credible enough to be credible when I talk about it if we can't change things in a legislative sense. I think not only I but also all those who will always go public and say that they are fighters against violence, that they believe that violence, among other things, domestic violence is inadmissible, etc., and on the other hand we allow that part to go completely into one sphere in which, ultimately, the penalties that are given are not enough for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86705	Thank you. Justice Minister Orsat Milenic reportedly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86706	So I'm going to look back on both aspects actually. So first one thing you mentioned, and that's one maybe special worrying thing that statistics started to show us bad numbers during the former law. Because in 2012, he was still in effect old, so... That's exactly what I'm [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So we have a systemic problem that is not directly related to the amendment of the Penal Code because even before the amendment of the Penal Code, before it came into force, we actually have almost doubled the number of proceedings at the annual level and that is a real problem that indicates that it is not just a problem in criminal matters. Of course, but perhaps I should have initially said that absolutely for every conversation, because we are actually talking about the same, so our common goal is to prevent violence in both family and outside the family. So if we need to do something, we'll do it. There should be no doubt and we are open to every dialogue and wherever we see that something is not covered by the Penal Code if it should be covered we will change that. That's exactly why we tried to introduce this psychological violence because we're from conversations to see that part is uncovered. And I think we're actually rounding up this family violence pretty well. I repeat, if there's room for further talk and talk. But there's one question that I've been asking myself, and I've been thinking about it myself, and that's why I'm glad we're going to talk like this, it's violent behavior like that. So not family because we actually have criminal protection, we said she's fast, we have a criminal now because you'll actually see whatever happened is basically covered by this psychological or some physical where there's some kind of injury. But we're asking a question really, and that's what we need to talk about, whether we've covered violently well enough in general, so either it's hate or it's violent in itself because it's directed towards, of course, when it's out of hate, when it's to some vulnerable member of the community that it has to be harder to punish, but let's talk at all about violent behavior and whether it's something that we're content with to cover a mislaw or something that needs to be thought about getting back into punishment. I think it's one of these conversations we're having, she's a real dilemma. I'm saying this when I talk about family we're going to talk about this too, but I think this is really something to talk about. Violators, we simply live in a society where there are more and more of them, where they threaten all of us, especially those who are different in any way or who are marked as such, and maybe it's really time to bring it back and that we as a society say that we want to sanction it. If you're talking about legal theorists, they're going to say that it's not like that, that it's covered, etc., we've been having big debates, but the criminal law is both the expression of politics and political attitude, and that might be the real question, and then we, through violent behavior, such one in general can... the family, we can cover what's out of hatred for someone because it's different, then we can ask it differently. So I think maybe it's the right topic because I say family I think we're covering for this, too, but I repeat, we can talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86707	A respected colleague of Gordana Sobol signed up for the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86708	Thank you. Mr. Secretary won't mind me reporting to the replica. So I wanted to step up and completely agree with you that we as a society, so as far as violent behavior is concerned, but that's what we've been saying for many years in this House, I'm absolutely not going to say that we lost the battle, I'm going to say that we haven't done enough in all the areas in which we should have. And when we talk about domestic violence, we should say that from 2000 until today we have made a series of changes, a series of strategies, policies, etc. where we pulled out to say so all together in the light of day and it would be a sin to say that nothing was done. But our problem is that today we have come into a situation that the police and other institutions will react when there is violence, but our problem is how there is no violence, how there is no violence. So that's a much wider question now. And I'm only going to get tied up again about this problem of reducing the number of criminal acts that are being conducted through the Penal Code, but he's definitely, to me, so now he's not the only thing of this new Penal Code but he's started before. Now I don't know exactly what year the Maresti case was, but I do know that already in the 2011 State Attorney's Office's report, the case and the problem has been mentioned twice since 2010, 2011, in fact, I would say that the number of proceedings under the Penal Code has begun.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86709	Answer to the line, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86710	Thank you very much. So just one thing. You mentioned the State's Attorney's Office report. I am very pleased that it will soon follow here in the Parliament and must say that in it I am amazed at the thesis of decriminalisation because one of the things I did when I took office was just a discussion about the entry into force of the Penal Code and the issue of continuity. And I was convinced on both sides and their representatives that continuity exists and that there is more or less coverage of these criminal acts that are there. And now come out with the the thesis that it's decriminalized first I don't think it's right at all, and it's contrary to what was actually going through the working group where the DORH representatives were sitting. So that's one of the things we also need to clear up and see what's going on. That example here in the introduction read to me, I will not now, of course, enter qualifications, I think that every layman is clear that there is a whole series of criminal acts and under the current law.... And that give up and say that he's gone because mechanically he doesn't call himself one way anymore than in another, that's the real problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86711	We're continuing an individual debate. Dear colleague Nadica Jelash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86712	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. So this legislative proposal really brings a number of quality solutions to which they have spoken and supported by the representatives of the clubs, so that in my debate, I will actually concentrate only on some of these provisions that I consider to be important to help, or contribute to a burning problem right now, so a really burning problem in my Međimurje County is solved. I'm not saying that these problems, similar phenomena, are not in other environments, but I think at this point he's really particularly expressed in Međimurje County. Since 1 January 2013, when the current Penal Code entered into force, which raised the value of small-value theft from 1000 to 2000 kuna in Međimurje, one real explosion of property delicacies occurred. The most agricultural crops are stolen, but there are numerous wood thefts in the woods, house thefts and business premises. The perpetrators unknown. This is mainly the case in the police records, but citizens who are damaged know very well who the perpetrators are or at least they know it mostly. It can't be said that the police are not doing their job, so the police department has stepped up and patrolled agricultural areas, even thermal cameras have been obtained, so it seems a lot, a lot of efforts are being made to reduce these problems. But in fact, the amended Penal Code broke out of the hands of those tools that contributed, or they could contribute to making the police more effective. And so, dissatisfied citizens, they are forced to solve this problem themselves, so they are organized even in some places, in some municipalities in the departments, in the night watch to preserve crops in fields where they have invested both material and financial resources and work and which are actually the basis of their existence. In one word, both the police and the citizens were unable to say against how they coloquially state the legal provisions that enable them to steal unpunishedly to the value of 2,000 kuna. It is clear that the current Penal Code does not allow unpunished theft of up to 2000 kuna, but that is the reality, so our daily life shows that the existing provisions of the Penal Code in cases of individual petty theft are indeed ineffective. The impression is that the perpetrators can't really do anything, and the fact that the crime remains unsanitary causes not only one great uncertainty but also a huge dissatisfaction with the citizens. The question is, why is that? Because in the case of petty theft, no matter how many are actually committed by one and the same perpetrator, and in the end, it turns out that one big theft does not start on official duty and the police do not take the measures set out in Article 207. The law on criminal proceedings. So it's not the police that's looking for the unsub, it's not gathering evidence of theft, etc. This means that criminal persecution must be initiated by citizens themselves, so citizens must press private lawsuits, and unfortunately in practice there is a consequence that the damages themselves cannot identify the perpetrators, that they cannot collect evidence and that they are practically prevented from protecting their own property. Citizens do not decide to launch private lawsuits because, in the executive procedure, they cannot actually be charged because the perpetrator of the crime is most often not in possession of any property, and neither does the sentence of a shorter prison for the perpetrator represent a penalty, but it is actually a sort of reward for him because in prison frameworks, or conditions, there are better conditions than there are in reality on the loose. This bill of law that we are discussing today, I believe it will change this situation. Why? Because for the first time in the Penal Code, definitions of undefined values are introduced. So far, the case law under which small values of things, property rights and property benefits were considered to be those that did not cross 2,000 kuna. As the ministers themselves said, it was based on the views of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. That line proved to be too high in practice and actually represented I would say an additional motivation for a potential perpetrator of theft, not to deter it from stealing. In fact, if we compare our case law to some other countries' case law. We like to compare this with Germany, then we will see that in Germany petty theft is considered stealing things, i.e. assets whose value does not exceed 20 to 30 euros. So that's about two hundred kunas. This is 10 times less than in Croatia, which should also consider that average incomes, so the average revenues of German citizens are incomparably higher than the average income of Croatian citizens. That is why this legislative proposal proposes that the value of things and property rights be reduced from the existing amounts of 2000 to 1000 kuna, and I think it's very good. However, what will contribute most to the more effective punishment of perpetrators of petty theft and I think that is actually one of the great values of this legislative proposal is Article 3. Proposal for a criminal law supplementing Article 52 of the current Criminal Code. This new paragraph 4 states in Article 52 that in cases where the same perpetrator repeats small thefts, the value of these individual thefts will be collected and viewed as one criminal offence to be treated as an extended crime of theft. So, I'm going to take that picture to examples that are happening in Međimurje County. The bag per bag of stolen potatoes will actually be the same as the stolen potato truck. Of course, such a crime will not be prosecuted on the private suit of citizens, but on official duty, and it is clear that it will then be incomparably greater than it has been before. Therefore, these amendments to the Penal Code send a clear and truly unequivocal message to all Croatian citizens regardless of nationality or any other belonging. So you can't steal with impunity. I therefore believe that the provisions of this Penal Code will be a function of deterring potential perpetrators from stealing and contributing to greater security of property, not only is there among my Međimurje citizens, but also Croatian citizens as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86713	Thank you. Myrella Holy reported for the hearing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86714	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of the debate, I would like to stress that this proposal has improvements that should be welcomed in any case. I find it a positive fact that the Justice Department admits certain failures under the new Penal Code that came into force last year. Unfortunately, it is rare for a ministry or any other body of public authority to admit mistakes and work to remove these mistakes, and that is indeed commendable. I believe that honest recognition of failure means a clear commitment to work in the public interest, and it should, as I said, be highly commended. The amendments and additions we are discussing today are aimed at removing doubts, filling out perceived gaps and harmonising certain norms and further harmonising the Penal Code with the EU acquis, as the Proposer himself says. I feel positively that the amendments proposed in the section of infringements against honor and reputation and I agree with the promoter that there is no reason to repeal the provisions on disgrace, but there is a need to clarify these provisions. The quality of the novelty adopted by this proposal is also a special provision extending the reasons for the exclusion of illegality for the offences of insults and disgrace, as it makes it clearer to determine the assumptions under which the court may release the defendants who made the diaphate claims in the public interest. Unfortunately, in the part about domestic violence and hate violence, I cannot be so pleased and in this sense I hope that the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Croatia will change these provisions by the second reading of this law. In the opening part of the text, the Proposer acknowledges that there is criticism of the new Penal Code in part of the provisions concerning domestic violence, i.e. that the Penal Code has taken a step backwards because it does not prescribe a criminal act of domestic violence as an independent offence. Although the intensity of the Penal Code was to strengthen the situation of victims of violence, the experience of court practice unfortunately pointed to the diametric opposite. Also, the Penal Code, which came into force in 2013, abolished the criminal act of violent conduct which left many violent people on the streets of Croatia unsolicited, which is extremely worrying when we have in mind to the extent that violence against members of sexual minorities is escalating. In my debate, I will try to convey the comments of activists and activists of NGOs of the Autonomous Women's House Zagreb and KONTRA, RišPET and Women's Network of Croatia. CONTRA, RIŠPET and the Women's Network suggest that Article 122a, which would read, reads: "Whoever, for the purpose of experiencing violence, abuse, or in particular insolent conduct in a public place, brings another into a humiliating position will be punished by a prison of 3 months to 3 years. And if the offence referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article is committed in a group or according to a number of persons, the perpetrator will be punished by a sentence of 6 months to 5 years." Why are these associations looking for such a correction of this bill on amendments and additions to the Penal Code? I suppose that a number of colleagues and colleagues have received a proposal from these associations but I think that these arguments should be reminded in the assembly too. It is important that there are provisions in the Penal Code to punish acts of violence because these provisions in the past have been sanctioned, or judgment has been reached on the punishment of hate violence. Unfortunately, new cases such as attacks on LGBT activists from Split show how wrong it was to abandon this crime. I remind you, a group of men physically attacked LGBT activists and his friend in Split and not far from the building he lives in. The attackers threatened to kill them, insulted them based on sexual orientation, and threatened them not to report an attack to the police. This unfortunately was only one of the numerous attacks on this activist who was continuously attacked in the neighborhood he lives in and is only one of the numerous attacks on the LGBT population in Split. Police have not filed criminal charges against all six attackers but only against 2, precisely because of the lack of criminal acts of violence in the Penal Code. It should be borne in mind that hate attacks on members of minority social groups, including, of course, LGBT persons, carry out the most often planned group of attackers. In such cases, the participants of the attack which did not directly strike or threaten the victim remain punishable. Also, victims who get minor injuries often do not seek medical help immediately after the attack and in these cases violence also remains criminally unsanctioned. I believe that the associations are absolutely right when they warn that the failure of the legislator left the citizens without protection from violent behavior, which is inappropriate to the social dangers of action. I would like to point out in particular that the most often strictly sanctioning, i.e. the possibility of strict sanctioning in law and in legal provisions, is the best prevention of certain criminal offences. And that's why I'm appealing to you to correct the law in this section. Now I will refer to the proposals proposed by the Autonomous Women's House, which are interventions in articles 65, 73, 179, concerning provisions relating to psychological violence in the family. Last March, the Autonomous Women's House drafted a bill on amendments and additions to the Penal Code because the Penal Code did not cover all forms of domestic violence. In fact, the experience of the Autonomous Women's House in working with women has shown that partner violence is specific in its forms and that it should be a special crime. In view of the fact that this proposal was not accepted, that is to say, domestic violence has brought about the qualitative forms of individual crimes, although the reason for the more severe punishment of domestic violence has been the case, as I have already mentioned, the diametric opposite has led to milder punishment independent of the legal framework. In other words, it was necessary to change practice rather than normative approach. This proposal introduces psychological violence as a new criminal offence, but the Autonomous Women's House continues to argue that criminal law against partner and other domestic violence has poor implications for citizens' awareness of the social death of acts of domestic violence. As a result, the association supports its claim with the content of the State Attorney's Office's 2013 report, which states that I quote: "the main reason for the reduction in the number of applications submitted is the entry into force of the Criminal Code on 1 January 2013 which decriminalized some extremely numerous crimes so far (family violence)". In addition, the introduction of the same report on page 2, I quote: "The fundamental characteristic of the state and movement of crime is the huge drop in the number of applications against celebrities primarily due to the entry into force of the new Penal Code which has decriminalized some of the former crimes and turned into a criminal zone of punishment." In other words, the DORH as a body of state authorities admitted that domestic violence was decriminalised, calling for international documents prohibiting the decriminalisation of partner and other family violence. The consequence is formal and non-conformal satisfaction with international documents binding on the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, the autonomous women's house recalls the Council of Europe recommendation of April 2002, which states that under the term of violence against women, any act of gender-founded violence resulting in or likely to result in a physical, sexual or psychological injury to a woman or her suffering, including threats to such acts of coercion or arbitrary deprivation of freedom in public or in private life. However, the penal law of these practices of Croatian courts does not recognise partner violence as gender-related violence and as the form of domestic violence, which is also the most common form of human rights violations. The Autonomous Women's House also warns that the proposed provisions relating to domestic violence are contrary to the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against violence against women and violence in the family because that Convention is called on by Member States to abolish the laws and practices discriminated against by women, and the observation of domestic violence primarily through an abusive legal approach is discrimination in view of the consequences that partner domestic violence leaves on the victim of violence, which the DORH warns in its report. The Autonomous Women's House also warns of the European Court of Human Rights rulings against the Republic of Moldova from January this year. The ineffectiveness of the new Penal Code has been particularly expressed in situations of psychological abuse of women and children, and the association argues that failure will not be removed by the introduction of a new crime whose erasure is proposed. In this regard, Article 30 of the Law provides for the long-standing difficult insult or intimidation of the near and the serious violation of its psychic integrity but without any health impairment. Therefore, judicial practice is left to the assessment of the long-term intensity of violence and the degree of mental integrity impairment. The association asks how it can be difficult to disrupt someone’s mental integrity and without disrupting their health. The 2011 Moldovan report by the Ombudsman in the Republic of Croatia, which was conducted in cooperation with the Autonomous Women's House in 2011 also shows that mental violence is more common than physical and sexual, and is dominated by just verbal attacks that have exposed almost all women who participated in the study i.e. 96.1%. Both documents also suggest that domestic violence is generally not an isolated incident but is systematically carried out by violent people over a longer period of time. Thus, a large number of women do not report violence or report it only when it escalates to such an extent that their lives are at risk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86715	Bring the end. My colleagues, Holly, thank you. I agree. [[Attack Holly: Too bad.]] The opportunity to present his ten - minute debate is now being given to the respected Josip Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86716	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs. The truth distributed the feathers to the parts of the hall a little uneven, but yet I think it's time for some of the things that were less mentioned here. I'll take two for starters. First of all, it's a rare opportunity for the minister to behave this conciliantly, to speak, to make suggestions we'll adopt them. I'm not quite sure it'll be easy to adopt these proposals, explain them and put them in the final draft of the law. but this relates to another thing that has gone less noticeable today, which is the fact that this legislative proposal has been prepared very professionally and that it has already been in preparation not only consulted legal science and experts but also associations, stakeholders and many people who have been writing, thinking and proposing solutions for years. So this isn't one simple proposal that's going to be amended 14 or 15 more times. I'm just going to say this here, so of course the Penal Code is an example of exactly the kind of legislation where there are some phenomena in real life that must then be banned, condemned, and above all, by criminal law, we find them dangerous by society. That's why there are new crimes here that don't fit the descriptions we're used to. Most of what is defined here as a special act would have been covered earlier in one of the other titles of crime, perhaps by qualified form. Violence towards young people, in families and so forth, is not something that will arise and be punishable when we adopt this law, and now it is just not clearly precise enough. However, there is another thing about this, which is that there have been very many objections that make no understanding that the professional preparation of this law meant that it has been checked, done a lot of what a good law needs, above all comparison with international standards. It has been questioned here and we have discussed the definition of corruption as to whether public employees, public officials have or do not have special protection. But gentlemen, it's settled, it's not something this law, this ministry, this government, or this Parliament will decide. International obligations exist, the Convention on Human Rights is above our legislation and the courts will have to apply it. They don't do it often because they don't know what it says, but please, I won't fall into one mistake of the court's ease of qualification. This is evident in some other details of today’s debate. We can't set standards, for example. a standard of public interest, if we don't believe in the judge's ability to judge in a specific case what that standard means. I will refer here to literature if I do not cheat on page 18 of Eve Krbek's discretionary assessment of 1920 which says that the government must have confidence he says in officials or judges or will have to write laws that no one will ever know. And the laws that go into all these details won't solve the situation. Judges must have one certain freedom to assess the facts. And let us tie it to what is a particular cause of my intervention. We're wrong to discuss a criminal act of disgrace. That basic part of the description of the situation is not a description of the offence but of Article 10. European Conventions, an article of our Constitution that gives freedom of expression. We have the freedom to say what we think. Of course, we should not speak falsely, not spread rumors or anything like that. It's not freedom of expression in the cinema to shout fire. It's not. But freedom of expression is to say at least he was wrong. Because if I'm wrong and a man never knows until he hears another man, I'll keep quiet and we don't need a company of silencers. As for us MPs or officials, of course when we deal with public matters, we must endure not only a positive but also a negative public interest. I didn't notice that someone is pressing charges when it's written nicely in the media, but only when it's said something that we don't like and I have such practical things and then the situation changes, then we're dissatisfied and then this issue of shame opens up. But that criterion isn't the definition of this part, it's the criteria that the court will decide whatever we write, freedom of expression. I think there's a whole problem here because it's been read too tightly, and people have been recognized for how far they've been, their position or their case. But I'm gonna waste my time, so I'm going to go to what I think is the main motive for intervention. We have a crime of 157 prostitution here. I'm sorry. I'm gonna show a little disagreement with what I heard. In the criminal part of prostitution, the crime applies naturally to organisers, to those who earn money from other people's bodies. Of course, it doesn't apply to prostitutes or male prostitutes but they're both victims and participants. But I'm sorry it doesn't apply to the third category that's necessary and these are the people who use that situation. I also advocate that this article be complemented by a provision that would criminalise criminality, judge those users of prostitution. I'm not saying that to make the message clear, so we're going to step up criminal sanctions because we're going to have a strong message. No, I'm not saying that because of course I also have in mind what the minister pointed out that we also have criminal penalties that are more effective and faster. But gentlemen, the punishments are milder, smaller, and bear a weaker message. Didn't we have cases, even major scandals related to policies that concern not organisers, not prostitutes, but users who were respected, often and protected, their anonymity still succeeded. I'm in favour of reducing such opportunities and that's possible by criminalizing this guy. The argument that I will present is just one more, which is that in some European countries, Scandinavian countries without exception, it is considered to be the main way of preventing prostitution. Not that we will punish those who bring prostitutes from Moldova, Ukraine, Bosnia and Herzegovina to Denmark or Sweden, but we will punish those who abuse the situation. It might seem to you that I'm moralizing that here it's some kind of ethical assessment attempt, no, this is quite a pragmatic question, too, of which things lie the possibility of our intimidation, of general prevention. It won't scare someone who's been organising prostitution, it's been punishable so far but we have a problem for those who use it, often use it in the worst forms of sexual... e.g. And that's what needs to be prevented, so I'm going to suggest that when the time comes, if the amendment is necessary, and I'm going to advocate criminal law regulation like that. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86717	Thank you. Justice Minister Orsat Milenic reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86718	Just for a little while. So before we invest the amendments when we're here. Article 157 has an item 2 that actually prescribes the punishment to call them clients. So it is predicted that anyone who knew or could know that someone provided such services out of a state of addiction, committing, etc. will be held accountable. So we already have the punishment of not only the organizers but also the clients who are, using services that have been brought by force, threat, deception, fraud or the difficult position or the position of addiction in the situation of providing sexual services, and such a person knew or had to know about it, will be punished. So, should we spread this to these conditionally said ordinary clients, if they exist, it's really a matter of debate and we can discuss it. But I'm saying we also have punishment in certain cases and clients.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86719	The replica is presented by the esteemed Joseph Kregar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86720	... The possibility and right of a short replica, I would agree. [[Specially enabled.]] Let's just take two words out of paragraph 2. "for profit" because listen, it's not about the user being someone who makes a profit using someone else's... but for pleasure. It should not be written like that in the law, but in fact anyone who has paid is also subject to the penalties provided for in paragraph 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86721	We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86722	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Professor Kregar and I are sitting next to each other but we didn't agree to an introduction, believe me, but really all praise. Every legislative proposal that comes from your ministry really goes through a broad public debate and professional public and interested public, comes in first reading and second reading shows that the final proposals are the balances that you mentioned today, which is what we get, of course, better solutions. And what we could hear in the morning, the minister not only listens but also hears. So I believe that both this Penal Code and its amendments and additions after this first reading, all that the interested public has said, the expert public has said more or less about it in the public debate that they will produce quality solutions. I will specifically refer to only one part that has been heard a lot today and to domestic violence. I'll say my thoughts on it. I believe that through my practice, I have witnessed many times whether the current solutions and what you are now proposing is a more quality or less quality solution. Of course, the basic dilemma that has shown itself is whether domestic violence, so I'm not talking about psychological violence in the family that you're introducing rather than whether domestic violence should be reintroduced into the Penal Code, so whether it should be a crime or whether it should remain in the sphere of offense. Of course, it is not at all disputed that domestic violence is a serious social problem, although significant progress has been made in recent years in Croatia in relation to the perception and sanctioning of the problem in the past. Of course, it is not disputed that the consequences of domestic abuse are significant, not only for individual health and happiness but also for the benefit of the entire community. What is frightening, of course, is the fact that every third family in the Republic of Croatia faces violence, which is terrifying that 40% of Croatian citizens know at least one victim of domestic violence. We have heard thinking that the treatment of most cases of domestic violence as a violation sends a message that domestic violence is still not considered a serious type of crime. It is also a fact that the offences when we generally look at them in relation to crimes are socially less dangerous, but I am still not prone to view this problem unequivocally and to say it should go into criminal law for the reason that it is now in the offences to send a message that it is not considered a serious act. I think it's a one-bit view. I think that domestic violence is the most important fact that the moment that domestic violence occurs that a bully is promptly moving out of the family and I'm not sure that by looking at court practice and not talking about statistics as much as we love her or don't like trials, it can be done in criminal proceedings. So as I said, the criminal procedure itself by its nature is slower than the criminal proceedings. Because of the devastating consequences of domestic violence, it is as important as I said to react without delay. A domestic bully can answer to a prison sentence of up to 90 days, a fine of up to 50 grand. When we look at today's data last year, 13800 people have been punished, and in the first six months of this year, 8,000. My colleague Sobol also mentioned the State's Attorney's report and the fact that since 2008, there has been a decline in both the number of reported and the number of convicted and, of course, I agree that this information does not mean that there is less domestic violence in the family. The fact is, regardless of the fact that 526 were reported in 2012 and 392. But not to look at ordinary statistics, court practice shows that fines and paroles were far more numerous than prison sentences. And in order to proceed with criminal proceedings, any criminal proceedings to a final sentence or fine not to pass several months, but several times and many times and several years. And all that time, there's a bully in the family. I'm not sure that we in criminal law can make such a case law that a bully in a family is sentenced to an investigative prison. It's the court's assessment of whether it's going to determine an investigative prison or not to determine an investigative prison, and now there's this balance that makes it good to hear different thoughts and most importantly, which is what I really think is, that the bully is spotlessly away from his family. I agree with thinking that a month in prison, two months in prison, or three months in prison for a bully in a family isn't enough. But I'm not so sure that two or three months in prison doesn't seem to be educational to a bully whether or not next time they'll do the same thing, unlike that bully who's going to be running a trial for three years, getting paroleal convictions, and at the same time harassing his family. What I certainly welcome, of course, is the introduction of a criminal act of psychological violence in the family, which has certainly been a void so far, because violence, of course, is not only if we hit someone. It's violence, and when it's constantly insulted, it scares, it blackmails. Violence is also a constant control of money, banning another from hiring, preventing you from meeting with your family, humiliating, ridicule in front of others, etc. etc. Although this is long-term because domestic violence never starts immediately and now, it has a slight upward pathway that is getting stronger and stronger is certain to leave a mark on health, and in one court procedure the art of art will certainly show it. So, especially for reasons of course that psychic violence is very difficult to see around. Physical violence is visible and it can be seen immediately, and psychologically it can last for years and the question of whether even the environment and the nearest one finds out that they have it at all. And finally, looking at the whole of this amendment and the additions, I will support it because I believe that, as I said at the very beginning, a broad debate will lead to quality solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86723	Thank you. The replica was signed up for the esteemed Mirella Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86724	Dear fellow Members, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this proposal does not remove the lack of law in the part of the regulation and pronunciation of security measures which remove circumstances that allow or encourage the launch of a new criminal offence. The criminal law in the spectrum of security measures most often necessary in the case of partner violence has a prescribed prohibition and approximation measure while prohibiting harassment or stalking of a victim or another person has only been prescribed as a special obligation. It can only be pronounced against a convict who is released on parole, resulting in the defendant being charged with fines or unconditional prison sentences, who is not suspended on condition as well as the accused who has been sentenced cannot impose measures on the prohibition of harassment or stalking as well as measures to establish or maintain a relationship with a particular person following the lawfulness of a criminal proceedings. And so I really think that we should keep in mind, as I have already said during my debate, that the most effective prevention is precisely a threat to repression.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86725	Replication response, respected Vesna Fabiančić-Krisjanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86726	Thank you very much. Well, I haven't talked about these protective measures, but the repression must be a spotty prison. Prompt prison is the best possible repression.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86727	We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Caroline Leakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86728	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, Mr. Secretary with her associate. I would therefore not, in my brief debate, look back at all these problems or issues discussed by colleagues from the early morning, and in fact, we have started your presentation of the Minister in fact with the problem of the criminal, or the amendment of the criminal act of disgrace to the criminal act of severe disgrace. But I will, however, try here in some way to include myself in the debate and something new so that we do not repeat ourselves in relation to what our colleagues have said, and it is interesting that today's debate has shown that perhaps from the Penal Code and from these changes, especially this part that is related to, therefore, heavy disgrace, we expect perhaps too much of us in the Croatian Parliament, especially when it refers to something that I might call a return of confidence in the political system or in democracy, a representative democracy that we have here. So, not only is it about that crime of bribing MPs, but it seems to me to me for this, too. So, we talked a lot, many colleagues and colleagues were actually talking about how both in public speech and in the media, so in all public statements whether it's about politicians, whether it's about some other people who perform public or social functions or take certain positions. So we should naturally take care of the dignity of honor and the reputation of individuals and individuals but by joining those who justifiably say that we who deal with public affairs are already policy or that all those who actually participate in this public communication must, unfortunately or fortunately, be prepared for what can happen to them, so if they find themselves in that public arena in any way. So each of our gestures or every word of ours really plays a more powerful role or influences, as you ministers yourself have said about how citizens and citizens in this regard are determined in a way toward those who choose and toward those for whom they vote. So, I'd say in this morning's debate, in today's debate, we've heard a lot about how we may be expressing or showing some mistrust in the court, in the justice system. But I wouldn't say that we only heard that, but we seem to have actually heard in many discussions something else that intrigues me in particular, which is that in some way we've shown some level of mistrust in journalists and journalists and in the way they do their job and in how they're going to convey certain information and will deliberately embarrass someone, whether they're going to present some facts or valuable courts that can be true but we don't really know whether they're true. And in that sense, I would warn maybe even the fact that we shouldn't do it so lightly, that we shouldn't approach it so easily and that we really have a little more confidence not only in journalists and journalists but also in the way that our whole media legislation is arranged. And of course it can't be punished by law and by the provision of severe disgrace which is therefore complemented here by another article that excludes illegality in this sense, in that respect, not only in scientific, artistic but also in the press business, so that we still see the complexity of this area and that we don't judge this amendment of the Penal Code or any other amendment to some other law based on some personal experience. And that's what we also had a chance to hear here today. Dear Ministers, I may say, however, that I am somehow closer to those colleagues and colleagues, which is why my colleague Igor Coleman, on behalf of the HNS Club, spoke of it, so that here I am really intrigued or interested in the concept of public interest really, indeed, which we have talked a lot about today and we have pointed out a lot. I do not deny the right of the court and judges and judges to decide on such a public interest, but I do not think that we should also ignore the objections that have come and may be apprehensive, perhaps inexcusable and perhaps justified fearsome colleague and colleague from the media, i.e. journalists and journalists who point to this problem and which point to actually possible problems that will arise in the performance of their work. It's not that they're going to tell a politician or a politician something that she doesn't like or he doesn't like but we actually need to think about journalists and journalists responding as we already heard this morning from colleagues and colleagues, of course to the public and citizens, but also media owners. So they are in Croatia mostly in private hands. And it is certainly an editorial and ownership policy under the burden or under the boot of large capital or advertiser. So these press freedoms seem less endangered to me for the last few years, at least by some political pressure, and it seems to me that they are largely at risk of actually having ownership interests or capital interests. And of course journalists and journalists who in some way feel threatened are existential, if they are forced to publish certain factual claims or certain value courts because of the pressures that come from owners or advertisers who put pressure on the owner again, of course, in a difficult position. I think that's what they were actually warning about when they were talking about that there might be problems with this kind of expression. Although I say in this bill of law, so we took a step forward and we introduced this exclusion of illegality. That's actually what I wanted most to warn you about because we didn't hear it today. So, we were mostly talking about this and about these amendments to the Penal Code relating to the criminal act of severe disgrace as if it were just us who are here in this Croatian Parliament, only those who have already dealt with some public duties and as if no one else would be concerned about it anymore. And here we have heard that some colleagues and colleagues have not given themselves the right but have tried to evaluate or speak towards the evaluation of some artistic achievements or quasi-artic achievements that they have been doing. I don't think we're competent enough, at least I don't feel competent enough to talk about what it is and what it isn't an art. So our mission, of course, as parliamentary representatives and MPs, would then be to warn the respected ministers and this dimension of the provision that we are changing in some way, in order to re-enhancing dialogue perhaps with other ministries in the government. Well, I'm sure you've been interlocuting the amendments to this law interlocutingly, but in this context, I'm curious whether you've agreed with the Ministry of Culture which is responsible for the adoption of a media policy or the implementation of a media policy because it seems to me that some other messages from that ministry are coming from this criminal act of severe disgrace. And finally, of course, I would like to join my colleagues and colleagues who spoke about the need to sanction violent behaviour in Croatia, especially in relation to minority groups, and especially in relation to gender and sexual minorities, or LGBT populations. In this sense, I, too, appeal to Mr. Minister that, during this period from the first reading to the second reading in the Croatian Parliament, in a certain way, care should also be taken of this aspect of gender-related violence or violence against those who, in our society, as you have said well, are marked as being second or different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86729	Vice President Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86730	Thank you. The Honorable Minister has in these amendments and additions to the Penal Code things that no one here in this assembly has questioned, which means you've done a good job. This applies first of all to the non-depreciation of the crime of serious murder, that's logical. The question of why such a provision had already been introduced into the Penal Code because it was not really acceptable, and it is not possible for anyone to count on the grace of antiquity that killed another man in a cruel way, took his life. Nor has anyone here questioned the introduction of a criminal act of psychological violence in the family, it is good that you have done because the consequences of psychological violence can sometimes be worse than the consequences of physical violence, they can last longer, they can leave deeper scars, they can completely separate the psyche of a abused person, and often such abused persons are not able to get out of an unwanted family situation because they simply can't, they may not have any material possibilities or any other assumptions, and here they really need to be protected by the Penal Code. Now, when it comes to acts against honor and respect of another person, our Penal Code knows three such forms, so it's slander, insult and shame. That's good because there are great differences between those three parts. And there's no dissuasion in libel. Why? It's logical because defamation is the work when someone's about someone else is about anything false that can harm his honor and reputation knowing that what he's saying is false, and we really don't need any exclusion from illegality. When an act of disgrace was introduced, it was called in the current Penal Code, media were on their feet arguing that this crime would reduce freedom of speech in the media. That provision has been transposed from the Swiss legislation. Well, I don't understand if there's anything good about Switzerland why it shouldn't be good in Croatia and why it's been such a big fuss. You are now easing this act with these changes, introducing an exclusion of illegality which has not yet been and changing the name to severe disgrace, to judge the characteristics of this work. It doesn't matter if it's true or false. One can be ashamed and in a way to speak the truth about him, you wrote it well here in an explanation, for example. if data are provided on his health which are personal and which concern no one. I am now going to tell you a very imaginary example that has not happened, but it is imagined there are many similar in our media and I do not share with my colleague, Caroline Leakovic, such great optimism towards the media and journalistic responsibility. For example. The minister's salary is 17 thousand kuna, the month has 30 days, 720 hours and it can be calculated that one minister pays 23 kuna and 60 lip per hour. And now there are journalists who count everything, so they can calculate it this way if the minister sleeps five hours a day, that's 150 hours a month, and that's why he gets three thousand 540 kunas. To me, such an article is mind-blowing, I've read a lot of similar things in the paper completely pointless. This would be a form of pure disgrace, and it's all true what I wrote and that the month lasts 30 days and that the salary is 17 thousand kuna, all calculations are correct. Therefore, in disfellowshipping the illegality, you say that it will be applied if severe disgrace is done in the press business and if it is done in the public interest or for other justifiable reasons. There are portals in our home that are only founded to offend and shame other people. And I can imagine myself setting up such a portal and saying that it is in the public interest that I write about public figures that I think of insulting them and slandering them to call on this institute to exclude illegality. I think that this thing should be a little more specific because we don't understand what public interest is, it's not fully defined and some other particularly justified contribution is even more vague that it could be some other legitimate reason. I don't think anyone has the right to expose another man to shame, especially that newspaper publisher who does it to earn it. It's from especially low initiatives being done then. Okay, there's a public interest to know if the media finds out that a public person committed a crime, that is, a public interest in writing it, that is, public interest. But can everything be justified by public interest and can it be claimed that I wrote the truth, and I did not embarrass anyone because I couldn't embarrass him. So I'd like to invite you to try to make this a little more specific by the second reading. There are other forms of writing. Here I took out an article here claiming to be very dangerous, an example that speaks of the irresponsibility of the media, the complete irresponsibility of the media where it is claimed that the commander of the American, the captain of the joint armed forces headquarters from a hotel in Zagreb, ordered military coups in Syria. We watch every day, as these extremists deal with civilians in a way that takes them away and in a ritual way, they cut their heads off in front of the cameras. First I can't imagine how this Chief of Staff from the hotel, did he call the front desk and say let me connect with... I have to give them an order or he did it on his cell phone maybe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, it's completely inconclusive, completely inconclusive and very dangerous. And what happens if someone's kid gets kidnapped and killed tomorrow. I think we should, that we should predict, because watch the media get betrayed for profit, for money, not for the truth. No one started any newspaper or television house to inform people because it's his interest, it's his mission. That's what they do to make money. And I think we should think about it because these are phenomena that are going to be more and more about protecting all of us because it's the Penal Code, it has to protect one population from being irresponsible and writing like this, and of course it's embarrassing and defamation and insult. People who do public work, especially politicians, have to be more tolerated, have to be more tolerated, it's already been brought out here because no one has forced us into this job. And when we agreed to it we agreed to write critical of us, we agreed to give up part of our privacy, we agreed to it. And if we don't agree to that, we can get off these duties, and a politician has to do more than just an ordinary citizen, but that doesn't mean that everyone else, especially the one who does it for money, has the right to insult, slander, defamation of a public person. With all the other amendments in this Act, I am convinced that you are closely following the debate all day long that you will respect all constructive remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86731	A colleague of Domagoj Hajduković.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86732	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. So here's my colleague Stazic gave me a good introduction, I'll just keep going and thank you for following the whole debate this closely and for believing that this will result in a lot of changes in the second reading. So let me, since I'm among the last ones, I'm going to kind of sum up everything that's said or said and some of my attitudes and references to what's said and what the law actually brings. First of all, it is more than clear that the Penal Code should have seen certain changes in which evidence is both evidence and a special body that followed the application of the Penal Code and the result of this amendment. It is a practice that should certainly be applied and perhaps the other ministries should use it more. So as far as the changes in the law are concerned, first of all, the criminal act of disgrace, colleague Stazic has been very much talking about it, and I won't talk about it very long because I think it's more or less all said and it's clearly something that hurts us as a public person. But we must bear in mind, therefore, what counterpart Leakovic said was the same important segment of the media, so that journalists are often the hostages of those who issue the newspaper or the media, or that they do not have as much independence as they might have in their work. However, many journalists and columnists still allow themselves too much in my opinion and these are, above all, basic qualifications that have no place for me or even personal consideration. So if we take a definition of what the news is, the news should objectively convey an event or what a person has publicly said or done rather than comment on it. It is the job of commentators, columnists but who often go to such a low level so that they also qualify for someone’s physical appearance, origin, and similarity, which is often very, very uncomfortable, often has one very demeaning sound and is not at all pleasant to anyone on the other hand, meaning who is the target of such writing. Of course, the criticism of every constructive criticism argued is something quite normal and it is a perfectly normal part of our public political action. There has also been a lot of talk about domestic violence, and I am also one of those who would consider that the meaning of domestic violence is still being introduced into the Penal Code. Mental violence is also something I mentioned in the replica, something that I welcome, which is important, however, will be very difficult to prove, artificially for a whole series of reasons. So in physical violence, we have physical evidence of this violence. Although I often have to say that victims of violence don't report, some don't even think they're exposed and we talk about women most often although it's not, it doesn't have to be a rule, they don't even know they're exposed to violence. I fear that this phenomenon is much more common during psychological violence, i.e. that people exposed to the same often do not even realize that what they are going through can be characterized as violence. A criminal offence against the harm of a child and a protective measure, therefore, which can be given to persons sentenced to penalties of less than 2 years or that may be extended. It's certainly a measure to be welcomed, and I don't think there's much debate as such because protecting children as the most vulnerable part of our society is extremely important. Also, the non-determination of severe sexual delicacies, or the beginning of obsolescence only from the age of the victim, although I think unfortunately that although this measure is absolutely taken into account as a bona fide intention that it will not be, it does not necessarily mean that we will have a greater number of convictions, or a greater number of reports of such crimes, because often these young persons also or suppress, do not want to report or even know that what they have been exposed to is bad. What I would particularly underline and highlight is the launch of a criminal procedure under official duty extending to all persons performing a public duty. So first of all, I think of medical staff, teachers, professors, and everyone else who does some public work. I think it's very important in this Penal Code for us, it means, above all, my profession, but then for us as a society, because these professions are increasingly exposed to various pressures, forms of violence, threats, blackmail and the like, so that they don't always have to accept the physical form of violence that is then processed by other provisions, but often these same forms of violence don't report. They do not report that until now there was no obligation to pursue in public duty, but they had to settle it in private lawsuits, and for many different reasons they did not want to do so. So we could spend probably another day talking about it. But what I was going to say, so when we talk about the real situation in our Penal Code but also in society in general statistics which, we had the opportunity to hear a lot of statistics, are not often a reflection and a real state. And I'm going to tell you what I think, so the drop in the number of convictions or the increase in the number of convictions is not necessarily proof that some law is effective or not, but it's not necessarily proof that as a society we've become better or not. I'll tell you a few examples that are very fresh to me. For example, it was recently held in Osijek by gay arrivals. Without any incident he went through, without any incidents of physical violence or anything like that, although in the debate before he came, we could witness various homophobic, chauvinistic, hateful acts and so forth. Is that saying that Osijek, we'll say that, gay friendly town? No, I don't. Does this say that Croatian society is open to such persons? No, I don't. That's just saying that this happened without violence, that there were no incidents because it was determined, let's call it that, a critical group of citizens decided to ignore it, but that doesn't mean that violence won't happen unless the people of the same-sex orientation are found somewhere in a public place or faced with such people. Therefore, the downfall of the number of convictions or the increase itself does not hold the relevant data even though it is necessary to refer to them and keep them in mind. The fellow Stazic, and I will slowly finish there, spoke of this public interest. I'm otherwise adversaries of prenuptiality in our laws. Simply the legislator can't be out of line, or if, too, the minister mentioned, if we norm everything then we'll get into a situation where we have huge laws because it's simply impossible to predict all the situations that can happen in practice. However, the problem is unequal court practice. Thus, the judgments made are, in one situation, like this, in another, there is no uniformity between them and the equal interpretation of certain circumstances. Of course, every case is a case for itself but often some things are or should at least be standard interpretation. Public interest can also not be one of those things. Therefore, it should certainly be considered to do everything and maximum possible for the ministry as legislator to standardise judicial practice. So there are two schools right, it's she that's forbidden everything that's not allowed or that's allowed anything that's not forbidden. I don't think we should go into any extremes and keep ourselves from getting too crazy, but certainly some things need to be more clearly defined. In any case, support for the law in the first reading, and hopefully we'll have an even better proposal next to the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86733	Comrade Tomislav Žagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86734	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Here I also belong to a group of these MPs who welcome certainly amendments and amendments to the law, but above all, the way it is adopted, which is highlighted in most discussions before me. First of all, because the purpose of this legislative proposal is to protect the fundamental values on which this society rests. On the other hand, doubts should be removed, norms should be complemented in court practice, especially according to the principles of efficiency and equality. Every law also has a message that it transmits and serves to create value and thus this one. The most significant changes are proposed in crimes against honor and reputation. The minister stressed in his opening statement that, if I may put it this way, a compromise between being expelled from the law of a criminal act of disgrace and an existing legal solution that can easily be misused. This solution provides for sanctioning only the most difficult acts of disgrace, as it is called in the law severe disgrace. When we talk about shame, then we must also talk about what causes shame, which are motives and interests that lead to those who embarrass others, whether they are public or private, particular, for example. caused by profit. We agree that it's not easy to define the public interest or the court, but that's why it's much easier to define what he's not. When we talk about financial benefit or profit, we can almost certainly say that it is not about public interest. Reality or overall social relations such as the market on which media sell their product have a certain impact on the behaviour of journalists, their editors and owners, and on the other hand, the media shape and create reality and influence the perception of acceptable ways of communication in society. As a result, the law does not play an easy role and must protect the integrity of the person and his family but not at the expense of media freedoms of expression. What has been noted from today's debate, that the remarks of the MPs largely went in the direction of action in court practice and mistrust in the judicial system, and at least on the legal proposal itself. Unfortunately, we don't have much space here. When we talk about domestic abuse and violence, we can agree that there are fundamental problems and not just our society, but every society. The basic role of the law should not be the protection of the family but the protection of family members, especially the most sensitive specific human relations, so it is good that it has entered into the law and psychological abuse as a separate crime, although it is naturally predicted that it will be very difficult to prove it. It is good to define by law a small value at 1000 kuna especially in police actions. Officers must be clear when and why they can act on official duty. In particular, the proposal should be welcomed to extend the provisions on the initiation of a criminal procedure under official duty to criminal acts of coercion and threats in a situation where the act has been committed against healthcare professionals, teachers and teachers. This has a broader social context because someone here today mentioned the debate and that many values in this society are ruined, and those values that begin as institutions, represented by these people, will certainly help to restore these values to them, i.e. to strengthen these values in society. And of course, they will protect these poor workers, because they are exposed to difficult forms of violence in everyday work, and so far they have had to solve a private lawsuit that they often gave up for a number of reasons. Given the requirements relating to new forms of crime caused by technical and technological progress, interventions in certain criminal offences against computer systems, programmes and data should also be welcomed, thus proposing to extend the criminal offences of unauthorised access and serious criminal offences against computer systems, programmes and data. The goal is to punish more severely the injury and endangering of computer systems and data of particular importance. Special attention should be paid here to the education of all law enforcement participants and not only in the Ministry of Justice, as it is highly sophisticated criminal acts. And finally, I believe this legal solution will do its job by adopting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86735	And my colleague Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86736	I would like to thank the esteemed vice president of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would say that this proposal represents a significant improvement in the existing legal text, and I certainly believe that it should be supported. The need to change certain standards in order to meet the needs of life easier, such as this extended crime, has been observed. So now it's prescribed, so... Things, i.e. property rights and property benefits are therefore the sum of the value of all things, property rights and therefore benefits obtained from these separate actions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the media, too, cases were apostrophe when criminal responsibility was avoided, when the perpetrators knowingly began small-value acts knowingly to avoid criminal responsibility. We can even face attempts at such acts almost and almost daily. I've been walking here for a while, walking towards the Parliament, and I've been stopped by a few people who offer me some services that are otherwise offered by associations as if I'm giving them some humanitarian help, although it's a simple society with limited responsibility. And it's quite, it's almost obvious it's a fraud. Such and similar acts are completely coming out of the sphere of punishment according to current legislation, although it is obvious that they have taken the great wave. This definition should be welcomed, which is the value of the property of a larger scale, which is therefore a large value, a small value of the assets. Especially what's a small value of property I think it's ha I'd say extremely socially justified that the persons who are therefore damaged for that amount which may be slightly larger than 1000 kuna for them represents a large asset. So far, they've been unprotected. Unfortunately, the situation is such that in our society, we have persons with a high value of 1100 kuna. And certainly responsibility as a society to protect them, and this is what it seems. But of course, I did not answer just to give thanks, but to try to encourage thinking, a discussion of some issues that I think would be worth considering until the second reading. Thus, it is now stated that the criminal act in the article, i.e. 152 or 153 of this law, when the death of a raped person or person over whom it was committed is therefore sexual relations without consent to extend it to be punished by a prison of at least 5 years. As this is about extremely disgusting acts that represent a particularly brutal attack on the integrity of a person, it is not difficult to imagine that the victim commits suicide because of the psychological condition caused by the attack. So I think it would be wise to consider putting it here in some form as a particularly difficult circumstance, and if a person or person over whom sexual intercourse was committed without consent, then commits suicide. When we speak, therefore, further about the changes in the crime of prostitution referred to in Article 157 there are clarifications now in Article 3, it explains that those who, through means of public information and other similar means, are going to be punished for prostitution, so another person. So there's an explanation that whoever's basically a pimp, if he advertises that he'll be punished if I get it right. However, that publisher or the owner of that media space who therefore knowingly knows that his media space is used for such a purpose as I understood even this formulation will not fall under almost any responsibility. I think that if we wanted to, so we would decide that prostitution in Croatia is a forbidden activity, if we wanted to prevent it as a society, as a community then I think that advertising would also be. a business which, therefore, deals with advertising regardless of what I am not, which is that the person who has the media space is not himself the perpetrator of the crime of subduing that such a publisher should also enter a certain kind of responsibility because he is obviously profiting also from this crime. Otherwise it is my impression that in Croatia we are often in relation to this criminal act of prostitution and to prostitution in general somehow in some sort... Some kind of gray zone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In principle, we disagree that prostitution is legalized. There are no attempts to legalize prostitution, although before there was a debate about it in public space. But the fact is that now in Croatia we can see in some ads, media spaces ads for this prostitution that is clearly repeated year after year, we see that no situation changes there. At times, we see from the media that police have launched some kind of prevention action, but we still see that this phenomenon is still present. So we've got some gray zone, we haven't made ourselves clear about the problem. It seems to me that the best thing to do is to make ourselves clear, I am also a supporter of this, to make it clear, in principle, that we try to prevent the activity of prostitution, that we are trying to help people who do this because in most cases I think it is also about victims. And that we are trying to prevent this activity from happening through all means, as well as the one I suggested. It has already been debated here to consider increasing the sentence of sexual abuse and child exploitation. I'd agree with that. I believe that crimes such as sexual abuse of a child, the subjugation of a child and others in that head that my impression is, perhaps, too broad minimums and maximums. And it seems to me that there is a real possibility that the perpetrators of such acts that can determine and even ruin the life of a young man, a girl or a boy forever, get away with mild or no punishments. I have to admit that I don't have a very good insight into court practice as a practice of punishment, but the fact is that the person who commits the crime is, say... I don't think it's acceptable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would say that there is a large dark number in this area, so I believe that there is certainly a need for stronger and more special and general prevention. This is where the criminal act of psychological violence is brought into the family. And I welcome you. As it has been said, I agree with most previous speakers that the introduction of such a crime and the prevention of such behaviour is good, but here you would suggest for another reading perhaps consider introducing another form of doing it, which is, in addition to this difficult insult and difficult humiliation. I think it's hard to humiliate a broader form than a heavy insult, and in any case it can almost have the same consequences for the psychological integrity of that person. Here he now prescribes that to commit a crime of environmental endangerment... He prescribes criminal responsibility to stop, which I welcome. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the crime also punishes the more difficult occurrence of the crime. Therefore, there must be a significant threat to the quality of air of soil, underground, water, sea, etc., etc. In light of the fact that here is Croatia will have to introduce to a significant extent waste disposal, waste classification and I think it is expected that we will have an attempt, so it will only be done for citizens to sort out waste, it seems to me that we will have a lot of cases when this waste will be tried in a cheap way by taking care of water streams in the woods etc. It seems to me that there should be consideration of punishing more seriously outside of the criminal and perhaps less severe forms of the work because they could be faced with a much larger volume that could be sublimed in the sum of more severe consequences than any individual act. Also, it's doing some general prevention. And finally, here's the thing, I don't have much time to elaborate, and personally and from the citizens in the talks, I'm often mentioned that in abuse of the fact that a person is not responsible for the obligations of a commercial society, when we talk about trading societies of capital, that when we abuse this circumstance that there is often no punishment, that there is criminal prevention or criminal sanctioning of such cases too little. I think that economic crime should also consider creating perhaps a better framework. It may be a problem even in implementation, it may not be within the legal framework, but I say it is one of the topics for discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86737	The final word of Justice Minister Orsat Milenic, please welcome the ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86738	Thank you very much. I'd like to thank everyone who participated in the debate. This here was one of the more constructive ones for me. We've opened up a number of questions, seen where we stand, and in fact, in which directions we should possibly still talk about passing the law. I'll just look back at a few elements. So it's slow all the time, it's a public interest, and it's actually a question of whether it can be defined in a better way at all. If we can, we're here to try to do it together. However, let us not lose sight first of the fact that it is mentioned in several acts, that the whole law is in some way undefined because it must be and that it is always the court that must establish the last one through its practice some concepts. We can't define them here. If we can move in the right direction, well, but it always stays that way and it will remain because that is the nature of democracy. I mean, we all do something, it's in court to define some concepts. It's impossible to define them differently. Secondly, these crimes, we've seen them well today through means of optics of a public person, bringing personality into it because we've all been exposed in some way, etc., that we're sitting here, and on the other hand through the optics of the media. However, these crimes are primarily due to ordinary citizens. Imagine a citizen who writes very convincingly, puts it in a cage that he's a thief that I don't know was raped by someone, that's what his children read, they're ordinary citizens. Is that what we need to protect? Of course we need to protect. Do we have to take criminal action? Well, we do. Most of the verdicts so far, the vast majority are currently referring to ordinary citizens, not to these special cases like us politicians, public figures, journalists. I think they're being talked about, so then it gets the impression that it's too much, it weighs on the other one. And it's everyday it's part of life, someone slandering, embarrassing, causing him some kind of psychic pain, etc. And that's what we have to keep in mind. We have tried to set this one balance to avoid, however, and now we are opening one issue that is not about the Penal Code, regarding the entire online law dealing with the media and dealing with public life, from the Media Act, part of the Law on Mandatory Relations. The penal code is a small segment. The role of publishers was spoken, the role of publishers is solved by the Media Act. There are penalties for some violations that are much more severe and greater than they are here in criminal law. We talked about advertising, it's also solved through another procedure, it shouldn't be criminal, but someone who does such a form of advertising he's actually got regulatory bodies he's exposed to such penalties that are hundreds of thousands of kunas, so much more than we can achieve here in criminal law. So you should look at it through one whole. If we're satisfied with the situation, then we can talk about changes, but I'm saying this is just one little segment where we went to balance. If we're talking about the media, that this isn't autocensorship means that the Penal Code doesn't serve and doesn't hang over someone's neck and scares them what they're going to do, but on the other hand, that there's one thing that's causing yet points to an increased dose of caution because the media is a dangerous thing in the sense that it can do very much harm to another person. I'm saying, there's got to be a lot of debate about this. Ideal solution, if you're looking, there's nowhere to be found. Everyone always thinks they've weighed one or the other's interests. But that's why we're here to talk about it, the balance is here that we suggested before you and let's go see. If there are any suggestions again to change in one direction or another, if there is something that fits into that concept we are more than open. Mental violence in the family, I think that's good. If it's enough, it's now a question and whether we need to sort it out, expand it, etc. We can talk. But what I said before, let's see it again as a set, criminal protection, criminal justice, which brings us one thing, which brings us another. Penalties with conditional convictions where they often end may be less effective than 90 days in prison in a criminal sentence long before. But criminally it has another effect because it sends a message that it's a particularly difficult act and that as a society we mark it as such and we want it to be punished. But we have to achieve this one balance between each other because sometimes by prescribing, you know, we can all sit here and figure out how to disable some proceedings by putting them in criminal law and complicating the situation sometimes. So let's go see each other in balance. Violent behavior, it's something we need to talk about, and I'm totally here and in this whole thing, but in doing so, see if there's a gap, whether we need to keep this behavior in the wrong way, as it is now with some elements when it grows into physical violence, etc. when he goes to the penitentiary or should be left behind. We were talking about vulnerable people, about certain groups in society, but all of us here, let's imagine in a situation where we come with our kids in a bar that there are five big people that are bigger than us and today they start watering something over our heads, they haven't formally threatened us, they haven't done anything to us, but we've been brought into a situation that we'll remember our whole lives, which will leave us the consequences and leave the consequences to our environment. So these are some of the behaviors that we need to think about and see how we treat them. So here we are, however, I think it's a topic that we need to talk about and see how to coordinate with each other because I'm saying it can't be just... form but we're all potentially exposed to it everywhere. Once again I thank you, so two readings are, and we'll continue to go ahead with some improvements as much as we can, which we'll be able to accept, which we won't explain why we won't see. If you agree, you'll vote if you don't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86739	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86740	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 697. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 111 votes in favour, 1 against and 6 abstentions, have adopted the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86741	And we will discuss today: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes, First Reading, P.Z. No. 690 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Justice Minister Mr Orsat Milenic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86742	Thank you very much. Now we're jumping to one long topic, but there's a possibility of a connection. So we have before us a draft law and there will be two rereads on amendments and additions to the Law on Administrative Disputes. Maybe I'll just start by saying that it's one of those laws that citizens meet more often than the Penal Code we talked about. Why? Because he's basically continuing the administrative procedure and that's something where we're all exposed from a building permit to some other procedure. We're under the influence of everything that's happened in the negotiations, we've opted for a new concept in time to introduce administrative courts full of jurisdiction, which means that everything goes to administrative courts, that's the administrative dispute, we haven't had before, there was a lot of rope before, and now we're actually in a new situation. The new situation for Croatia because we never had this kind of arrangement completely new, it is in force for 2 years, a little more and now there are the results that we have to, which we follow and watch and what we need to change. I will now say what we are proposing to change and I will also announce that it is certain that in the next two, three years it will be discussed again and that it will be watched, that the whole will be seen differently. It's very simple because, let me give you an example, it started with a few thousand objects, now we're at 13,000. Why? Because more and more cases simply come before administrative courts, problems are getting stronger in practice. I'm not sure that three or four years ago when we were setting up such a system to comply enough with the administrative procedure, in many instances we introduced 4 degrees, so a degree more than we had before, but that's something we need to see what's going on. Here are some adjustments, I'll tell you in which direction and what I think we'll achieve with them, but that's a topic that we'll have to look together for a while and see in which direction we'll develop administrative procedures, administrative trials further. I say, it's very important because in the end everything that happens goes through it. So what we saw in practice, unequal court practice, here we talked about through the previous law, here maybe even more important. Because we're closing the possibility as set up, it's set a filter relative to the second degree, so the High Administrative Court, we're actually... a good part in some segments of a separate, completely separate practice of these four administrative courts and that is the problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we here significantly extend the possibility of appeal to the High Administrative Court primarily with the aim of actually equating court practice. He's got room for it. In 2012, he was on some 4,000 items to now fall to a six-year-old level of 1,000 which means a yearly 2000, so there's a space he has and there won't be any suffocation because of what we've done. And too often it happens to us in communication that people get a different solution to the same legal thing. And that's bad, that's bad for everyone. So that's actually the most significant change. Secondly, we are extending deadlines for public law enforcement, not because we are, what we are slow about, but simply the procedure is that when you get a lawsuit against the ministry, you should ask for the first degree of the whole file and it often takes a long time. Sometimes our deadlines run out before the subject ever came and then it's completely decided and then the parties have an even bigger problem again. So it's a minor extension in the overall duration but it actually allows for one better course of procedure. Some things that haven't been normized, let's say the conditions under which a court dispute is allowed to be renewed, those relating to new facts, evidence, etc., simply now, have not been normized and proved to be necessary. We have the Archeological Convention, so it's an environmental issue where, in fact, in accordance with that Convention, whose signatories we are expanding the right of interested citizens to access a court. This will certainly cause a slowdown of some procedures in practice, but we simply joined the Convention and we must fulfill what is required of us. We are filling in certain procedural gaps, simply when the law was passed, there were no provisions regarding exceptions, local competences in certain cases, things concerning the appointment of the holding of the debate, etc., all of these were resolved in practice and the proceedings took place but as soon as the question arises whether or not it means that it is not arranged and that it should be arranged. That's it, that's what I'm saying, whoever's interested, so we keep statistics regularly and watch over this branch of trial. It is certain that in the next period we will need to consider at all how it is structured. We're still, here's purely statistical what interesting data is, so we're now at 34 judges in the first degree as a whole, given the possible inflows might appear quite insufficiently. Now the question is how to fill these places, whether to take people from the outside or within the existing ones, you know that we've replaced the infringing tides by 33%, etc. So there are a whole series of measures to see how, the issue of a misdemeanor and administrative relationship in some things will be questioned, because in some things the administrative decision on the scale, a violation of the criminal penalty, will be decided. So that's the whole thing, so we just got into something that's going to develop and where we're sure we're going to have to make some adjustments. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86743	Thank you, Minister. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is the club of HDZ representatives and counterpart Davor Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86744	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In the introduction of my presentation, I must first look at a few sentences to the 2010 Law on Administrative Disputes, which was adopted and above all aimed at greater protection and the right of citizens, to speed up the administrative process as well as to comply with the legal standards of the European Union. Furthermore, it is also important to highlight the fact that the adoption of a new law has given administrative courts full jurisdiction to determine the facts, not just the application of the law. Accordingly, at the first stage of the administrative trial, an obligation for oral debate was introduced, and a new organisation of administrative proceedings was established in addition to the new procedural rules. The first-degree decisions are now being taken by 4 regional administrative courts in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka and Osijek, thus bringing administrative courts and physically closer to the citizens. The High Administrative Court, based in Zagreb, primarily dealt with the most complex administrative matters and worked on harmonising the practices of regional administrative courts and acted as a court of appeal only when the Court of First Instance gave way to the administrative decision and resolved the administrative matter itself. This system of administrative trial has been in effect since 1 January 2012. I will now return to this draft law today which is second in a series of amendments to the Law on Administrative Disputes. The first amendment and addition of the Law on Administrative Disputes was made in 2012. According to today's proposal of the Law on Administrative Disputes, there are amendments and additions to the laws that will certainly contribute to an even greater improvement in this area. In this presentation, I will look back on only some key amendments and additions to the law. According to the proposal of the legislator, the most important amendment applies to Article 6 amending the provision of Article 30. The law on administrative disputes. That is how, by giving paragraph 2 it is now possible to appeal to all the solutions made for access to the court. The proposed amendment ensures the fundamental right of the party, as well as the unification of judicial practice through the supervision of court decisions by the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, which is set up as a court of appeal, but so far, the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia has not been able to exercise its office to limit the right to appeal. Furthermore, the second essential provision to be amended, which is also positive in this proposal of the law, refers to Article 7 amending Article 32 and refers to the deadlines for responding to the action. By doubling the time limit for responding to the action from 30 to 60 days, it leaves enough time for public authorities to deliver the first-degree file with their answer so that from now on, the High Administrative Court will be able to make decisions of a better quality because it will be based on the first-degree public law file. And also by making more decisions on the measure of things stronger and the quality of court practice. What is also important for the procedural procedure is the addition of Article 15 of the basic law, which, through Article 4 of this proposal, prescribes all provisions relating to cases of a Judge's exemption, who decides on the exemption of the President of the Court, when and how the request for exemption is submitted. Furthermore, according to the draft law, the renewal of the court dispute is also permitted under certain conditions. This means that this supplement will allow the parties to renew the procedure if they learn about new facts or gain the opportunity to use new evidence that would affect a more favourable solution to things. Therefore, as I have already said in the introduction, these amendments and additions to the Law on Administrative Disputes will certainly contribute to a more efficient and quality work of the administrative court, which is a key and fundamental matter for the citizens. Therefore, the HDZ club will support changes to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86745	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86746	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. There's no Mr. Minister, but he's here all the time, so he'll hear this debate if he comes out for a while, along with his co-worker. The HDSB club will also support this legislative proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Administrative Disputes. Namely, just as my colleague said before, it is the fact that a second-degree procedure can now be conducted in the High Administrative Court, so as it says in Article 6 that an appeal is allowed, therefore, to the High Administrative Court, and by administrative act after the first-degree ruling when there was no real appeal, now has it. So administrative disputes can be resolved now in two degrees which, I would say, is a much better solution than only by the final solution of that basic administrative court which is now established and which operate in Split, Rijeka, Zagreb and Osijek. This is the newspaper and this 60-day legal provision that materials in some administrative dispute are delivered from the basic administrative court to the High Administrative Court in the Frankopanski report in Zagreb, is also a good thing. But what I would still have to mention in the debate is that some of my data that I have and that I found don't exactly agree with the information that the minister presented because here it is on one occasion, however, is the information from the end of July 2013, when there were 40,000 unsolved cases. It has been said that there are now about 1,000 cases pending at the High Administrative Court this year, if I have heard the words of the minister well. So I wonder if this is a total of 40,000 cases on all these four basic administrative courts, together with the High Administrative Court or something else, because we know that more and more of these lawsuits for trial are within a reasonable period where the Republic of Croatia, the state of Croatia, through these trials, there is a relatively large amount of money, and on the basis of that provision that the first-degree procedure should be completed in 3 years, and secondly another 3 years, and that would be what is within some reasonable time. Croatia together with the spell of Malta in the European Union actually has one of the longest, so deadlines, trials and whether this measure will be expressed, so when it can be reached, when a second-degree procedure is allowed in the Administrative Court. Is that gonna make it a little bit more of this one? I know that there is a need for uniform court practice that will then actually be carried out by the High Court of Justice. But will this then, given the two stages of the procedure, be a little bit further off the time limits of the trial in the Administrative Courts. It seems almost inevitable. I would like to prove the efficiency of the Administrative Courts and the High Administrative Court so that things that make citizens run administrative disputes because they are of great vital importance, which is why I know tax, customs solutions, privileges, pension, health insurance, labour and service disputes, concessions, public procurement and solutions related to building local permits being conducted in the Administrative Courts. So a wide-ranging leprosy, wide repertuary, so the cases in the Administrative Court will give this, allowing and second-degree procedure to be slightly longer. Well, maybe justice is slow, but it's as they say it is. However, it is good that there is also a possibility of a second-degree procedure precisely because of the unification of judicial practice, clearly both greater justice and justice in society. Well, here, Mr. Minister, we will support your bill. I tried to be Salapic, but as far as I could, I did replace my colleague. Well, here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86747	On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Vesna Sabalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86748	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with a co-worker, distinguished vice president of the Croatian Parliament. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party – Liberal Democrats fully agrees with the motion's opening explanation and will, of course, support the amendment and addition of the Law on Administrative Disputes. I personally like my colleagues, and as Mr. Minister said, I hold that this law is the most important thing for citizens since it regulates judicial oversight of the work of the administration, or judicial oversight of public authorities. The public authority, whether it is local, regional or state-owned in administrative proceedings, or administrative trials where it appears almost always or most often as a defendant, should have the exact same rights and responsibilities as other legal persons. However, its power in administrative procedures exceeds the power of all others either because of legal powers or because of the possibility of abuse of power. Each government tends to maintain and strengthen its power and that is what I could say natural social processes, and then opens up space and the possibility of abuse by doing or by doing it. Every responsible authority, and I consider this authority very responsible, must have the tools for its control and restraint. One of the instruments of control of that power is the Law on Administrative Disputes which should or might be called the Law on the Efficiency of Government. We know that until 2012 as my colleagues said just before me that the Law on Administrative Disputes was passed by citizens and entrepreneurs in disputes with the state had no right to an impartial trial. Non-public meetings were held without oral and contradictory discussions, and the Administrative Court was not even a court with full powers in the trial. Such an administrative trial is contrary to the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and, therefore, a reform of the Administrative Court started in 2007 and was attended by the German Foundation for International Legal Cooperation and the Austrian Institute for Human Rights. The project was completed if I'm not mistaken in 2008. It's not known why he wasn't released immediately. Perhaps because of the discovery of an alarming increase in lawsuits against the state in 2009. It was only 2012 that the Law on Administrative Disputes was adopted to ensure the legality, equality of citizens and legal certainty with these amendments and additions. As colleagues have said in previous discussions, the most important thing in each bill is to assess their relevance, efficiency and speed. This is the last and weakest point in the administrative trial – speed. When we know that in administrative disputes we have a four-stage procedure, and that the administrative dispute is in fact starting with an appeal of an administrative act before public authorities. So, it starts by complaining about a solution or a decision by some subject to government. Let's be honest, it usually ends up on the system of cadium sues, caddies judge. And even when it is quite clear that the dispute will be lost by the public or executive authorities very often drive the water to its mill to end because they either have no money to pay off their debts or the verdict could come before the elections and force both the judiciary and prosecutors and the believers to spend their time, taxpayers' money and power to slow down and end in someone's second term. By stalling they can't lose anything anyway, there's no personal responsibility or she's very small for illegal conduct. There is also no responsibility for officials who, acting under the General Administrative Procedure Act, had to make a legal decision and did not. When procedures and procedures prescribed by the General Administrative Procedure Act are legally and properly implemented, the risk of infringement of the right of citizens is almost completely reduced. I know this is a question that should be referred to or reminded to Minister Bauku, but this is a point to which attention must be paid because the issue of the efficiency of the government is a key issue for the legal security of citizens. This law partially resolves the issue. I will repeat once again, every responsible authority must have tools to protect the legality, protect citizens' rights and protect public interest and, in my assessment, public interest, include efficiency and economics of the administrative trial. And lastly, I would quote the former state attorney "the worst choice is to conduct a dispute, disputes are lost, costs are to be paid to prosecutors, and it is more appropriate to settle them by settlement and avoid unnecessary litigation." Perhaps experts, Mr. Minister, could also help with some motivational details even in this law and offer representatives of the public authority to settle and courts to deliver judgments within a reasonable period of time. These changes and additions are kept in step towards a better administrative trial but we know that it will take a lot more steps to an effective, meaningful, fast and economic administrative trial i.e. effective, meaningful and economic judicial oversight of public authorities entities, and that is what Mr. Minister said in his presentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86749	On behalf of SDP representative Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86750	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable ministers, colleagues and colleagues. These amendments and additions to the Law on Administrative Disputes therefore introduce changes aimed at clarifying and clarifying certain situations which may have proved controversial in practice by applying the law so far. In any case, the SDP club will support this bill. This seems therefore to improve the procedural provisions concerning jurisdiction, the exceptions of judges, representations, the secrecy of individual documents in the file, procedural provisions on termination of proceedings. Therefore, there is a clearer regulation of the obvious situations which have proved to be controversial in practice, which in practice have shown that their interpretation may have caused certain doubts, impasses in the process, slowed down the process or potentially led to different practices in the course of action. Of course, here is when we list these provisions individually highlighted, and there is certainly a need to further clarify these provisions which regulate the maintenance of order during the procedure, an explanation so when the must at which hearing is therefore to be announced that a verdict will be made. By order of the hearing at which the verdict is announced that it is held independently on this... they have been notified, or have joined the hearing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Substantial change is essentially contained in Article 66a, which is now authorised and appeal to the Court of First Instance's decision in certain cases. So that would lead to say four degrees and they would say that it might slow down the procedure, but it is a necessary consequence that we have to accept if what we want therefore to show in practice is a problem of inequality of judicial practice in certain very important administrative matters. So when we talk about slowing down this process, there may be a possibility that in some way these procedures may be accelerated by others... and even in a administrative process which may be a subject that is not therefore the subject of this law. In any case, it should be referred to as a whole that is linked to the decisions of this law because in practice we know that, often in administrative proceedings, the lodging of an appeal does not help much. Therefore, in the second-degree administrative procedure very, very rarely, the second-degree administrative body shall repeal or amend the decision of the first-degree body. Often these two bodies are located, they are the same bodies, they are related bodies, and through practice, we find it difficult to find a lot of cases where an appeal against a first-degree solution could have changed a maybe jurisprudence. And in fact, I would say that in the administrative process, we even find reasons for too many difficulties in the duration of the procedure itself. Therefore, when we talk about this topic, I would also have to think about inter-resorship cooperation on measures to speed up the administrative process itself. So when we talk about certain provisions that may not be immediately welcomed at first sight, such as extending the deadlines for, say, responding to the complaint, the needs also point out that the deadline has been extended because it has been realistically often unsustainable. However, I would find that, in these cases, we must also create conditions for these deadlines to be reduced in practice as much as possible by improving the working conditions of administrative bodies, in general administrative judicial bodies, I would primarily say the introduction of higher principles of the E-Government into work and administrative and judicial bodies. So when we talk about a lot of files, then surely that the file... on another route travels a long time, until it is copied, until it is imported, until it starts, etc., it has to go... a long time. But if I have it in electronic form, then it can be delivered in a fraction of a second, it can't be lost, lost, changed, etc. I think we must make great efforts to achieve significant improvements in this area because it means savings and time and money. Personally whenever I had in practice some case where administrative trial was involved, it always took an extremely long time, the exceptional were..., here was the speech, the minister said that statistical indicators were available. Here, it is recommended that we see in essence what is... the duration, perhaps administrative trial in certain cases, whether there is a... classification because I say, the duration of the administrative procedure, and the duration of... of the administrative trial, the short duration of one and the other of this procedure is a condition for citizens to also exercise some of their essential rights, but also for any economic activity,... investments and therefore, anything related to the exercise of certain rights or requirements to the state administration to be effectively conditioned, so also at speed. Therefore, it would be interesting to hear the data as to how on average it may take, in certain areas, to obtain a building permit and to obtain certain permits, to resolve certain administrative matters, and from this we might be able to conclude which steps to take to make this process more efficient, more efficient. Finally, of course, this bill is welcome in most of the technical alignment with the needs of practice, in any case it should be welcomed and supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86751	Minister, would you like to finish? I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill on Friday. That would be the conclusion of the debate today, and tomorrow, at 9.30, we start with the Bill of Rights of Victims of Sexual Violence in the Homeland War. Thank you very much. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-25-0.u86752	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on administrative disputes, first reading, P.Z. No. 690. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Disputes is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law.". Please, let's vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, with 117 votes, we have accepted the proposed conclusion.
