ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u64241	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, the scenario is classic, but the flood situation in Croatia lasts for 3 weeks and has no indication of any repairs. Because of the people who are at risk in this area, because of the cry coming from this area, I ask a 10 minute break on behalf of the HDSSB club to discuss it here in the highest representative House of the Croatian People and the Croatian State.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u64242	The next hand is respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u64243	Same reason the Labour Club is looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u64244	Thank you very much. HDZ, honourable representative Ivan Shuker. A fellow Shuker, the same reasons. Is there anyone else? Okay, I'll set a break at 45, 9.45. Thank you very much. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Let's get this straight. The position of the HDSSB club and respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u64246	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Every day back 3, 4 weeks we look at dramatic images from the flooded areas of Sisak-Moslavina, Karlovac and some other counties in the smaller range of central Croatia. The areas from which these dramatic images come, including the cry of the inhabitants we hear on HRT about these calls, the Croatian Parliament did not find the situation to be discussed accordingly. So that's why I asked for this break to be discussed and to say some things publicly. In fact, in 20 years, the Croatian state's flood damage has been reported to amount to 30 billion kuna. In 2003, the damage was 404 million kuna, 2007. 144 million kuna and in 2010 I only talk about the three years in which the amount of damage was the largest, so 2010. 320 million kuna. In those three years alone, the damage was 868 million kuna. Croatian water for dikes is about 700, 750 million kunas exactly twice as much as the amount of cars and tyres bought a few days ago through the lising. Declarations made by government officials and even the highest in the field discourage, even saddening citizens in the area that is flooded. In fact, to say that you should consider moving people out of the area because it's cheaper than building a dikes is a disastrous statement. About not being able to drink all the water and that the government can't drink it and that's one of the very, very ugly statements that talked all about how floods are thought. About what will happen in the future as bad news from bad dreams will happen in the future. So what kind of message is that to those citizens? About the fact that the tenders for the embankments are called that there is money, but that the problems with public procurement that there are complaints, cars seem to be complaints, but there are complaints for nasips, and that the slowness in the settlement and construction of the embankment is problematic precisely because of public procurement. About transferring responsibility to anyone else so that I don't say the worse for these rains and melting snow except for myself and the government itself that should be out in the field by myself, the situation has led to one thought about how to solve it, how to help this government that is asking for help from us and from the opposition, how to solve some things? What is the stream of the river of the Sava, which is influenced by both Odra and Kupa, and Lonja, and the Alonah, and a series of other rivers which have been poured out these days, that I may not forget? Well, the thing is that the Sava River as the main conditionalally spoken siphon, collects all these little rivers and they are the tributaries of the Sava River. It is a sign of the desolation of the river Sava and the carelessness of Croatian waters about it. Last year's 9th lipoda was organised by the HAZU lecture on this issue. And Minister Vrdoljak was at the meeting and there were plans to move the Sava River flow, to keep the port in Velika Gorica, to rid the entire area of floods of flood protection. But unfortunately, since this lecture in the HAZU organisation has been held since then nothing is done, there is no strategy. But if we look at the courtyard of Croatian waters then we will see the ergel of expensive and most expensive cars, if we look at the budget of Croatian waters we will see an education of 100 thousand euros for half last year, for the first 6 months of last year and we will see that the money is collected from water fees and from so on. The fees for the rainwaters, they use for quite another purpose. Only one quarter of the money is used I will. [[Intruder Leko: Bring the end of your colleagues.]] And we need all of us here to think together and reach conclusions to deal differently with water management, to protect this area, not to move out, and finally to keep the inhabitants of that area safe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u64247	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, respected representative Branko Vukšić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u64248	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here we are talking about a problem that is not two years old, which is not five or ten years old, it's a few decades old. Instead of systematic care at work is systematic carelessness. However, when the highest government officials send messages that are really not at least in order, which can piss off the population that is in a major accident then we have an even bigger problem, then we see that people in power don't really understand what's going on. It is said, Mr. Zoran Milanovic, except that it might be best to move those people out of Letovanovic, who have lived there for centuries to move to other places in Croatia, somewhere where there are no floods and let go of the water verse that beautiful place. He said it was probably a natural disturbance. First of all, he's guilty of such a condition, of such an accident, a human factor. The riverbed was not maintained for years, and the riverbed was not maintained for decades. They didn't keep up the dikes, we look at the same pictures every time. When the flood occurs, when unhappy people need out of the house, then politicians show up with rescue messages but this time even the prime minister has not even given rescue messages but let's move people out and then promises are made. The damage is huge, the accident is huge, and the people are powerless. In these most difficult times, disillusioned people say the flood is worse and the fire helps the army. But when the water retreats, when the flood hides the worst face, when politicians go away and there are no more journalists and no more cameras, only damage remains, desperate people remain citizens with problems and feel left behind. All that was flooded this year and the previous years, what my colleague Grubisic said about how much money, how much damage it was done to invest in the maintenance of the trough for years, maintaining the embankment in the planning prevention of major damages, today certainly wouldn't talk about it or be those damages because nature is hard to contain far, far less. And when you get those bills you pay, every citizen, there's from craftsmen, entrepreneurs, and to citizens you have items about waterless columns for what you need to pay for, for which all Croatian waters get money. In particular, where money is spent, are these people capable of running the systems on which they are headed, and as long as people who are exposed to floods are not going to suffer and suffer the incompetence of those who should in any way prepare for emergency. Are we going to get any effect looking for this break? We won't, for sure. The people who care about it will shake hands, the people who are flooded and who are unhappy will still have the same problems but we have shown at least interest and we are trying to put pressure on the government to create a different atmosphere that from today on, when the autumn floods will be again, so when there will be spring floods, it is next year that different preparations and to treat people differently and not to send them a terrible message, it is best for you to move out. Well, probably the younger ones will move out of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u64249	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker on behalf of the HDZ Club in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u64250	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So here are three weeks of 50 kilometers from Zagreb to a thousand of our citizens just struggling to save their property and unfortunately many lost in that battle because they couldn't do anything. However, what I would like to say on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club is that the state institutions and leaders of these institutions should simply implement decisions made by the Croatian government. Why am I saying that? So I speak for the reason that after the 2010 flood, the Croatian Government has reached certain conclusions and today, when someone goes to analyse these conclusions, then you will see that the institutions that needed these conclusions have not even implemented 10%. And one of the reasons these conclusions haven't been carried out is that my Uncle Poljana swims like this today as he swims. Because if that road had been built along the hillside and down towards Veleshevec, it would have been practically one natural dam to flood those return waters of Chico Poljana as they flood. But what I would also like to say, colleagues and colleagues, would be very interesting to see how much those who are so institutionally concerned about bringing people bags and other things to save themselves from the flood, how much they will charge their costs and how much compensation they will be to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are flooded and then you will see this huge disproportionate. Can't the one who brought bags and sand and did other things charge that job far more than the damage that the citizens are going to receive. Look, I'm talking about one area that I know extremely well and that's Chicka Poljana, which has practically flooded the houses since 2010. You know what it means when every year moisture enters the house who can pull it out more? And to say that it's best for these people to move out is the worst thing you can tell anyone at that point that water penetrates the house so that maybe a million times you're right and you're not right at all because these people have lived there for centuries and centuries 90 percent of those houses that are flooded today haven't been flooded. And it is very interesting that those who take care and who we end up paying all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia did not predict three places from Popupski to Žažina on which Kupa will spill over to its left side across the road and flood the houses that are truly speaking much lower than those on the side where the river Kupa is. If there'd been a dikes there, it probably wouldn't have happened. I had the opportunity to see twice in Vukovar that Croatian waters were greatly defending that Sports House in the center of Vukovar where they made bags around that home and although the Danube grew over a meter and a half did not flood that home. So it can be done, something can be saved if the experience of those who know how to work is used. And that one question that was never clear to me and when I was Minister and Vice-President of the Government, we brought the gravel and sand from 100 km away for the Zagreb-Sisak highway. At the same time as I remember at Ivanja Reka, and look now, you always have that island where you stack that gravel and always get the gravel out because of those coals in Slovenia was put on the piles there from the ceiling to wash out the rain. After all, with this gravel was built a large part of the highway from Zagreb to Varazdin. The same story is with Coop. A bowl that hasn't been out of sand for years and just made mud and the bottom is what it is. So that's what those of you who understand, I'm no expert in that area. We spend over 700 million a year on channel maintenance. One place next to Velika Mraclin was flooded exclusively because it was flooded by the coastal waters of Kupa and Odre but rather by certain openings that they later made, one was there by the bridge, which was done by Croatian railways, could not swallow water and that water returned, flooded people and houses and industrial plants. And now, colleagues and colleagues, I'm reading that our president is going to Australia and New Zealand for 13 days, and he's probably going to get his experience down there, just don't let God think he's negotiating down there to move those who are flooded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u64251	Thank you, too. After the breaks and explanations of the representatives of the clubs why they were looking for breaks, I am left to say that all other representatives are solid and sensitive with the flooded citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and this should be marked as a representative question of the club representatives so that we can get some information, a report, that we have some effect from these things, from the competent authorities and institutions regarding the situation in the flooded areas, measures and possibilities for the resolution or prevention of such events. Thank you very much. And now we move on to the established agenda, i.e. - Proposal for a Life Partnership Act, first reading, PZ No. 584 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to the first reading of the law apply to the adoption of this law, which are articles 183.-188. The debate on the bill was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Gender Equality, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. The Honorable Minister of Management Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72406	Your Honor, Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs. In front of us is the Proposal for a Life Partnership Act in the first reading, a law that has long been drawn up, which has produced a lot of media attention and around which a very broad public debate has been held, a consultation with the interested public has been carried out, and therefore we have provided you with all the comments, complaints and praises that we have received on this text of the law and allow me to explain it even more in detail. The existing legal framework governing the position of same-sex communities in the Republic of Croatia is insufficient. The Law on Gender Equality and the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. Anti-discrimination guarantees prescribed by these laws primarily protect individuals. Unfavorable treatment of same-sex communities is not in itself prohibited by these laws. It will enter into the reach of anti-discrimination guarantees if the condition of such unfavourable treatment is demonstrated by the specific sexual orientation of the persons forming the community. The existing 2003 Law on Equal Communities prescribes an extremely narrow range of rights that cannot provide a basis for the everyday functioning of same-sex life communities. The law on the same-sex communities provides the same-sex partners with the right to mutual restraint and the right to acquire common assets. In addition to the above, the rights and privileges governed by other laws do not apply to the same sex but mainly to the marriage and most of the extramarital community. Moreover, the way the conditions of the creation of the same-sex community have been set has proved difficult in real life. As a result, we say that since 2003, when the Law on Same-Sex Communities has been passed until today, no single community has been officially confirmed. This also means that no couple has achieved this modest scope of property rights that provides them with an existing legal framework. The existing legal framework is not in line with the human rights protection system of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Since the adoption of the Law on Same-Sex Communities 10 years ago, the European Court of Human Rights has made a series of decisions that clearly result in the current norms governing the position of same-sex communities in Croatian society not meeting the standards developed by the European Court of Human Rights by interpreting Articles 8 and 14. European Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The European Court of Human Rights has set a clear standard that Member States cannot deny to same-sex communities those rights that have provided heterosexual communities. Which of the heterosexual communities represents an appropriate comparative, the European Court of Human Rights assesses from case to case. Furthermore, the European Court of Human Rights has clearly found that stable emotional same-sex communities represent a family unit and enjoy the protection of Article 8. The Convention, regardless of the parallel situation of heterosexual communities. The following Member States have an obligation to provide same-sex communities with those rights that are necessary for the successful functioning of a stable emotional community of life, i.e. family units. The European Court of Human Rights also does not consider that, at this stage, the development of a system of protection of the Convention necessary for Member States to ensure full marital equality, which means that, in that sense, the referendum implemented was in line with this. However, the Court pointed out explicitly that in the future such a case could become more so that the Charter of Human Rights of the European Union gave up so far the traditional definition of marriage as a heterosexual community, i.e. the increasing number of states prescribed complete marital equality. This clears the legal obligation of the legislative authorities to ensure the proper legal position for communities of same-sex persons both under the European Convention and even more importantly under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It should be noted as the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has consistently decided since 1998 that the European Convention on Human Rights constitutes an integral part of the constitutional framework of the Republic of Croatia, and that the provisions of the Constitution should be interpreted and applied in accordance with the way in which the European Court of Human Rights interprets and implements the relevant provisions of the European Convention. From all above, the existing legal framework does not provide a minimum of the rights necessary for the successful functioning of the community of persons of same-sex orientation. By denying these communities the rights provided to heterosexual communities, the legal order of the Republic of Croatia does not respect the convention guarantee of non-discrimination. The existing legal framework also does not comply with the European Union's competent law. The Court of Justice of the European Union consistently decided that civil-sustainable issues such as family arrangements in the autonomous regulatory jurisdiction of the Member States themselves should not be used individually to discriminate against citizens and citizens of the EU on the basis of their sexual orientation as regards access to the rights of which the regulation enters the EU. In other words, the EU is contrary to the law which is governed by its legal law in any national law norm, and in Member States, certain labour, pension, social and health rights that enter EU competence define as a privilege limited exclusively to marriage heterosexual communities. By limiting the whole range of labour rights, i.e. pension, social and health rights related to the position of the person on the labour market and in society in general exclusively to the spouses or extramarital partners and their families, the legal order of the Republic of Croatia did not fully implement the second guarantee of equal treatment prescribed by the relevant acts of the European Union. The existing legal framework lags behind social development. The Republic of Croatia represents one of the 12 EU Member States which has de facto not prescribed some form of life union for same-sex communities that would allow them to have minimal equality of opportunity. The vast majority of Member States have provided a legal framework guaranteeing the equality of opportunities for same-sex communities. At the moment of drawing up proposals from 8 EU Member States and Switzerland as a member of the European Economic Common Area, they regulated the same-sex life union through an institute of registered same-sex or life partnership. An additional 8 Member States have already prescribed full marital equality. In addition to these 8 countries, Norway should be added, i.e. Iceland as members of the European Economic Common Area. In short, 19 EU member states or the European Economic Common Area have detailed the issue of same-sex communities, and 12 of them including Croatia have not yet done so. The Charter of Human Rights of the EU defines marriage as a community of two, stressing that the question of the definition of marriage is within the competence of the Member States provided that they do not restrict the rights of persons of the same-sex orientation guaranteed by the EU, including freedom of movement, or long-term stay throughout the EU. Starting from the above, the case-law of the Court of Justice and the European Court of Human Rights, the Constitutional Courts of the Member States have made a series of decisions guaranteeing the equality of same-sex communities. For example, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Austria recently ruled that the constitutional guarantee of the prohibition of discrimination, or the protection of dignity, requires that same-sex couples have the right to enter into a registered partnership in a civil procedure that is identical to that in which heterosexual couples marry. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Italy recently ruled that there are no material and legal constitutional or legal reasons why recognition of the validity of same-sex marriages concluded abroad under the law of other countries which allow such marriage could be refused. The Constitutional Court of the Federal Republic of Germany has ruled that it is negligent to allow equal partners living in the registered life community to adopt their partner's biological child as a violation of the prohibition of discrimination prescribed by the German Constitution. In line with the above, the aim of the Proposal for a Life Partnership Act was to set a legal framework which would increase the scope of the rights of same-sex, community of same-sex persons. In this respect, it was necessary to regulate the registration of the same-sex community whose institutionalisation will also establish the legal effects of the same-sex community. It is crucial to stress that living communities of same-sex persons are a social fact and are an integral part of Croatian society. Since the existence of communities of same-sex partners is the reality of the Proposal for a Life Partnership Act is primarily governed by the already existing situation. In this sense, the Life Partnership Law proposal provides for a number of practical life rights related to the status of life partners necessary for everyday normal life in all aspects, and we have sought to properly address the rights of marriage partners. The proposal for a Life Partnership Act proposes to enable the same-sex partners to enter into a life partnership before the state body and to register the same in the Register of Life Partnerships run by the parent offices. By doing so, all civil status records would be kept by the same bodies and would carry out life partnership notes through the birth certificate. The law includes the legal effects of the same-sex community which would also concern an informal same-sex community such as general rights and obligations, restraint, property relations, succession, tax status, life partnership status in pension insurance, welfare system, health care, employment and employment relations, public and market access, and the public legal position of the life partnership in terms of free movement, asylum protection, temporary stay, family integration and acquisition of Croatian citizenship. We wanted to regulate relations with children if they live in a family community of same-sex partners, taking into account the interests of child protection, from the right to co-determination in matters of everyday life, restraint, independent decision-making in important situations, decision-making with children to the achievement of parental care. The differences that exist between same sex and heterosexual communities in terms of rights relate primarily to the position of children. The proposal for a Life Partnership Act does not provide for the possibility of adopting children for life partners. At the same time, in accordance with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights and respecting the constitutional principle of equal treatment, the Life Partnership Act recognises the existing situation and the fact that same-sex communities with children exist and provides for the possibility of obtaining the right, care and life partner over the child of another life partner. The decision to obtain care shall be based exclusively on the protection and promotion of the welfare of the child. In this way, same sex mates are brought into a comparable position that in marriage communities have stepmothers or stepdads. The Proposal for a Life Partnership Act regulates two options for childcare that are not excluded. Both come from the fact that the same-sex communities in which their children live and that for the sake of the welfare of all members of such community and children, it is especially necessary to regulate the relationship between parents, children and life partners who are not parents but who live and care for those children. It should also be taken into account that the development of comparative court practice in EU Member States indicates that the failure of a legislator to ensure that a child living in such communities has a decent development of emotional relations with both persons who care about his well-being is recognised as discrimination against the child himself. The bill contains two possible acts of childcare, the first model of parental care, which follows the provisions on parental care in accordance with the Family Law or the proposal for a family law that is in the second reading, before the second reading of this law, so that these provisions will be followed closely. Such provisions would place a non - parent mate in a position comparable to that of a stepdad or stepmom to a mate’s children. Such a person would not become a parent of a child but would have the obligation to care for the interests of a child until his age. The court would always be able to take away the parental care of a life party if he felt that the interests of a child were compromised. Another institute, another model introduces the Institute of Parter Care. Parter care also does not allow adoption of a child, the possibility of obtaining partner care would arise only after the death of a parent’s parent’s parent on condition that another parent is not alive. However, respecting the specificity of planning a family life partnership in which children live, extremely partner care can be acquired for the lives of a parent who lives in a life partnership and if another parent is not known. Such a solution was necessary in order to regulate relations in those same-sex communities where one of them started artificial insemination on the basis of a joint decision. Although the Croatian legal framework provides the possibility of medically assisted fertilisation only if there is a health obstacle to conception, same-sex couples in a significant number go to EU countries where access to medical services is more liberal. In view of the European and constitutional obligations of the legislator, the draft Life Partnership Act could not ignore such a reality. Based on partner care, rights and obligations arise between the child and the parent partner, both in terms of legal effects. The application of the Parter Care Institute would ensure greater legal certainty and protection of a child and a life-longer who is not a parent in entirely specific relationships. In both models, the court is a key protector of the child’s interest and both life mate models that acquire childcare do not become his parent and is not accordingly introduced into the parent records as a parent of a child. By regulating the above-mentioned areas of the bill, the same-sex community of deiura would be placed in an equal social position with regard to heterosexual life communities, thus fulfilling the constitutional obligation to respect all citizens regardless of their differences. The constitutional principle of equal due respect by the state authority is reflected in the fact that the bill includes a whole series of provisions that regulate specific life issues relevant to the same-sex communities already regulated by the legal order in relation to heterosexual communities. In this way, the state government clearly shows that it equally respects the interests of all its citizens regardless of their sexual orientation. The bill also includes an explicit provision under which unfavorable treatment would be conditional upon the fact that a person in a life partnership represented a form of discrimination based on sexual orientation. The differences in treatment between same-sex and heterosexual communities allowed by law would only be permitted provided they do not constitute a hidden form of discrimination based on sexual orientation. The bill explicitly allows for several differences in the treatment of same-sex communities in relation to heterosexual life communities, more specifically in relation to marriages justified by legitimate objectives and in accordance with the conditions of proportionality. The fundamental setting of the draft law on permitted differences is that at this time of social development in Croatia and Europe are generally a pragmatic demographic compromise between the social position and the world-wide horizons related to the arrangement of same-sex communities in significant tension. However, in order to meet the standards stemming from the European Convention, the bill prescribes that the registered and unregistered life partnerships of the two persons of the same sex represent a family life unit. This concerns, in particular, the issue of recognition of the origin, i.e. the termination of partnership as a minimum of legal certainty necessary for the achievement of other life rights. Furthermore, the draft law follows the interpretation of the standard set out in Article 8. The Convention, and as a necessary minimum, includes the issue of mutual restraint, shared property, succession, mutual representation, freedom of movement, the right to bring together separate families, the relationship with children whose parent founded the partnership and who live with it in such a community. Similarly, in order to achieve the Conventional Standard, the draft law contains specific provisions which provide the same-sex communities with those rights which enjoy heterosexual communities in the Republic of Croatia. Equalising the same-sex communities of life with heterosexual communities with regard to the specific life rights necessary for the successful functioning of a stable and emotional community of the common life of two persons, the bill also responded to the convention's demands to ban discriminatory treatment against stable and emotional communities of life of the same-sex partners. The bill contains provisions relating to freedom of movement, especially the area which represents one of the fundamental rights of the EU legal order. In relation to the freedom of movement of persons in the Republic of Croatia seeking the employment of their families, the bill respects the firm Constitutional principle of mutual recognition, which forms the cornerstone of the EU common market. The principle of mutual recognition requires Member States to give confidence or respect for the assessment of other Member States. In this context, the bill explicitly states that the Republic of Croatia will respect the way in which other Member States define the institutions of marriage, the extramarital community or life partnership and the citizens of other Member States located in such communities will ensure equal rights relating to the issue of EU competence for both citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The bill also reflects the real social context in which the Republic of Croatia is in relation to the situation of same-sex communities in Croatian society. Furthermore, the draft law clearly reflects the need to fully regulate the situation of same-sex communities in order to remove existing barriers to their social equality and meet those constitutional and European legal obligations. As stated above, the bill also reflects the obligation of equal respect for all citizens in equating equal sex communities with the rights of recognised heterosexual communities, as well as at the level of symbolism as for example. the way and the way in which the life partnership is concluded. At the same time, the bill reflects the fact that a significant part of the citizens has a certain fear or skepticism in terms of significant interventions in ways in which traditional family life is traditionally arranged in Croatian society. Whether someone considers such an attitude justified or not, the fact is that it is a legitimate democratic right to a different opinion. The bill's proposal is an attempt at a democratic compromise between the values of views and the world's current tensions in Croatian society. The compromise is reflected in the following features of the bill's proposal, the bill introduces a life partnership institution as a form of common life for same-sex persons, the institution of marriage remains limited to the community of two different sexes. The Life Partnership Act proposal ensures access to most of the specific life rights traditionally enjoyed by heterosexual communities. In this respect, the equality of opportunities for practical things for both gender and heterosexual communities is ensured, and the difference in their form reflects different traditions of building a common life. The differences that exist between same sex and heterosexual communities in terms of rights relate primarily to the position of children. This recognises that at this stage, the development of the positions of same-sex communities in Croatian society, the greatest interest and the uncertainty of a significant number of citizens is directed towards the position of children. The bill does not provide for the possibility of adopting children by life partners. As parents, the draft law respects the existing situation and the fact that same-sex communities with children exist and foresees the possibility of gaining the right to care for a life partner over another life partner's child. Life partnerships are provided with concrete practical rights necessary for everyday normal life. The differences that remain between same sex and heterosexual communities primarily exist and reflect respect for the different traditions behind the development of these communities. The differences that allow equality of opportunities in real life satisfy the current convention minimum and are in line with the principle of proportionality. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I call on you, therefore, to discuss this law in a democratic and toleranceal debate and to try to make a minority group equal with everyone else to the greatest extent possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72407	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We're going to the replica set now. Dear Vice President of the House, Željko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72408	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, you initially said as the main argument for the adoption of this law that it is correcting or reducing or removing discrimination. But if we look at the title of this law itself, he is already, he, and later I will explain during the debate and in the text, deeply discriminatory. In accordance with the new political correctness, the people to whom this law applies, although I personally think because of the duality it was not intended to be written, did not want to write that it was a law on the life partnership of same-sex persons, I do not know why, but in any case, the person to whom it relates is called an English acronym, LGBTIQ. In doing so, this law applies to the first two letters, let's face it. To L or lesbo and G or homosexual men. It does not refer to bisexual, transgender and inter-sex persons, which is discriminatory. However, if we look at what native theorists say, which I must say immediately, I do not agree with, but they cite a whole series of other variants of the inborn, androgenic, the court, the cystic, neutral, non-binal, pandrodic, etc. persons who are also being discriminated against in this law and the title itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72409	The reply to the replica, Honorable Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72410	So as far as the title of the law is concerned, this is the first reading, if you have a better proposal, we'd be happy to listen to it and if you'd be on the trail of what we're trying to achieve, probably, and support it. As for your findings, it refers to LG, not BT, IQ, etc. If there's another person's letter, then it's the same. So I didn't even mention that it refers to LGBT, so I was talking about people who are willing to partner with a person of the same sex, and I didn't take it as an objection to the law, but rather as an objection to a part of a public debate that talks about the LGBT community, which is actually about LG. And on further elaborates, I believe there will be time in the debate to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72411	Honorable representative Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72412	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, it's hard to run politics and be in conflict with almost all social groups. Yesterday we had this with trade unions and workers, and today we have with Croatian citizens who, as you know, were already 1.12. almost three months ago in a referendum on constitutional definition of marriage as a male and female community in 66.27% declared themselves. But in your debate, you said the Life Partnership Act brought great attention to the media and after a public debate he is here today in front of you in the Croatian Parliament. and you forget the fact that three days after the referendum was held, the Deputy Prime Minister, not the first vice president, said there was no confusion, that regardless of the results of the referendum, most of the coalitions have a majority in the Croatian Parliament and they will vote this law, and then you give the law in public debate. Don't you think that's hypocritical?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72413	The reply to the replica, Honorable Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72414	Your Honor, I've never been in conflict with anyone for a fair cause, that's my first. And as for the conflict, I would warn you not to come into conflict with the Constitutional Court which is relevant three days before the referendum or a few days before in its statement on the National Constitutional Conference on the definition of marriage from 14 November 2013, and not three days more than in paragraph 12. He wrote "The Constitutional Court eventually considers the need for the following, possible addition to the Constitution by which marriage of women and men should not have any effect on the further development of the legal frameworks of extramarital and same-sex communities in accordance with the constitutional requirement that everyone in the Republic has the right to respect and legal protection of their personal and family life and of their human dignity". It's about the constitutionality of the law. As regards rhetoric before and after the referendum, I realized that the debate on the adoption of the law itself or not is not necessary, and the debate on the content of the law is always necessary until the last moment until the final draft of the law is adopted and the amendments will take place and any argument that is brought forward will be discussed regardless of which side it comes from, because I have several times expressed my wish that this law be adopted with the largest possible number of votes in the Croatian Assembly, and of some public attacks by HDZ leaders who have said they have nothing against the fact that some material and other rights are recognised by same-sex couples. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72415	Thank you very much. New replica, the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72416	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, unlike your colleagues who resent the MPs when they read part of the allegations they want to make in front of the microphones, you spent 20 minutes of your time reading everything that is written in the opening explanation of this law. Instead, you could have instructed us to read it on our own. I would be more sincerely interested if you had given your vision in a few minutes for the need to pass this law. Instead of that twenty-minute reading in which you counted just some arguments to pass this law, you forgot to say something else in a comparative display. Neither have all EU countries resolved this issue in the way you propose to resolve it by this law, nor are all those practices of the countries that you have instructed at all EU members. But more importantly, I would like to conclude what you did not say, and that this law is in fact a way to avoid confirming the results of a referendum that took place several months ago and that has set a constitutional definition of marriage. So this law actually wanted to avoid what gave you positive legislation in the Republic of Croatia. Just to illustrate, to keep everyone clear, this law even allows informal communities, same-sex or life partnership to be the form that can recognise citizenship to partners which does not even provide for Croatian legislation or for extramarital relations. Therefore, you should seriously consider the institutes you propose.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72417	Thank you very much. Replication response, Honored Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72418	As for my views in a few minutes on the need to pass the law I will become your press clipping for the past few months where I have made it very clear only two sentences. First, the community will not have the right to adopt children and will not be called marriage without insisting on other differences. And within that one, that one formulation we wrote this bill. As far as my opening statement is concerned, you are well aware that I have mostly referred to the reasoning of the law not because I thought that the parliamentary deputies did not read the reasoning of the law but because the Croatian public who is also following this session is familiar with the facts that are very rarely heard in this noise in the debate on this law. And as for our desire to bypass or not bypass, if this law does not comply with the Constitution, the Constitutional Court will put out of force and I have no dilemma that he would do so if what you say is true. But from their statement of November 14th, I am deeply convinced that this is not true, so this is the law we propose to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72419	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Dear colleague Mirela Holly, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72420	Dear Ministers, unlike colleagues from HDZ who advocate a conservative revolution, I believe that this law should go further in a progressive sense because it is a policy obligation to go ahead of its time and thus say the main currents in society. Because if politics hadn't gone ahead of the main currents in society in the past, the question is whether or not we would have had slavery, if we didn't have a situation where women wouldn't have the right to vote, the right to property, the right to children after all. In your opening speech, you said that this Law regulates and respects the existing state. I think that the ambition of the law must be to improve the state and that it can't be enough to respect the existing state. And that is why I think that you should consider until the second reading whether a step will be taken in advance if it has already gone in this direction and I welcome this direction because I think it is very important that we work on promoting and equating the rights of discriminatory members of society and that the members of this community are definitely members of one of the most discriminated groups in Croatian society. And that's why I think it would be necessary to consider the provisions concerning child adoption, especially when we talk about situations where one of the partners is the child's biological parent. If we're already headed in some direction, I think we should go all the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72421	The reply to the replica, Honorable Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72422	I thank Madam MPs, thank you for the praises you've made and we've been working on this bill for a long time, having a debate in a heterogeneous working group where we could hear different opinions about how the right communities we're talking about should be regulated. And this proposal, such a bill of law, is as I have said a democratic compromise. Of the 31 member states of the European Union and of the European Economic Common Area that I have highlighted, and these are except for 28 members of the European Union, Norway, Switzerland and Iceland, 12 have not been arranged in this way and of the other 19 let's say that 9 is about the way we propose, 8 as you suggest and we will be somewhere in the golden middle with this proposal. I know that the word "golden environment" in terms of human rights isn't exactly the happiest formulation, but it's a better solution than what we have now, so one day we're going to discuss probably the full equalization of one day when the other countries that I've listed are going to do. We don't have to be advocating everything, but we don't have to be on this other part either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72423	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72424	Your Honor, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, it would be foolish to say who is conservative here and who is advanced, people, homosexuals have the same in all parties, in all religions and in all countries of the world, this is our common issue of the Croatian state that we need to settle in the best possible way. It's absolutely none of my business who he's dating on Zrinjevac, who he's having sex with and in what way. I'm only interested in protecting a third party in this case, the child. Mr. Secretary's claim that no adoption of a child is correct, Mr. Minister, you at the small door allow adoption and adoption of a child. And I'm against it because I think the whole state with its repressive apparatus should defend a third party. From the moment of birth you should protect against the moment of conception but as a fig leaf in some way a woman has the right to say that's my body so we let an abortion O.K. But as soon as a child is born it is no longer anyone's property, it is its own master and the state must defend it. We don't defend him here, we should wait 18 years for a lady or a gentleman who wants to live with him to live but when he turns 18. No one has the right to adopt a child here is suggesting it. And number two, I ask Mr. Minister to put the word homophobe used in criminal law in the sense of a criminal offence. No one has a right, these are fascist rhetoric, these are violent rhetoric that a cardinal named Bozanic chooses homophobe for the year. Homophobe is a psychiatric category, homo=human, it's a psychiatric category. No one has the right to choose a lunatic of the year without being sanctioned. (Laughter) And that must be legal punishment. Those who do this are thugs, they discriminate and they are fascist rhetoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72425	Thank you very much. Please keep the level and hear opinions that we disagree with. That's nice, please. It is about very sensitive topics and each man brings his view to the public. Replication response, Honored Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72426	I'll answer two. So first, I completely reject it and I am prepared today to repeat how much the Rules of Procedure allows me in the length that the Rules of Procedure allows me, that this law does not provide for the adoption of a small door through a keyhole, through a window, through a chimney or in any kind of way of opportunity. So I want to make it clear that in the case of partner care, this is not about adopting or adopting a biological child of one of the partners, or adopting children who are not their biological offspring together. The arguments related to the inability to establish or break the relationship of the kinship that comes with adoption have already been made public and are all aware of them, especially legal professionals in this area. Unlike adoption, partner care is only when another biological parent is not known or when they both died, so when a child is gone and is not adopted by a couple but by another survivor, so the individual with whom he lived, the child lived in the community with his father or his mother, if that is the case with the court. And secondly, there is no end in the relationship with biological relatives, nor is there a relationship between relatives of partners, such as the basis of adoption. So if I were allowed to adopt a surviving partner, so if the mother of the child died and remained another woman with whom they lived, then the relationship of kinship with the mother would be interrupted, and the relationship of kinship with the other woman would be established if the court had given adoption. In the event of a partner's concern, there is no such thing, and that's why we decided to put this proposal in place, right now. And secondly, we wanted to clearly avoid the situation of writing a parent 1 and a parent 2, remaining a father and a mother, a child having a father and a mother, and so it will remain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72427	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Representative Ivan Šimunović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72428	Mr. Minister, this law that we are discussing today is an ideological document that in a rather perfiduous way plays the will of Croats and Croats expressed through a national referendum last year. It is a sad fact that the ruling would not even remember that the Croats did not directly oppose Zoran Milanovic's self-will. It is even sadder that we here are forced to spend the time and money of taxpayers on ideological debates while the economy in Croats continues to sink. This is violence against democracy and violence against the will of a people who are an employer to all of us, including members of the government, a government that isn't even trying to hide what it is doing, so it's for example. the process of making these communities the same as the marriage process, even the last name can be changed. I don't know how exactly the last name affects the stability of the emotional community, which is emphasized as one of the reasons why this law is passed. Mr. Minister, first, let's enter into the Constitution a provision that was voted upon in the referendum, and then we can discuss this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72429	Replication response, Honored Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72430	So it seems to me that this law has been in one form, it has been spoken of since 2006, when the thought of any referendum on the definition of marriage probably wasn't even with those who carried it out, which means it's not exactly true that it's motivated by this. Secondly, for the third time, the Constitutional Court said that the result of the referendum would not have any, I stress none, so I stress once again no influence on the legal regulation of the rights of extramarital and same-sex communities. As far as the right to change the last name, each person under the Personal Name Act has the right to change his last name, that is the only thing in which the procedure is spoken. And third, I don't see any reason why the state would regulate the conclusion of a life partnership with marriage. And the law says it's a solemn act, it says. A solemn act for the state may or may not be, and for one who enters a life partnership it would certainly be and would be logical to deny one minority the right to rejoice in entering a life partnership, and I do not want to suggest such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72431	Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72432	Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, President of the Croatian Parliament. Of course, this is not an ideological debate today, and I do not agree that this law causes conflict with citizens or with part of citizens in the Republic of Croatia, because this law does not endanger the rights of heterosexuals, so marriage as a classical institution is not at risk. There's a possibility of a conflict of light. However, when we speak before, a colleague mentioned and often mentioned some fascist ideology when it comes to discrimination against same-sex communities. It should be said that this is also about discrimination and communist ideology. Therefore, it is a defense of communist ideology when defending the rights of same-sex communities, so some who represent themselves as right-wing people when they attack this law actually defends communism. Look at this, establish this relationship and remember who defended all the same-sex communities from those mustaches to these communists who defended the same-sex communities. You told Mr. Minister that a compromise was reached in the rights of same-sex communities, but you all know well and you explained what this compromise is, that all citizens should enjoy the same rights. The minorities we're talking about today are being discriminated against, the law we passed in 2003 has not moved even by a millimetre. I think this law makes it possible to change, that this law is a good step and that it should persist, maybe repair some parts, and I certainly don't want to repeat myself about endangering someone else's rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72433	Thank you very much. Replication response, Honored Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72434	I thank you, Mr. Representative. In one of the previous, or debates about one law perhaps two, three weeks ago, you praised the desire for dialogue, if I recall correctly. And this law is exactly a desire for dialogue. So we want to hear different attitudes to correct the proposal, and we're going to hear those attitudes that go completely negatively on the proposal and certain arguments that I wouldn't call arguments against the provisions of the law, but against the whole concept of the law, but then let's say so. And not that we are for the rights of her or her, but we are against the law. So you can be against some provisions of the law, the law itself is exactly what we've been saying. As for who was defending and who was forbidding. I'm arguing as much as I was allowed as I as a representative of the executive authority in terms of the good practice of the Venice Commission, which is that the executive authority should not be involved in the referendum. Well, then in one form, I said it was me, that I would rather stay as far as the definition is concerned, let's say we stay in a society of countries like France, Germany, Norway and others, and not put ourselves in line with the constitutional definition of marriage with Belarus, Serbia, Montenegro regardless, so let's not say it in a negative context, but about the state of human rights others are talking about in those countries, so we can talk too. So I actually agree with what you said. Anything that can fix this text of the law in which we are, which you have said is a good step we will listen to in the desire for dialogue and once again call for dialogue, and not to the noise, and I hope that this tenacity will still bring results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72435	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Do the presidents of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament Committee wish to present their reports? I don't think so. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Social Democratic Party of Croatia's turn in the Croatian Parliament and a respected representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72436	I thank Mr. President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives and representatives of the association. Today, we have before us the Proposal for a Life Partnership Act in the first reading. We'd say at the club long awaited, long disputed, still disputed, intriguing but I think we'll all necessarily need to agree. In fact, in the first indication that the government is going to draft this law, the controversy has begun to be justified or less reasoned, scarred frequently and additionally burdened with last year's referendum on marriage, or its outcome. We all remember these discussions, but what seems to us to be extremely important in the process of passing this Act is that I will repeat what has already been said by the Minister and the very clear message of the Constitutional Court in the light of their statement of 14 November of last year, 15 days before the referendum itself, which clearly states that a possible addition of the Constitution to a provision according to which the marriage of a woman and a man must have no effect on the further development of legal frameworks, the institution of an extramarital and same-sex community, and all in accordance with the constitutional requirement that in the Republic of Croatia everyone has the right to respect, legal protection of his personal and family life, and human dignity. I think we can remember the first Law on Same-Sex Communities now passed a little long ago in 2003. And to be honest with that law, we didn't actually solve any of the problems that LGBTQ met when it came to the establishment of a family community. But we are deeply convinced that at that time it was still a step that we, as a coalition in power, showed that we began to recognize and respect the specificities and problems they face. It is like a law not, but today it only ensures the right to mutual restraint and the right to acquire common property. I have to say, personally, I don't know if anyone has ever used any of the rights under that law. But even then in 2003, we did what was realistically possible in this Croatian Parliament and beyond. I think this recollection is good, because we at the SDP club are convinced that, with this new law, the bill in a much better, more comprehensive way, we edit family communities of same-sex persons, their rights and obligations stemming from both those registered and those informal life partnerships. When we talk about the period behind the adoption of the laws of the first same-sex community and the normative solutions that have tried to break through other laws that we have passed in this period and those solutions, that is, the lack of a solution in other laws also does not provide equal rights and protection to same-sex partners regardless of anti-discrimination provisions both from our Constitution and from the Law on Gender Equality and from the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. I remember, I was here in the Parliament during that one time when we had an example. One law on patient protection, then the then Minister of Health, the health care then on our request that the provisions of this law be introduced and the rights of persons from the same sex communities shook hands and said, literally, that is, you can check in the phonogram, what they will do, they have their law there so let them follow it. So it was one relationship unfortunately compared to the problem of same-sex communities. When we talk about this law that is before us, he, this law, unlike the one before, enables the same sex partners so that life partnership is concluded in front of the state body and registration in the register of parent offices, this law includes both legal effects and the same-sex communities and those informal ones such as general rights and obligations, Community maintenance, property relations of life partners, inheritance, tax status, status in pension insurance, social care and health care, as well as employment and employment relations. Finally, this law also regulates child-related relations if they live in a family community of same-sex couples, primarily in the interests of the child. The provisions of the laws relating to childcare are, in fact, the ones causing the most controversy in the public. But what I think we all have to keep in mind all the time, the same sex communities in our society exist, exist, exist, they are our reality and reality is that their children live in them, and that for the sake of the welfare of all members of such a community, such communities, and especially children, it is necessary to regulate the relationship between parents, children and life partners who are not parents but live together and care for those children. So, what is important, this bill primarily regulates the already existing situation. I also think it should be said that as in our society, I would say this is how I would increase visibility and try to regulate legal status in relation to the same-sex parents, so, parallelly, it began and grew under quotes concerns about the welfare of children from these families. These kinds of concerns in our opinion are deeply rooted in prejudices and stereotypes of LGBT individuals. On the contrary, social sciences are kind of showing this pious concern and consider it completely unfounded. Moreover, all research shows that children whose mothers are lesbians or fathers do not differ according to their knowledge, according to their adjustment, or overall well - being from children of heterosexual parents. There is also no scientific evidence that lesbians, gays, bisexual trans-borns are in any way inappropriate for marriage or partnership or inappropriate for parents to be healthy and well - adjusted children. I would especially like to warn here of a part of the provisions of this law when it comes to the achievement of Parter's care. Therefore, we ask the Government to review again, so consider the article of the 44-49 law, which therefore speaks of the possibilities of achieving Parter's care. There's no mention of anything here that in cases where one is, therefore, a biological parent is deprived of parental care. In this regard, we think of those cases of parental withdrawal when it comes to violence, abuse of different species, potential sexual abuse and the like, and we suggest that we see whether such provisions can therefore be incorporated into these provisions from the article of the law into certain exceptional cases of therefore the achievement of Parter's care in cases where this parental care has been taken away, and of course such a decision would have to be brought to court. And otherwise, it seems important to point out that the law puts the issue of partner care in a strictly regulated domain of judicial authority with firm procedural guarantees, the position of all parties and the possibility of control in the appeal procedure to clearly express the awareness of the state government and its will to primarily protect the dignity and well-being of all children. So, in a way, one good guarantee. We as Social Democrats in all our programmes pointed out and pointed out that for us married, extramarital or same-sex communities, they represent the family community and family life. But the family is also one parenting family, no children's families, grandparents, and grandchildren. And we think it's our duty, but not just ours, but all of us to give them equal rights and create an environment where nothing will feel threatened and discriminated against. When we talk about a possible European approach to this issue, it has already been said, of course, that there is no uniform approach to EU member states when it comes to legal recognition of same-sex communities but it is important to stress that a level of European consensus on the recognition of legal status, rights and obligations as well as marriage has been reached. The European system of protection of human rights, of the heterosexual family community and of the same-sex family community is considered equally valuable, equally dignified in the form of family life. As a member of the EU, we must be aware that our existing legal framework is not fully in line with the system of protection of human rights of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and we are also witnesses, which is already said to be faced with a series of European Court of Human Rights decisions showing us that current norms governing the position of same-sex communities in our society absolutely do not meet the standards set by that court itself. And finally we agree with what the minister has pointed out several times, that this bill reflects the real social context in which Croatia is in relation to the situation of same-sex communities in our society. It is an expression of the need to regulate in a comprehensive way the position of same-sex communities, and in order to remove existing obstacles to their social equality, which all together binds us primarily and our own Constitution, certain laws that we have passed, but also European legal obligations. And what I want to say for the end, we are not having ideological discussions here today, we are not wasting the time and money of our taxpayers, but we are in fact editing these draft laws and allowing the achievement of the basic human rights of a part of those same taxpayers who, unfortunately, are still deprived of those rights. And I would say that if today and politics, as someone here, a colleague said, does not go forward enough progressively and step forward in relation to the current real social context, we in the SDP are convinced that it will still not be another 10 years, but less, that in the time ahead, we will come into a situation that, with certain improvements and adoption after the second reading, we will make it more progressive than it is right now, that is, finally in the future, we will allow every citizen to enjoy his rights in full form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72437	Thank you, too. We're going to the replicas and we're going to the interclaps. Honourable representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72438	Dear fellow Sobol, what you have particularly apostrophe and what is the essence of this law, and otherwise our commitment, and that is to respect the human person and her freedom that she will live in, in which she forms a family. Especially when you have pointed out how this bill also breaks those prejudices and myths that exactly such persons are inappropriate as partners or as raisers of children. First of all, I would especially like to point out that you are, in some way, implicating and saying that we do not bring bio-zakons or deal with bio-politicals when we are discussing man, his role, progress in society. We are aware that no law, no policy can bring man and his family happiness, but they have no right to take him away. Here's an example of this bill, if there's one flaw, then maybe it's the one that hasn't been passed before. As for breaking these myths, a whole series of prejudices is about these communities, of course they're not natural communities. Is it a natural transfusion, please? Is it a natural organ transplant? Some sort of godlike nature has nothing to do with any morality. Therefore, here your performance here is exactly in favor as you mentioned, the Law on Discrimination, therefore, in favour of eliminating every form of discrimination in our society.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72439	Honorable colleague, Igor Coleman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72440	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Sobol, I agree, of course, with everything you've said, including that amendment proposal and the addition of the law, in that sense, I suppose our club will also be willing to support it. But you mentioned a referendum, and it seemed to me a good time to actually establish that the result of the referendum has nothing to do with this law, nor does this law have anything to do with the outcome of the referendum. The question in the referendum was very clear, the definition of marriage in the Constitution, the answer was as it was, in that sense the Constitution was upgraded, amended, this law nor the union of two partners of the same sex defined as marriage or in any way entered into what happened to the Constitution and the referendum there. However, it should be borne in mind that the appeal in the argument in this law to the results of the referendum may in fact be an indication that this referendum did not only have the intention on the surface and that those of us who were in that time clearly and loudly spoke we were nevertheless right, but it does not change the fact that this law and this bill of law in any way had nothing to do with the referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72441	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72442	Thank you. Comrade Coleman, I agree with you. So first, the referendum and the result of this referendum is not, should not, should not, after all, and the Constitutional Court has made it clear, to have no implications or consequences for the adoption of this or any other, different bill proposal and, yes, you are right and we have then warned that this referendum is trying to create a completely different picture in the public, i.e. a completely different reason and the purpose of which is why this referendum is being held and, as a result of this, the spirit of something in the air, the spirit of this referendum, the spirit of what people are going out on the referendum as they wish to say. We are here in the Croatian Parliament, not to discuss and discuss whether someone's spirit appears or not, but we are here by passing the law, by the provisions of the law, to exercise the fundamental rights of all our citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72443	Dear fellow MP, Shime Lucin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72444	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I fully agree with you that this law is a significant step forward and what is very important, you said at one point that by thinking about this side of the assembly, we are not making a difference between marriage, the extramarital community, the same-sex community. However, in one small segment, I would dare say that we disagree, and that means that we disagree in that part where we differ in terms of a real social context and what it is. The minister himself and you mentioned that the law determines and regulates the existing situation, not entirely. I know gay couples who have kids, normally live in illegals. So, I'm a little disappointed, with such a good law, there should be another little step forward. This law should also allow adoption, adoption of children, because in this way it would de facto lead to the full equality of all these groups that we talked about. Because I don't think it's time for us to realize the sphere of human rights to go to war anymore, so we're making a small step, and then another step. Let's take a step and finish this story sometime. I am very sorry, and I agree with you that the time will come when we will regulate it all together and it will probably all be in one family law in a single law that regulates what is a family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72445	Replica Reply Honored Representative Gordana Sobol
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72446	So, my colleague Lucine, I would say this, I spoke for the club, I didn't speak for myself. Each of us individually and within our club may personally have attitudes that are even more progressive than what this law adopts. If we're going to talk about this about about 2.5 years ago during the campaign for parliamentary elections, and I was giving an interview to the LGBT community when I said that without any delay that I personally absolutely believe that same-sex communities, people living in same-sex communities have the right to adopt children and that I don't see any problem in that. But we as a responsible party, fellow Lucin, you know the same thing because in 2003 we together passed the Law on Same-Sex Communities must be responsible and try to pass a law that will be enforceable and that we will be able to adopt at a certain point in time in a certain social power relationship. In that sense, my debate went, and in one part, when you are discussing on behalf of the club, then perhaps you need to put personal opinions in another plan, and you might say them later in an individual debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72447	Dear fellow MP Marin Jurjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72448	Thank you. Fellow Sobol, I am wearing this rainbow-colored badge today because I want to publicly express my opposition to the totalitarian spirit that is orbiting Croatia these days so that this question is not any question, a question that touches the very core of our community, it becomes an ontological question, a question of our being, who we are and what we are, what is essentially all that makes Croatian society today. Today we are witnessing that at party gatherings, the caves are threatened by those who do not feel the same way. Some of these people, some of them, are sitting here with us in the hall. Not everyone, I don't judge anyone but those who clapped when it was mentioned with enthusiasm. Also when we talk about this issue, we talk about the right to diversity, not political, but human. And we all, if we want to be human, must admit that our human being is being denied when we make it impossible for others to express themselves in any way in any way from political to sexual. And for that reason, I think that we must make clear, publicly in the Croatian Parliament, first of all, to speak up against totalitarian consciousness, totalitarian spirit and one threat to totalitarianism as to God's patriotism and thus to say what would be desirable for this society. And let's not play with these flammable things. Don't think it'll just go away so peacefully.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72449	Thank you very much. Vice President of the House, Honorable Representative Željko Reiner, Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72450	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I, unlike some speakers, will not deal with spiritism and talk about the spirits that appear, but I would like to mention to the distinguished representative Sobol that it is not true that there is no research on the negative impact on children grown up in homosexual communities. Such research has a series, from the research of Regenerus, which has shown that such children receive social assistance more often, have a lower level of education, etc. To a newer investigation of Douglas Allen. But of course, in science we always have two sides, so there are those who haven't found any difference. So it's certainly not true that there isn't any such research, so here I am now counting a few. But what you said is not true, which is that this law is primarily guided by the child's interest. On the contrary, the problem of this law is that children stop being rights holders and become subject to the regulation of the rights of homosexuals who are neither parents nor adoptors of a child, thus becoming rights holders even in an informal life partnership, following the statement of one of the partners. Such a right to adopt a child is not possible for marriage mates either, that is clear to say. And part of the draft bill relating to children is contrary to a whole series of provisions of the Croatian Constitution, international rights that protect children's rights to their father's mother, the life of growing up with their mother and father, and violates the right of children to be equal to the law because in this bill the interests of adults are in spite of whether they are homosexual or not put into status of greater legal importance than the fundamental rights of the child and this is a major problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72451	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72452	Obviously, fellow Reiner, we read this Law in different ways. I am particularly stressed and I think that there is a right that above all else, perhaps even at the heart of the partners themselves in the first plan of the child's well-being, well-being and dignity of the child. And putting in, in fact, in some ways everything that is made, is taken with agreement, or with a decision by the competent courts, which gives real extra weight. And when we talk about different research, there are different research. Among other things, one of the studies of the American people you called at the HDZ Club when she was a professor, a American scientist here last year to visit the Parliament, who was killed by similar research from the scientific circles of America.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72453	Dear fellow MP Dujomir Marasovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72454	Your Honor, Mr. President. Fellow Sobol, you have said that the concern for children in these homosexual marriages is that this is a consequence of prejudice, such as whether, a fool, some conservatives, illiterate or semi-literate, and that social sciences have proved that these children are alive in heaven in those marriages. I answer to you, and I disagree with you that this attitude of yours is the result of your ideological Bolshevik, communist, totalitarian, totalitarian mentality with which you have not yet crossed Good and more, I'll finish. [[Employee: President: Kologa Marasović, colleague Marasović, please stay a while.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72455	Be nice, just stop, please. What you just said has nothing to do with the law, it's just labeling and disqualifying.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72456	My colleague hurt me because she told me that I had this attitude because of some prejudice. I don't have Mr. President of Prejudice, but I have made my point. And as far as social sciences are concerned, it's as valuable to you as you've claimed for decades that social sciences have proved that there is no God. That's how much it's worth to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72457	Thank you, too. There's no answer. ... And if, okay, here you go, just say the word. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We're here to make it right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72458	A colleague of Marasovic, your actual statement almost doesn't deserve to be answered in any way, but I will tell you this, therefore. I respect the attitudes of those who are concerned as to the well-being of a child but let me also have my own opinions as psychology and follow some research that perhaps you as a doctor do not respect and do not consider them worthy enough. And they show quite the opposite of the attitude you express. And regarding the labels of Bolsheviks, totalitarianism, communist heritage, and I don't know what, please, colleague Marasovic, then discuss this with the president of your party who allows his speeches and what he allows at your party's meetings is just saying that you or he wants to return us to such a totalitarian system as I believe none of us should.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72459	Honorable representative Mirela Holly, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72460	Dear fellow Sobol, it is indisputable that this government has made a whole series of positive steps towards promoting human rights, democratisation of society and raising the value of the status rights of individuals. And a very large part of the work in this regard was done by Minister Bauk and I think he deserves praise in that sense. In your speech, you referred to one conclusion that social Democrats, or social Democrats, are characterised by the fact that they are in the right and in the implementation of the policy of an equal marriage community, the extramarital community and the same-sex community. However, in the very sense of the implementation of this government's policy, it is not. And that's where I'd like to look back on what this law is ultimately based on, and that's the Family Law, which doesn't equalize extramarital communities with marriage communities, especially in this part of adoption of children. According to this proposal, however, married partners have the right to adopt children individually, but partners in the extramarital community do not have the right to adopt children, and that is, in my opinion, a lot of discrimination on people living in extramarital communities. And that is why I hope that by the second reading, the Family Law will change and that this will show the commitment of the Social Democratic Government to really have equality between these three types of communities.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72461	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72462	I thank my colleagues, Holly. Yeah, I'm literally, here's what I'm going to read. I'm going to say as Social Democrats to our programs and commitment, we've pointed out and we point out that for us, we're married, out-of-marriage, and so on, communities that represent the family community and family life. You were talking now about Family Law I wouldn't be talking today about the provisions of Family Law because we all know that behind the first reading of Family Law and what we talked about on behalf of clubs and on behalf of the SDP club, on behalf of the HNS club if I'm not mistaken, we have also asked the question of regulating the rights of extramarital communities. I can't tell you in advance what they're going to do and how they're going to write in the final draft of the law when they get here, but I hope that the motionor, or the competent ministry, will take care of it. And besides, I will now appeal to this, so I will return to the constitutional court statement that is clear, which says that a possible addition of the Constitution to a provision whereby marriage is a woman and a man's life union must have no effect on further development of the legal frameworks of the non-marriage and same-sex communities, etc., so I hope that, as you do, we will also have the opportunity to discuss when the Family Law comes on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72463	Thank you very much. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72464	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Sobol, in your debate you have returned to what we have discussed in the House before the referendum on embezzling the definition of marriage in the Constitution, and that is the definition of family and a good argument. And I want to do it again, that we often in debates, especially in political space, fall into a big trap, so that many define family as a community of men, women and children, exclusively, which is, of course, unconstitutional and therefore absolutely and immediately discriminate against us, for example, single parents living with children or children. So in this debate, we should repeat that the family is the environment where they understand and respect us and where they respect us with all our virtues and weaknesses, the environment in which we feel welcome. And as for the repeated repetitions of what the Constitutional Court has said about the referendum, so no decision should apply in any way to the legislation of the same-sex and non-marriage communities. I want to point out something that I think is necessary for all those who are going to oppose and it is fiercely passing such a law. So we have a Constitutional Court and all those who feel that this law and regulation in the law are against the constitution can, after the adoption of the Constitutional Court, turn to the Constitutional Court and I think that we will forever close and discuss whether something is possible in Croatia or not, whether something is illegal, unconstitutional because the Constitution says in Article 14 we are all equal before the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72465	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72466	My colleague Kosor, yes, at least here in the SDP, we've been pointing out what family means to us all these years, and perhaps more than some have pointed out, we talked about different types of family and that the family can't be the same marriage, and obviously that one part of the family here in the Croatian Parliament is thinking about family. Family are both communities of men and women, with children or without children, family are both a community of men and men, women and women, family and single-parent families, family and where grandparents live eventually with their grandchildren, so different types of family, family life and family community. And what I'm not just talking about right now is the Constitution or I'm talking about European standards, the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, so the family stands out everywhere as living communities of different species and, of course, I agree with you. I repeat, those who are trying to equate their family with marriage obviously have calculated a little bit to say so, so I guess they thought it was a referendum that was held last year to go in that sense, and of course it's not going.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72467	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72468	Thank you very much. Comrade Sobol, you were just talking about different kinds of family. Also in the early 20th century, Stjepan Radic said that the family is a fundamental community of society. He probably didn't think about the family you instructed today, but I don't know what he meant, he's dead, but he's pretty much assumed. But what touched me especially in your speech and made me rise up the line, that's one expression you said when it comes to third parties involved in this Life Partnership Act. Otherwise, in Austria it's called a registered partnership, I don't know, and with us it's reternized, it seems to me before there was a talk about a registered partnership, and today we have the Life Partnership Act. How and how it happened, it's hard for me to tell. So the sentence that touched me is that in these communities children are equally well-adjusted. Well-adjusted children, that's what you said literally, I listened to you very carefully. Which means well-adjusted children when we know, you yourself said that the welfare and dignity of the child determines and regulates the court. Is it normal for children and for the court to belong to children and to say in court to withdraw things that determine the welfare and dignity of a child? You know what a court is, how it is in court, how a man feels, I would say a little bit and uneasy no matter what he does, let alone a child to establish his well-being and dignity through the court. And what does well - adjusted children mean? I think it's a bit of a third party intrusion, so the kids in this legislation, one thing I'm not going to say is unnecessary, but a little thing we need to discuss today...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72469	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72470	My colleague Grubisic, I must say that I didn't quite understand what you didn't exactly understand in my presentation and what it means now for well-adjusted children. Thus, through family education and in this same - sex family, therefore, their skills, their qualities, ways of adapting to peers in society, etc., does not differ significantly or in anything compared to children coming from heterosexual families. If there is a difference somewhere I dare say it is not because these differences have been obtained, or because both parents have had something different from them, they have embodied values from heterosexuals rather than because there is resistance I would say prejudices and stereotypes in public amongst the social community compared to children, relatively, primarily to parents living in same-sex communities, and then they easily pass it on to children consciously or less consciously.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72471	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, respected colleagues Kajin and Ivan Grubisic were reported. I see dear Ivan Grubisic is coming for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72472	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with assistants, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'll tell you what happened from Copenhagen last week when one of our fellow citizens took a cab from the airport to the Copenhagen center. Then the driver asked where he came from, she said he was from Croatia, Croatia. He remained surprised. And then she told him that they were one of the countries of the former Yugoslavia, which I know, we took you into the European Community but the European Community has not yet entered your heads. It's an experience last week in Copenhagen. I think it will be a long time before the attitudes of the advanced let's say Europe enters our heads and we begin to count on it. There should be patience, go forward, not look back at some discussion and tampering. As far as this bill is concerned, on behalf of the club of independent MPs in the Assembly, we are first in favour of respecting the constitutional principle that all citizens, regardless of sex, worldview, ideology, everyone before the law, are equal. And I think the multiplication of the law will not improve this provision, but it simply needs to be applied to all citizens under the law are equal. This is the case with both this and this law, not the new laws should be passed, especially because they are marginal groups and raise it to a national level, but to respect the constitutional principles that should be mandatory for all. The very proposal of this law I, for the sake of my beliefs, will be restrained, and the other members of the Independent Club of Representatives are allowed this is our position to vote on their conscience. Unfortunately, for various reasons, there is no doubt that we suffer more from prejudice than myths, from mental circuits formed in the past than from the modern events in which we live. And we become victims of these stereotypes, we don't see things the way they are, and we could tell by the Bible they have eyes and they don't see, they don't see what's going on in front of them, they're calling for the past and the past. I'm in favour of being more modern, I stand for the freedom of every individual, but responsible freedom. And when it comes to the most intimate things in man's life, there must be some principles to be respected without touching man's freedom, but we require responsible freedom. This responsible freedom primarily in civil society concerns compliance with the positive laws that this House has passed. A further debate within our club will continue Mr Damir Cain, and I thank you and thank the Vice President, Minister and Associates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72473	Thank you. The debate is being held by Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72474	Honorable Vice President, Mr. Minister, distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament. Yes, it seems to me earlier that Mrs. Sobol quoted the Constitutional Court regulation and, in some ways, she may need to go from herself and this referendum, which is about marriage, which is behind us. The citizens have defined themselves here, marriage is a community of men and women. The constitution automatically experienced a change in that part. This Life Partnership Act is before us and only to allow me to quote Article 1, 2., 3. that this Law regulates the life partnership, the principles of the conclusion and termination of the life partnership, the procedures of the competent authorities in connection with the conclusion, termination of the life partnership, the keeping of the Life Partnership Register, and the legal effects of the life partnership, and Article 2. it is said that the life partnership and the community of family life of the same sex who have concluded their life partnership with the competent authority in accordance with the provisions of this Act, etc. As we had just spoken before in 2003, we passed the Law on Same-Sex Communities. He was published in NN 116/03. Now what are the differences between this 2003 law and this Life Partnership Act that we're dealing with here? Well, we can go in kind of a row. When we talk about the definition of a life partnership under this law, it is a community of family life of two persons of the same sex who have concluded a life partnership in front of the competent authority. In the old law or this which is still in force in the same sex communities, it is the living community of two persons of the same sex who are not married, extramarital or other same-sex communities and who lasts at least three years. Now, which are still the characteristics of this old law, let's say that I call it the same sex communities, the obligation to abstain for up to a year, the common gain of the same-sex community, that's the property that the partners acquired through work during the lifetime of the same-sex community, or that comes from that property, the partners are in equal parts of the co-owners, and then what's equally important, it's intolerance to discrimination but that's what we can say is denied for all other rights. In the law, this law which is here now before us is spoken among other things about informal life partnership, meaning the existence of an informal life partnership is proven in the same way and under the same conditions as the extramarital community, then the rights of the partner in life partnership, protection of privacy, family life, the right to mutual unity, etc., heirs first of all have their children, children over whom the partner has a life partner in equal parts and rights that both parents and children have, means partners, their children, children who are entitled to receive a gift from, with the exemption from taxes, etc. Now, where this law rests as I experience it, first of all in some European practice, it is in line with that practice in Germany, as we were always talking about the Labour Act yesterday, that it is in line with the German law. And why do I mention Germany? Well, there, the Democrats, the CDU, the CSU were in power when they wrote the Law on the Rights of Partners, and they'll probably all be the same that Chancellor Angela Merkel is the daughter of a Protestant partner who hasn't given up her own worldview or beliefs or Germany, so what's the comparison of German and this law in the shortest lines? First, neither the German law nor this law knows the same sex marriage, nor the German law knows the adoption of children, anywhere else we can say that these laws are in some way harmonised, whether it's about adopting children mates, whether it's a registered partnership, whether it's a partnership that's fully equal to marriage in all rights, whether it's an inheritance, whether it's a right to abstention. Here are the meanings, we can say freely both that German standard and what's ahead of us in some way this close one. Let me also that when we all call on Pope Franet or Pope Franjo recently to quote only some parts when the Pope was then Cardinal Bergoglio in Argentina and he sent one letter means about, as I now quote, that in the letter he defined himself absolutely against gay marriages with the invitation to maximum tolerance towards that community and as a Catholic prelate, he couldn't have otherwise and that was the attitude and almost all religious communities. He called on the Sundiers to respect those who live, feel, and think differently. We're all invited to God's love. However, the clarity of dialogue requires distinction to determine the truth that shepherds cannot keep silent and not to speak further. Deeply respecting Pope Franetta or Pope Francis, and so I quote his letter, and I think it's correct to say that the church's position is clearly one thing and the position of the secular government is something else entirely. It is clear that we are thinking, we cannot rule out the position of the church but in the secular state, the laws are passed by parliament, not by bishops. However, about one thing the government agrees with the church, there is no adoption of children. I don't think there's any need to just radicalize in a legal solution even though I can say, I can't actually assume what it can be in ten years. We must think about how the vast majority of Croatian citizens think, which does not mean that it is always right. Since he's gone and the minister has said, on several occasions, the adoption of children, I think that all the reluctances then fell out and that this law as it was offered may pass. If any law has passed a public debate, I think this one has passed. This law, to agree with those who have said that in some way it may have prompted a referendum, truth and God, this referendum has cost us, how much, about 49 million kuna, one rash, that is equivalent to three schools or three halls and what I regret, for example. Some liberal parties, and even in my Istria, did not clearly invite citizens to object, but I am glad Istria voted against it. Why? Because a new generation came out of the referendum around NGOs and all the minorities who best recognized the background of this Cyrillic referendum came out. Even that marriage referendum came out more people than local elections. Having in mind the results of that referendum in the way that we evolve, from me and beyond, that what was strange yesterday is no longer, so given the solutions, I don't know, one conservative Germany for one such bill, I think we can be in. I agree with those who here say that this law is not an ideological law, that it is in some way a law that defines certain human rights, and the emphasis, clearly, should always be on the welfare of the child, and now it is clear to talk about it, and even on the trace of the Bible that Don Grubisic mentioned, have eyes and actually do not see. And just one sentence to say when we're talking about this marriage referendum, 47 million kuna. I said earlier that it was a rash in Velika Gorica or Sisak or I don't know where, and today we had opportunities to read how the guarantees were shared by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and that only there was order, maybe we could have all the rivers arranged or regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72475	Thank you. We move on to the replicas to part of the exhibition of Ivan Grubisic. Dujomir Marasovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72476	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't know where you were, in Brussels, I don't know exactly what city you mentioned and that driver doesn't know where Croatia is, and he knows where Yugoslavia is. And like he taught us something that we should do. So as president of the academic association in my opinion, you need help to understand that this driver is a receiver, an illiterate man, an uninformed man, a man who didn't deserve to be your educator and guide to the development of Croatian society. Enough of Europe's uplifting, so you have the criterion that more is worth the opinion of an illiterate driver who will know from which country, perhaps from Yugoslavia, than the Croatian people thinks, or you yourself. It's a lot more complex than that. I do not slave to such codes, as you seem to slave.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72477	The replica corresponds to Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72478	I really don't belong to those who are buying political bribery, and this one of you said it was me, that it affected me for telling what happened because it was entirely arbitrary and I couldn't agree with it. That's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72479	Another replica, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72480	Dear Mr. Ivane Grubisic, what is most valuable, it has been pointed out and what we need to be, which should be the thought of a leader of every bill, which is to deprive ourselves of the prejudice that destroys us, which leads us back, the stereotypes of which we are all expensive victims, all victims and to turn to the present and the future. Unfortunately, often those who propagate these stereotypes, which they constantly bring out, they are not essentially manipulated, they are not, they live very modernly, they say, if they have a mistress, they will abortion abroad, if the woman is infertile, the same, and they will also stand up for one or the other. So it's the hypocrites, the Pharisees. Often with one defeated policy that was in the pits until yesterday, and today, she'd throw it into the pits, so some new pits. In fact, what we all need is to be the thought of leadership, which is to increase tolerance, the willingness to listen to arguments, respecting the needs of others and different ones, because without it we simply won't be able to communicate with developed societies that have long gone from collective manifestations of power. After all, to paraphrasise exactly what he said and quoted by Cain, Pope, who are we to judge people about how they will live their personal lives?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72481	Replication response, Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72482	I thank you for commenting and agreeing with some of my statements and views, but when it comes to prejudices, mental circuits and any kind of ideological, religious, national, there is no logic and in vain appeal to logic because it simply cannot be, these are closed systems in which logical reasons and rationality cannot be penetrated. This should take time, so what happens from that, but you should be patient and hope that time should not be pushed, that it goes, and that we may be smarter in the second reading with our proposals and through free conversation come to a better solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72483	We now have a report of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72484	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Article 238, paragraph 4, MP Ingrid Antičević is today, and some other SDP MPs are constantly imputing that someone here was talking about caves or some of us were talking about pits. I have not heard anyone speak or mention these pits, I have not experienced it, here in the Croatian Parliament, nor what is imputed through public media. So here I would expect you vice president to stand in the protection of unspeakable words I think it is neither fair nor fair to have such a mantra spinning around here today in the Croatian Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72485	No Rules of Procedure have been broken, in particular Article 238, which you are calling upon. That about caves came out in all the media, absolutely in all the media. It's one public matter. And I don't think of any MP preventing freedom of speech, especially here in the assembly. If the subject is unpleasant, it is embarrassing what I can do here, I did not make it uncomfortable, and neither did counterpart Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Turn to those who have made the matter uncomfortable for you. Discuss it with them. We're moving on with the replicas. Dear Vice President of the House Željko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72486	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So we need to remind all of us, and you, too, that the subject is the Life Partnership Act. The discussion was tolerated, and I can see that now they're going with the pits, and apparently they're trying to pull off the discussion in another direction, as a reference to taxi drivers in Copenhagen, so I think it's time for us to get back on the subject. In the end, we're all about the subject here, not about getting any points in the media somewhere. I agree with honourable representative Grubisic that this law should not have been passed, that it could be repaired and completed by the existing law, just as I agree that it is necessary to advocate equal rights and on the trail of what he otherwise advocates only expected that he would point out not some other things in this law. For example, the applicant does not refer anywhere to the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence as such. Such phenomena cannot be in the life partnership communities. However, the word violence is not mentioned throughout the proposal at all, and according to the current proposal, life partnership communities cannot provide protection against domestic violence. Let's say that's one serious failure of this proposal, so I expected it to be referred to, but there it is. I guess we're more interested in stories about caves and taxi drivers in Copenhagen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72487	Here's your call to get back on the subject, and you start and you end up with pits. Your colleague Ivan Grubisic will answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72488	I didn't fully understand the replica of the esteemed Reiner, so I would ask him to repeat it to me because Caine isn't here. If he can.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72489	He can't tell you again because he said it all in his replica. The question of how understandable she was or not is another matter. A new replica of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72490	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grubisic you said your eyes have, and they don't see, ears have, and they don't hear, but here I am talking about this difficult economic situation when we're discussing the Life Partnership Act I hear, maybe you don't hear those whistles of HZ Carg workers coming to protest here in front of Mark's square. And you said in your address that the thought of leading every law equal to what I realized, but you forgot that it was not necessary to adopt this Life Partnership Act because in 2003, the Croatian Parliament passed the Law on Same-Sex Communities. And of course all of us here are aware that there are different sexual orientations in us and around us, and there is no slowness. If it was to help these people with their inheritance, hospital visits, property in any other way could result in amendments and additions to that law, not in the proposal for a new Life Partnership Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72491	The replica corresponds to the respected Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72492	I have expressed my position that I will be abstention in voting on this law. It means it's about one of my personal attitudes, but I leave it to other members of the Independent Club to vote on their conscience. If the fundamental constitutional principle is respected that all citizens are equal before the law then the multiplication of the law does not solve problems but complicates them, and that is not good, I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72493	They're following up on Damir Cain's exposure. Shime Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72494	Thank you very much. You mentioned on several occasions the 2003 law and compared it to this law that we are discussing today, not just you, but a lot of colleagues in conversion and replicas. I think it should be open to say that the 2003 law doesn't solve anything. The success of this law alone is that it indicated the existence of a problem and confessed to some community, but that law does not solve itself and cannot be solved by anything and I don't think those two laws should be compared. That was the reason I thought then I was the only one in the government that I was sitting in the government and voting against this law. From the opposition situation, I tried to propose with some colleagues a law that normally did not pass that would solve at least some of these problems and that situation. And it would already be good if we were to appeal to the practice of European countries, you compared this law with German, should be open and honest and say that the German law still goes one step further. So the German law allows the adoption of a partner child. I would like us to compare this law with Belgium, Denmark, France, Iceland, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, those countries that have the same sex marriage and have solved all their problems. And then let's say that Mr. Vice President Reiner would have no problem mentioning that something in this law is not mentioned because it would be the same thing as marriage, it would be a same-sex partnership that we're talking about right now, and it seems to me and I'm back to it that maybe we should use it to talk more seriously about this law and take this step further, or to discuss the possibility of adopting children.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72495	New replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72496	Thank you. I see colleague Cain that you have some issues especially regarding parenting in this Law. I'll remind you when it comes to children that this law wide opens doors for example surrogate parenting. Surrogat parenting is one disgusting way to use another man, to humiliate and pay for money where another, using the fact that another female person is poor and lives in another country, two men will hire that woman for a certain amount of money for a period of time so that they can have a child in their community. Well, it's a simple and difficult violation of the human rights of another person that we and the legislator have practically recognized in the opening speech as something that's happening in the world. Well, there's a lot going on in the world. There is also cannibalism and drugs and everything in the world, however, this does not mean that we will therefore implement it in our legislation and in our social tradition because it is happening in the world. Therefore, what you mentioned about children, not this Law opens up a space for children, certainly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72497	Next replica Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72498	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Cain mentioned, he actually said that this law is not ideological, and that's true, and it shouldn't be at all. In fact, all of us at some point in our lives or whenever we came into a situation that we had to take a stand on the rights of homosexuals. Well, we here today, that is, through our discussions today, show that attitude, because it's reality, they're there. However, I believe that this problem should be approached, i.e. to act on a very simple, simple principle, neither ideological nor political, nor simply human. We have to treat them humanly. There was also talk of adopting children and having different approaches. However, as long as we are so homophobic, as long as we can think about the parents of such children, I think there really is a danger, a danger of prejudice for children in such cases to suffer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72499	The last replica of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72500	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Cain talked a lot about child protection. I certainly agree that children and child protection should certainly be given priority. But what I would also like to point out because of the current debate as a possible addition to my colleague Cain that when we talk about child protection, we are not talking about protecting children from same-sex partners, or from same-sex parents, but about protecting children from a society that is too quick to condemn rather than try to understand. Dear colleagues and colleagues, many of the things we do with this law we take for granted. We're not ready to understand, we're only willing to condemn, we're willing to say that something isn't natural, but I don't think anyone gives us the right to especially get involved in how someone's going to live their private life. The more people who will one day consume this Law, the more they have no choice. So same-sex, sexual orientation is not a matter of choice as heterosexual. And so I appeal to you, let's try to understand first of all. If you want it, it's one human value, and it's also Christian if we're going to talk in such frames. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72501	The word has now been made by the Minister of Management, the Honorable Arsen Bauk, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72502	Mr. Vice President, I answered my word for something I heard in a replica, which is about to allow children to trade in this way. This is far the most irresponsible of all objections addressed to the law. It is based on a serious prejudice towards gay people and over-petuates society's impatience and hatred. First of all, it should be noted that the possibility of going to poorer countries to buy in alleged signs of "children" through surrogate motherhood is long available to those who wish to have children and cannot achieve this by biological means or adoption. For example. Heterosexual couples who can't even start with an in vitro method can go to some Ukraine right now and buy surrogate services there. Moreover, did we not have a chance to follow through the media a year ago a story about a Croatian agency that took money from Croatian couples to mediate, without or with their knowledge in an African state, the alleged signs of "buying children" from an orphanage. If such a thing is already possible today, it should be asked out loudly what motives it is now withdrawing claims that this law will lead to the defacto legalisation of the purchase of children abroad and ignore that this possibility has long existed and that it is banned by the criminal legal order of the Republic of Croatia as well as international criminal law simply indicates that those who make such claims promote prejudice that gay persons are corrupt and immoral. This is a form of spread of intolerance, intolerance and hatred such as the European Parliament banned by a vast majority of MPs on the left and right of the political spectrum a few days ago by voting so-called. Lunacek reports. The fact of life is that people who cannot have children in large numbers do not go to foreign countries and do not buy children for a very simple reason because such practice is not only illegal and punishable but extremely morally problematic. Such a position is shared by people regardless of their sexual orientation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72503	Drazen Djurovic reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72504	Thank you. There is a basic misunderstanding of concepts in this case, which is a lack of understanding of the concept of infertility. The concept of infertility has never been recognized as a person's problem before in medical practice. So there was no infertile person. An infertile person is created by the force of this ideology that you represent here. There's a problem with infertile couples, so a couple could have been infertile, not a person. A person becomes infertile, of course, at that moment if he is in a relationship that cannot even be fruitful. But the issue of infertility has always been a question of infertility. Since infertility has been treated by a couple, it has always been a couple, it has never been a person because you can't determine if one person in a couple with another person of another sex can... this couple can be fruitful, and in combination with one person and some other can be infertile. So that's why this twisting thesis in general and then creating new structures about an infertile person is actually going to track down this ideology that stands in the background and this legal proposal that you put out here. So infertility was and remained a matter of money. A couple are infertile and a couple are treated for infertility, not persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72505	Replication response, Minister Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72506	Mr. Representative, I have made it very clear, what is morally problematic and punishable and what is happening is morally problematic today, it is punishable today, and it is morally problematic and punishable for both heterosexual and homosexual persons. And what you're saying has nothing to do with this law, except to point out that it promotes prejudice and that you managed to provoke me to put this sign on that before you have prejudice towards these different people, you have to have prejudice towards me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72507	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Honorable Vice President of the House Željko Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72508	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would ask one principle question, why does the government even insist on adopting this law at a time when Croatia has far greater problems due to an extremely bad economic situation, all kinds of crises, enormous unemployment and growing poverty that equally affects all citizens, whether they are homosexual or heterosexual orientations. We hear just outside the whistles of HZ-Carg workers who will lose 800 more jobs and increase the number of nearly 400,000 unemployed who have never been in Croatia, and here we are discussing even anything else than this law. I see the replicas are already rising, and I haven't even started talking about this law, it's also very interesting. It's interesting that now this law is passed, and more than that, it's actually about a law that concerns a very small number of people. According to the census, there are only 70 such couples, or 140. However, regardless of what is really a very small number of people, and even if there are several times more in real life, but for any reason they have not decided to publish their relations, if the Government holds that at this social and economic moment it is more important than anything else to protect their rights or give them some rights that they have not had so far, then it is a profoundly disappointing way of trying to achieve this bill. First of all, I would like to make it very clear that HDZ is in no way against better regulation of the relationship between homosexuals living in a community where the bill actually refers, although it is probably not called because of the two-facedness of the promoter, but it should then be done in an appropriate manner. First of all, I would like to say that the proposal for this law makes the express will of the people expressed in a recent referendum and actually enables marriages to be made for the same sex only under a different name, called life partnership. This is a deeply threatened rule of law in Croatia. In a referendum of colleagues and colleagues, the people’s will is not expressed only that different forms of community than that of a woman and a man’s life community should not be called marriage, but that such communities do not have and cannot have a real mark and complete content of marriage. In order to be able to make marriage possible only under a different name, several articles of the bill which states that for a particular institute, I quote: "adequately apply the provisions of a special law governing family relations", or refer to a number of articles of the Family Law relating to marriage and marital relations, and relate to the same-sex partners in an identical way, not just under the name of marriage. However, although it is claimed that the life partnership is a community of family life, there is a need to raise the question of why such a community is two persons referred to in Article 2 of the proposal of a family or a community when, following this proposal, the law does not require a common residence or residence. Such life partners don't have to have the same household, they don't have to live in the community at all, but they can live permanently for themselves, for example, hundreds of miles away. If it was indeed intended to affirm the Institute of Life Partnership of two homosexuals, then it is also completely unclear why it is immediately certified by the Institute of Informal Life Partnership in Article 3. So all of a sudden we have the effects of the same-sex partnership, which are arrogantly ignoring the will of Croatian voters expressed in the referendum practically fully equal to marriage and not only for registered same-sex partners, but also for those living in the informal community, whatever that means, because this is not defined in the proposal. We find it particularly unacceptable that this bill does not explicitly prohibit the adoption of children by same-sex communities, although members of the government have clearly and repeatedly made a public promise to prohibit it in this law. Instead, this bill invents new institutes that are actually adoption not only are called but are called parental care, i.e. partner care, which give content all the rights of adoptors, stepmoms and stepdads other than formal enrolment in the child's queen born. This simply deceives the public because adoption is introduced in reality to a small door, but even by other criteria than any other person who wants to adopt a child, despite the minister's attempts to convince the public otherwise said it wasn't so. It is particularly unacceptable that the Institute of Unformal Life Partnership actually discriminates deeply against spouses and especially non-marriage partners because, following this law, a simple statement by one life partner may give the other partner the right to adopt a child of an informal life partner, which is not possible for marriage mates, let alone heterosexual persons in an extramarital community. With his last intervention, Minister Bauk drew attention to surrogate motherhood by ignoring a much more dangerous institute in this law that really opens the door to human trafficking, I dare even say sex slavery and pedophilia. This is obvious from the motion that, as a condition for the recognition of civil communities concluded abroad, it sets minimum conditions in accordance with Croatian law such as adulthood. So, if such a law is adopted, children under 18 will be allowed to be imported if they are somewhere in a country where they are allowed to enter a life partnership with their partner. I'd call him an importer from Croatia. Even the Ministry of the Interior warned the promoter of this serious failure, but apparently the promoter decided to ignore it. This law opens up and imposes a serious question, which calls for a conscience, that is, the limitations of religious and other freedoms of those who will have to implement it, and it conflicts with their beliefs. The bill sets out various official persons such as notebooks, social workers, parents, judges who, because of their possible religious and secular attitudes, do not accept it in very difficult terms, not to say the unexplainable situation. Which is with parents and social workers who, for their beliefs, do not want to make such, in fact, same-sex marriages that are simply called different. What about judges who don't want to break them up? The right to object is an expression of the right to freedom of conscience guaranteed by a number of documents from the United Nations General Declaration of Human Rights to the United Nations Convention on the protection of the rights of migrant workers and members of their families. We ask the promoter if he really intends to insist on the adoption of this law, which we want to clearly oppose, that at least recognises the right of conscience to parents, social workers and judges, in the same way that it is recognised by authorised representatives, soldiers, health and health care professionals in artificial insemination, doctors, dentists, nurses in accordance with the Law on Medical Supported Insemination, the Law on Medicine and the Law on Medical Insemination, the Law on Medical Supported Insemination, the Law on Medical Medicine and the Law on Suppression, and the structural codes guarantee him in Croatia and lawyers, recipients and pharmacists. We need to draw attention to the fact that the bill will create great legal uncertainty and open up a lot of legal ambiguities as matter enters twenty other laws of which some organic laws are. So this law, for example, will make it very clear to everyone in reality that it will not be implemented. Since this Law is not a lex specialis for the prohibition of discrimination, nor for mandatory relations, nor for property and other real rights, nor for copyright and similar rights, nor for inheritance, nor for income tax, nor for property tax, nor for life insurance, nor for health insurance, nor for asylum, nor for foreigners, nor for social care, nor for work, nor for residence, nor for Croatian citizenship. It was pointless in the proposal of this Law to incorporate all these provisions, and yet they are incorporated. In real life, it is clear and clear that the reference of various services that will meet certain issues regulated by this Law, which are otherwise regulated in a series of laws on which these officials base their daily work, will simply not be able to apply the provisions of this law directly. So, instead of really better protecting the rights of homosexual orientations living in permanent communities, there is an assumption that by ruling for them, they have done something and fought despite the allegedly terribly conservative public and allegedly backward opposition, and in real life, because of their non-compliance with a number of other laws, nothing is actually going to change because this law will be completely inadmissible. That this is best shown by the fact that there are no criminal provisions or infringements in any particular section, or in a separate chapter, but even in the form of individual articles which are unremembered for the bill. This suggests either that the applicant did not care at all about the real implementation of the law, or that the provisions of the law are inconclusive and inadmissible and that their violation is not worth any punishment. If he felt otherwise, he would probably have proposed criminal or criminal provisions. It is also one of the best evidence that this Law is not written as a law but as a kind of declaration or magma of the map of the libertatum of homosexuals to live in communities, but that does not actually provide them with any real mechanisms. If this isn't the Law on the Prevention and Prohibition of Discrimination, and we already have such a law, then it's not why it's supposed to protect the persons of the same-sex sexual orientation at all. If their rights were better protected, why no amendments were simply proposed and complemented by the existing Law on the same-sex communities and regulated by the rights of members of those communities. We therefore hold that no new law should have been passed at all, which, if passed as proposed, would cause not only an incredible amount of almost unresolved legal problems and controversy. However, it will not benefit individuals of homosexual orientation or provide some greater rights to their communities. This law is simply incorrigible or at least very, very difficult to fix. We therefore propose to withdraw from the procedure and to better define the existing Law on the same-sex communities by amending and supplementing the existing Law on the same-sex communities, so that, in a certain sense, the rights of members of such communities should be increased so far. In addition, it should be made clear that the promoter has not met the public at all with the real effects and possible achievements of this Law, nor with the results of such social trials in some other countries, but rather with the media campaign, continues to create one distorted picture in the public, noting only what the rulings are, but also the promoter believes that most citizens are not controversial and not even hiding a series of controversial facts and bad experiences. In doing so, a false image is being created so that the possible non-acceptance of this unsuspectingly written and nomotechnically nakaradish law of a group of citizens may be denied some rights which are simply not true because they are unfortunately not given anything but rather a declaration which will be completely inadmissible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72509	We move on to the replicas that are 12. First Shime Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72510	Thank you very much. My colleague Reiner, as opposed to you, when I replicated, I sat in the assembly and was enough for your first sentence that you did not understand why the government was proposing this law, to explain it to you, but in the third sentence you said whether something was going to speculate on the two-facedness of the promoter, so I'm going to give it up. Who's two-faced when we're on the subject of homosexuality, homosexuals and marriages, or you community, or you adopt gay couples' children about it would be given a long and long talk. Let me remind you of what you were saying in 2003 about the law you are now calling upon, and not to say and not to remind you of what you were talking about in 2004, 2005 about monsters, unnatural behavior, etc., etc. It's interesting that now it turns out that you're in favour of gay rights. Here's one proposal, make a second reading of the bill as you in the HDZ see that thing to be fixed. I assure you that we will make every effort to ensure that this variant of yours passes because I hold no matter what it says in some piece of paper that talks and talks about gay rights, you will be against it. What you're going to talk about, that's one thing to talk about. That's why I stood up as the minister said, this is a compromise solution. That is why I have also advocated that in this law the right to adopt children because any compromise solution, any whole solution, or if you want someone half-way, you will be against, quite understandable and it is quite clear to me and I respect it and respect it, but don't tell us from the speaker what you've been talking about and don't talk about the two-facedness of the promoter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72511	Replication response, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72512	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, first of all, you probably got a little confused, and I didn't say anything in 2003 because I wasn't sitting here or sitting in 2004, or in 2008, and you obviously made a mistake. But it's very interesting that you're now suggesting to me that I stand for someone's rights, because it's some kind of crime if I'm advocating for someone's rights, is that something bad? You probably expected me to attack something terrible now I don't know the right person of the same-sex orientation and now that I haven't done it, you're very disappointed. But what I have to answer you, you're calling for us to make a bill, first, it's similar to calling the prime minister, your boss who says, we're not a failure, but give you suggestions on how to be successful, so it's not an opposition job to do your job, you're in power now and you said you have all the power, that you can do anything, you put your people everywhere, so do your job if you know it, if you don't know we'll surely because we'll come to power to make a better law than this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72513	Second replica, the esteemed Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72514	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Reiner, when you talk about the crisis, the crisis must never be an excuse for ignoring human rights. Human rights are a civilization, historical, cultural property of Croatia, Croatia, Croatia, the modern Republic of Croatia, and I think that should be very persistent. Especially when protecting human rights doesn't cost us anything and the people whose rights we protect mean a lot to them. You're saying this law won't help people with same-sex orientation but it did ask them if it would help them. We have, we have had a dialogue on a number of parliamentary committees where we have heard their opinion and where we know how many problems, how many problems they have and how many problems they have faced by facing the problems left by this very missing law of 2003, which I will discuss a little bit more in my individual debate. When you talk about a referendum, I read between the lines between what you said that you admit that this was not a referendum on the definition of marriage but a referendum against a part of the Republic of Croatia. In my view, this is unacceptable, the more the marriage was never threatened, as such as an institution, which we have clearly said and the marriage is defined in Article five of the current law, i.e. it will be in Article 14 or 15 of the future law and is defined as a legally regulated community of women and men. And in the end you say how many people there are, so there's not a lot of them, they don't need any help. Talmud says whoever saves one life saved the whole world. If we help one man, one couple, this law is worth it, but we're gonna help a lot more of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72515	Replication response, Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72516	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Your Honor, you've been able to say one whole series of contradictions in this matter in two minutes. First you attacked me for standing up for someone's rights, then you said you were quoting Talmud, and I agree with that, but I didn't say it shouldn't be dealt with. I just said that for sure and that's what I stand for at this point there are incomparably bigger problems for all citizens were those homosexual, heterosexual orientations when they run out of work, when they have nothing to live on, and that's the real problem of all Croatian citizens unrelated to their sexual orientation and you can't unfortunately challenge it and we know why it came about. What should also be made very clear is that in no case has anyone said that the referendum said something incriminating against someone, that I personally myself had repeatedly, and even after the outcome of the referendum said exactly the opposite, that he should not and should not be and should not be so designed to be directed against someone. We can never be, we can't be against someone, we can only be for something, but unfortunately you don't understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72517	A new replica, respected Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72518	Thank you very much. As a whole, I don't agree with all the things you put out on behalf of the HDZ, and I'm just going to list some things that I think should be highlighted. One is that this law, the bill of law, is the play of a referendum, which is simply not true by decision, or by the letter of the Constitutional Court. Second, your family question, what is it? I wouldn't be so pretentious and I would never dare decide what a family is, I think it's a matter of personal feeling. Furthermore, you said that adoption, through this law, is going through the adoption of children which is simply not true and it is discriminatory in this law because people, homosexuals, homosexual couples, have no right to adopt children through this law, I think it is discriminatory. Then you said that these are discriminated against by mates, outsiders and the marriage community, which is also not true, and you said that this law should apply to a conscience, which means that, for example, out of the objection of conscience, you might not marry heterosexual persons because they feel that something bothers them or those with blond hair, black hair, blue eyes or black eyes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72519	Replication response, Honored Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72520	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I didn't quite understand, you said, you counted a whole series of things that you disagree with, I can accept that you disagree, I didn't even mention my family perception or anyone else's family perception as a family. Of course we can discuss it or not. But you mentioned the children. Look, turning children into objects of order, and homosexuals into rightsholders in relation to children is quite certainly a constitutionally unacceptable. This law is not a lex specialis for the rights of a child, a child is not a thing but a human being, and this law simply cannot and cannot norm the rights of a child. Therefore, if this approach, and I have criticized it extensively because it is intruding into a whole series of other laws and other rights, if, in some ways, the principle had begun to be accepted and because this proposal was dangerously precedentd, then similar legislation could also be sought by all other vulnerable groups in society. They have their own problems, too. Children, students, disabled people, ethnic minorities, then there would be no obstacle to a similar law on their rights and obligations in one place, instead of throwing it into 20 laws, the demands of single parents, craftsmen, farmers and they are threatened by various groups. Farmers at this time are enormously vulnerable groups, 10 thousand dairy farms are closed, people barely live, you will not dispute that single parents are not in any way vulnerable groups, therefore my complaint was the concept by which he tried to solve everything for one group in one law, and that is impossible because parts are solved in at least 20 other laws of which some are organic. And it's wrong in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72521	New replica of the esteemed Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72522	Comrade Reiner, you asked what was the benefit and effects of this law, or you said that this law would not have real mechanisms. Let me read you a mail that I got. He says I'm Leah, and I've been living with Marina for nine years. We have one child, and we want the state to finally recognize us as a family and give us legal protection. Everything works quite well until we both are healthy and strong to face the fact that, although both of us equally as parents care about the child, the system does not recognize us. The state does not protect us as a family because in a family one member is unemployed and they live on an existential edge, they have the right to some forms of social assistance, in the form of a child's allowance, a release from some kindergarten or school, we do not have the right to do so because we are not being guided as a family. The system as such did not provide us with anything that provides other families, financial security, health insurance, or property security. If something had happened to me, my apartment, my child, my dogs, all of it would have ended legally with my parents, my partner would have stayed on the street. If I lost my job, our child couldn't be medically secured through Marines. What if, God forbid, I got sick or died, scared and imagined. We've lived through enough of such fears when the child was little, from mandule surgery to some of my illnesses, to the daily question of what would be if. And all these situations are clear, in any case, our family is falling apart and everything depends on the well-being of all the participants and ourselves. It's not fair, it's not equal and it's not family. We are not legally in an equal relationship, and it is not good for any family, and it is important to have a child safe and to know that both parents can always be seen and that at least one of them will always take care of him in case something happens to the other. That's why the Life Partnership Act is very important to us, at least in the form in which it is proposed and I ask you to support it because that way you will provide us with such security. That's why it needs the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72523	Replication response, Vice President Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72524	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs, of course people have real life problems and, of course, it is our goal and that we should all be the goal of trying to remove these problems, facilitate life, etc. But what I have claimed that unfortunately this law will not do, he is a declaration, he is not the law he does not guarantee to carry out what is good that I believe the inspirers of this law wanted to make. But as inconsistencies as this law is inconsistencies, let me give you another example, as a condition for the conclusion of a life partnership, he does not, for example, require that persons entering that community should state that they are also sexual orientations, so they are either not homosexuals and lesbians, and that is acceptable because that would be an incursion likely in their human rights. However, this community should, in principle, be open to all regardless of sexual orientation. Why, then, is this Article 10 inadmissible to people who are not homosexual orientations? Why does such a community, in line with what most public debate participants have proposed, make it impossible for people of different sexes? In fact, it is deeply discriminatory for all those who might want to enter such a community, for example, a blood relative in a flat line or in that slope until the 4th degree. I want to remind you what discrimination is? That's when you deny someone the same rights that others have and for no good reason or reason. Since the definition of this bill is not about communities of sexual generality, then there is no danger of incest or reason for the ban on, say, two single sisters who have lived together for years, they have grown old and want to enjoy a series of favourable arrangements that this law allows not to enter into a life partnership. Yet the proposal of this law makes it impossible for them and thus discriminates against them and that's what I said. He unfortunately introduces new discrimination, and he does not solve the problems of those for whom he was written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72525	The replica stands up and respects Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72526	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Vice President Reiner, I'm going to start not to be warned, I don't agree with you. I'll tell you why. You have said here that this law is not a solution to the protection of certain rights which should be protected by forgetting that our colleagues from the SDP boasted repeatedly that it was those who passed and proposed the law in 2003. The law adopted in 2003 on same-sex communities under the basis of this law has been passed without official confirmation of the existence of any community. So the result of that law is zero. Then we heard from these same colleagues that they were aware of the problems of passing those laws, but that at least that indicated certain problems that exist in society. And if you look at the context of their strategy that this is also a law that will indicate the problems that exist in society, then it is necessary. The fact that he is nomotechnically bad, that he opens up other possible discrimination against certain groups does not worry them. So for an illustration of what I'm talking about, I'm going to repeat that, let's say, life partnership is the community that made up persons of a life partner relationship or that we don't ever come to the rights that these laws give to each other, and some rights are given that don't even be given to extramarital communities. So when the law was already being passed, at least those institutes provided by law should be made clear and applicable in real life.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72527	The reply to the replica of Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72528	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, your Honorable representative, Mlakar, is exactly what you said, unfortunately, the 2003 law of whatever it was that remained a dead letter on paper and those who brought it didn't even bother to implement it, nor did it have any effect. Now a similar law is passed or wanted to be passed, the law which is here I have set a series of examples that will not make him enforceable and then, of course, the next government that will be led by the HDZ will find themselves in a situation that will have to answer questions probably of the same opposition why this law does not solve the rights of the same-sex orientation and will not solve them and unfortunately nothing will help them. As much as there's a contradiction, let me give you another example. This law is in direct conflict with, for example, the uterus Act, which, following its amendment to Article 9a, established that the Institute of Life Partnership is not closed to persons of different sex because it is no longer a biological gift but a result of a personal statement. And now, according to this, life partnership can, of course, bring together people of different sex if one of them is a transsexual or in a life partnership, they can be people of different sex and not just the same sex. If one of them changes sex during their life partnership according to a birth certificate. Here's an example of the most grandest that not one institute will be completely inconclusive because we have two laws that speak the opposite, and apparently all of this in order to protect one vulnerable group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72529	The Republic will now be presented by the respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72530	Dear counterpart Reiner, all of your discussions in the Croatian Parliament, or almost everything, have been high-level, this day has surprised me. I was surprised by the sentence when you went out for a minute, I don't know who you told, you don't understand, it's the easiest thing to say, and it's the most obvious attack when there's no argument missing. You're very contradictory in your presentation. First you said it was a clean declaration, and then you said it was a very dangerous law, that's your word. How can it be something that's just a dead letter on paper? Second thing, you were talking about the 2003 law that left a dead letter on paper. My God, who ruled for eight years after 2003? A dead letter on paper needs to be removed from the legislation, simply abolished that law, brought a new one, declared bad. So for 8 years there was this law, for 8 years the law was a dead letter on paper, as if the government behind this government had no obligation to what this government had agreed, passed, etc. It's very contradictory, you said the will of citizens is being played by this law which voted to introduce the concept of marriage into the Constitution. Disrespecting the will of the people is absolutely certain that this law does not happen. You've actually expressed disrespect for the Constitutional Court. Because the Constitutional Court said before the results were known that nothing should be questioned by the rights of the same-sex communities. You say today, today you say that same-sex communities are almost equal to marriage. What's the problem? So... Over, over. [[Time. There's a problem in time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72531	Time's up. The reply to the replica, the esteemed Vice President, Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72532	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Well, you've said a lot of things since 2003 to this day, as far as I can count, it's been a little bit more. Until you quoted what I said was dangerous. Well, it's dangerous if you have an institute that allows you to go contrary to what our law requires, which is adulthood so that children under 18 can be introduced if they are anywhere in the world in any country and there are countries different from absolutely different legislations who have concluded a life partnership with their partner from Croatia, it's dangerous for me, it's very dangerous, I don't know if it's dangerous for you, it's potentially very dangerous for me. The abuse is possible, the import of sex slavery is possible, paedophilia is possible, anything is possible, and it's dangerous. And what I'm basically saying and what I'm going back to and what's the basic problem of this law and I'm standing here is that it's one declaration. I've made it very clear that he doesn't have any criminal provisions. Therefore, what kind of law is it that if you knowingly violate it, you do not directly punish anyone. What if someone is contesting the rights of such a community? What if someone is endangering the rights of such a community and there's no way that they're going to be able to communicate on that punishment? Well, then that's nonsense, it's not giving the right to a vulnerable group, but it's one declaration that just wants to get the eyes of that particular group, it wants to get a little more votes in the election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72533	The next replica honours Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72534	Yeah, well, your colleague's bothering you because it's a good law. You're saying that this government is two-faced and that it proposes a law like this. So it's right out of duplicity. And that in this way the will of the citizens of the day is played in a referendum that led to a change in the Constitution by defining marriage or by raising the definition of marriage to the constitutional level. As you remember and remember well because you were in it, you supported that action where it was said we are not against the other, we are for marriage to be a community of men and women. And what makes you see that a heterosexual community and recognition of the right of a heterosexual community to a life partnership would be a threat to marriage? Do you think they're threatening marriage? However, this is one of the prejudices that the University of Portland has also dealt with with with by researching "Homosexual marriage and perceived marriage on heterosexual marriage."where the data of this research are very simple. There is no influence of the homosexual community on the heterosexual community that it would endanger them. Every fourth marriage in Croatia divorces with a tendency to increase the number. Heterosexual marriage does not endanger the homosexual community, is threatened individually by a man and a woman. I guess that's what I mean to you. Or what kind of marriage and security would be in that marriage, what that marriage would be like if it were threatened by a heterosexual community. You're also saying that basically in an implicit way, in such a quiet way and acknowledges the adoption of children, that is, the life of children in such communities. So how much care for these children and often their own parents often run away from their own children. That doesn't concern you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72535	Time. The reply to the replica is the esteemed Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72536	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, we're not talking about family life problems right now. I agree with you that, unfortunately, he has very big problems. I've mentioned the problem of domestic violence that obviously doesn't concern you that it's not embedded here in the bill. I'm aware that unfortunately she has parents who don't care about their children. Is this a guarantee that homosexual parents will take care of their children? It's not like he didn't even guarantee that he was going to take care of his children in marriage, but we don't talk about it at all. We are talking about whether this law protects certain rights, gives some rights or does not give them and does not protect them, but represents only one floscule and a declaration that will be completely invaluable in life. And it's actually amazing to me that in the end it turns out that all the time I'm defending the rights of that group and you who are standing up for it all the time are challenging it. It's completely incomprehensible to me. Absolutely incomprehensible. And when we talk about family life, so look at, for example, this proposal has no explanation at all, it is not clear why the life partnership in the article 2 of the family life community and then informal life partnership is not a community of family life but a community of life without any reason, without details of what it is then etc.. It's just a fraction of the gaps made in this law again. And that is why we hold that he is not good and that he does nothing to help anyone without causing enormous legal uncertainty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72537	Next replica, respected Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72538	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear academic Rainer, while we're talking about the Life Partnership Act, families from flooded areas of reading have been given increased accounts for groundwater. Now imagine that absurdity and paradox, and the paradox is this law that you were talking about. And you said that the institute of life partnership is being introduced, that through the law a number of institutions of family law and procedures are being used, in fact, regarding marriage and marital relations, and that is really visible from these institutes through the conclusion of a life partnership in front of a parent, giving consent to a life partnership, claims to determine the existence or absence of a life partnership, then on a concluded life partnership, delivery to competent parent offices, and so on, change of last name. What it is, it's a marriage, it's just called a life partnership. But then you said that the matter of this law gets in the way of 20 other laws and me, and you're surprised that the proposer of this law is actually the Ministry of Administration, and it was supposed to be the Ministry of Justice, precisely because of a series of doubts that you were talking about. And one of the most problematic issues is the fact that, in addition to all the rights that are protected by this law, the right to children, instead of children's rights, and I stress that to you, instead of children's rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72539	The replica corresponds to Vice President Željko Reiner's home.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72540	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Reverend Babic, I've actually said on several occasions that, of course, children can't be and aren't the subject of order, and neither is this law actually a law that can and can regulate children's rights, and that's why it's all termological if you want to miss. That notion of partner care, it's a termological failure because from the very idea, it would be that a partner actually takes care of a partner if you say partner care, not child care. This is, of course, legally impossible because children and custody of them are not at all the subject of the regulation of this law. So there's a whole series of illogicalities. However, it is good that you mentioned the question of marriage and marital relations and this law. On the one hand, he almost got even with marriage, but interesting on the other hand some things that I think are very important are not mentioned at all. For example, if you look at the Family Law, he says that marriage mates owe each other the loyalty, mutually helping each other, respecting one another, maintaining harmonious marital and family relations. However, life partners are not obliged, neither to be faithful, nor to respect one another, nor to maintain coherent partnership and family relations, etc. How if they don't maintain family relationships are even a community of family life? So there's a lot of illogicalness to what I was saying you could have such a community and live hundreds of miles away. These are all the fatal failures of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72541	Replica, dear Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72542	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Rainer, you were talking about the appeal of conscience, so you mentioned that potentially the notebooks, the parents, the judges, that they could come into that position and that they didn't have the opportunity to appeal to their conscience, but you didn't say whether those listed would be stigmatized, or whether they would be characterized by those who spread intolerance, intolerance, homophobia, which are morally problematic. If you know that by the time the referendum went through that the first statements were some high officials, so we'll sort it out by some other law, this situation won't go down like this. And you didn't mention it in particular, you've now responded here in the replica, but here as an expert in the area that you're covering, how will children who have two moms or two dads tomorrow feel, what their stress will be, what their social situation will be when they come into such a position. That would be interesting to hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72543	Replication response, Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72544	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I have also suggested that if it already insists on the adoption of this law that we do not think it was necessary to pass at all, especially not for the law that this proposal is, it could have been, if it wanted to be improved, complemented by the existing law. However, there is certainly a whole series of officials who would have to be able to appeal to their conscience because it is deeply opposed to their religious or secular views, and they will be forced to carry out what a whole series of international documents guarantee that they do not have to be forced to do so. And that's why, if he's already insisting on such a law and that kind of thing that I'm repeating once again because I want it to be very clear, that it's not about two or three years from now, the ambiguity and the question of who's to blame. Unfortunately, this law does not solve anything, nothing improves the position of anyone but serves as one general declaration, but if it is to be implemented then all these servants will find themselves in a very invisible position because they are simply on the one hand constraint of the possibility of choice, and on the other hand they will find themselves in a situation that they will not be able to implement what this law requires because the other law, a whole series of other laws, and I have numbered them that solve this matter differently, in fact to convince them that they have to do otherwise. Who's going to solve this problem is hard for me to tell right now, and that's exactly the argument that makes me think this law is bad and that it should be withdrawn from the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72545	Now we will hear the replica of the respected Ivan Simunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72546	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Reiner, I agree with you that it is a very problematic part of this bill that concerns rights and obligations towards children. I think these provisions are trying to expose the door to future adoption by homosexual couples, which is totally unacceptable. We believe that these provisions should be left out of the bill. Decisions like this must not appear overnight. The child is not a fashion supplement. Having a child does not mean filling your own emotional voids but providing life. When putting a child’s life in the hands of any person, all aspects that may affect the welfare and development of the child should be considered. I have the impression that this is not the least bit of attention that's been given here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72547	The replica matches Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72548	Thank you very much. Well, I've pointed out this a number of times, and I want once again to regrettably not to worry about a whole series of international documents from the United Nations General Assembly resolution to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, etc. etc. Allow me, however, when it comes to children and the situation that will potentially cause this Law if adopted. It's a matter of medically assisted insemination. It is made possible by same-sex couples, and the existing Law on Medical Aided Insemination prohibits access to same-sex couples of medically assisted insemination. And now look again at one bizarre thing. We have a fresh law that this majority, this government proudly brought to the big bells, and now proud of the big bells, brings something that is totally, totally contrary to the fact that they recently boasted about it. So what are we talking about? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72549	Next replica, respected Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72550	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Reiner, unlike my colleague Vuksic, I am not disappointed. I always take my hat off to your debate technique, although, of course, I don't agree with the content at all. But this skill thesis is really impressive. But what I was actually going to say is this. The passing of a new law as a controversial point with which you started about your exposure. First of all, you're on your own in college, say, when we had the Law on Higher Education and Science, you said it wasn't good to work on the existing law, but to pass a new law, and in this case, when we have a situation that would even more than in that case affect the existing law, you're trying to advocate that we're working on an existing law, or when we're doing what you're suggesting we should do again, it's not good and you're not satisfied again. But what I really am and what the main point of my replica is to say is this. The economic crisis that is indisputable and that there are many, too many unemployed, does not mean that there is no place for human dignity in this House, that there is no place for equality before the law in this country and that there is no place for all citizens and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to live in a community that accepts us as we are at least at the level of regulations. I have a family and a good job and that by law I can't have a family like I have, or I can't have a job like I have, I would leave this House and my job for seconds. There are things that are at least as important as jobs – human dignity, equality before the law are one or two of these things. And just because it's a crisis doesn't mean we can't discuss it and it doesn't mean we don't have to discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72551	Answer, Vice President Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72552	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Coleman, we actually agree on a lot of things as always. I said in my third sentence that you forgot to quote that regardless of what a small number of people are, that even if there are several times more, and probably because of the environment many don't actually recognize such a form of life for various reasons, that they actually need to be solved. But I'm sure it's not the most important thing at this hour, certainly. You'll agree to that, too. I will absolutely agree with you that there can be no reason for human dignity to be compromised or certain rights to be threatened. However, we clearly interpret them differently. For example, you don't care what I said about this Law, even though it's called the Life Partnership Act, and certainly no different, not about the life partnership of same-sex communities, or anything else, and I've already had something to say about it in the beginning, so your colleagues from your camp have accused me of accusing the malts that I'm overly defending actually those to whom this law applies, which is once again one of the bizarre things I suppose is our policy. But in any case, intercessoring, so I can't help but notice that he's being discriminated against by others. And I made it very clear. He is discriminatory, for example, towards first-line relatives, he is discriminatory towards some people who would like to use the graces that this law should potentially give them, but he does not give them because of all the controversy I unfortunately said and will not be feasible in real life but potentially that he would give them. Why are they being denied the right to do so? Thank you very much. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72553	The last replica, the esteemed Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72554	Here's my esteemed colleague Reiner, you said indeed that this law, which I agree with in an indirect way, allows for the adoption of children tomorrow if it is adopted in this form. It is the same question and indeed he is trying to protect certain rights, but my deep conviction is that others who cannot take care of themselves are not taking care of them, nor care about children who are in such psychophysical development that they cannot decide their fate. So now, does anyone or the proposer of this law think about children? Namely, let's go through with it. Here's because Mr. Lucin and Mr. Stazic support this law. Now let's take one Shime and one Nenad adopt one child and that child comes to the age of going to kindergarten, has two or three years and comes to kindergarten and talks to his peers there, simulates a possible situation, talks to his peers, and usually it's a question of who your mom is and what's really becoming without an answer, astounded because she doesn't know if this law allowed him to have either two dads or two moms. How can he answer his peers, go home and ask Sima and Nenada who Mom is, who's Dad? Now that this situation, we're talking about a reality that's real, that's possible. How such a situation affects the psychophysical development of a child. So this law protects some rights and that's true but this is about these others, so we don't take care of children at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72555	This replica will be answered by Vice-President Zeljko Reiner, but you will receive the right answer after that from the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72556	Thank you very much. Well, one of him in a series of my remarks was that children couldn't be objects, that they were always and must be subjects. However, the fact is that there is one whole series of dangerous linguistic engineering when the concepts of marriage, or family law, are renamed to something else that is actually relevant and identical to the concepts of marriage, adoption, etc. a certain term is taken over but only a partial one and that is why a total confusion is created in all of this together and then actually the creators have forgotten a little bit, and then suddenly in article 76 they write where they talk about freedom of movement and asylum protection, they clearly write that life partnerships are equal to the status of marriage communities. Then it wasn't written like that before, etc., etc. And of course, the right doesn't tolerate that one community has the same rights as the other, if you don't call it that and if you don't say it clearly. However, a number of controversys occur. Here's one I have to draw attention to again, for example. Unlike the marriage that lasts from the conclusion to the end, on the other hand, the promoter did not actually come up with parallel concepts and then, unlike the matrimonial gain, a partner continues to acquire after the partnership ended. In fact, it discriminates against that partner who's withdrawn from a relationship, so it's again one of the proofs of how unimaginable it is and how much it's not really protecting those that are declared to protect, but it's just going to create new problems and controversy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72557	Thank you. The Minister of Management Arsen Bauk has now come forward and we expect him to explain the situation of Nenad and Sima.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72558	I would like to join those who have praised Vice President Reiner's rhetoric. I've already met something similar on the Committee on Health and Social Policy, and I've explained some things and I'd say the following. Any objection that has been made and which will be discussed will be reasonedly accepted or rejected, so of course we will see which are stronger arguments. As my surprise this right to be exposed in the middle of the debate has been reduced to five minutes, I am now unable to refer to everything said on behalf of the HDZ Club except that the principled views of the party's party leaders concerning the right to material, health, pension and other rights are not recognized by the club as the government's intention to do so, and in that sense I express my little regret but well, perhaps in the second reading we fix the text so it is acceptable if, if possible, we have a certain skeptic about it but we should always believe. What particularly struck me in a positive sense is Mr. Reiner's statement that this law will not improve the position of same-sex communities and in this sense it has come to the most serious competition that the advocates of LGDB's rights even though this law concerns only LG persons actually fit into competition not homo-friends, so it is that I understand more advocates the rights of same-sex communities and LGDB activists themselves and that is, if he is right, it is indeed something that I think is wrong, but if he is right, I may allow it to be so. What I must repeat, and it will probably be necessary several more times that this law does not allow the adoption of children and will not allow me to use it if fellow MPs agree that Mr. Milinovic told Nenadu and Shimi to adopt the child. No provision of this or any law in the Republic of Croatia allows any two men or two women in any relationship to adopt a child and be parents to him. Because I don't know what would be, who would be the father, who would be the mother. That doesn't have either parent one or parent two right now. This law does not allow it. What does this law allow? That the person who has his child, so Nenad or Shime as you said, if your colleagues bother you, I will do someone else and if after the marriage or the way they've already got a child enters the life partnership allows Nenada that if Shime dies or Shimi that if Nenad dies to continue caring for Nenad, or Shima's child. Or to be open, if a person, now I'm going to go for equality a little bit to female couples, if a person, a mother, so a lesbian who gives birth to a child is his mother and by having a child that can be conceived by natural, and also by medically assisted insemination, if she gives birth to a child and becomes a mother, she hasn't stopped being a lesbian, I hope we agree. And if she enters a life partnership, we can say that we regulate, as we do in Russia, that that child is taken away from her, and if that's how it should be, say so. If she doesn't feel right, then she, her partner, and that child will live in a family or family life community. Still, if he thinks they need it taken away, say so we'll at least be clean. If he doesn't think it's necessary for this woman to be taken away because she's entered into a life partnership, then let's regulate the way this community of life will function normally, and not in some way looking for a ruse to see, let them live, but we're going to make their brother, what we're going to do is make their lives a little worse by not giving them anything, no right to have, let them face their daily problems. And that's not right. And as Agent Sanader said, today there are children living with two women, one of whom is a mother, and the other is not his mother. Okay, I see there's a replica. So no marriage and no adoption. [[Intruding Stazic: There will be a replica, there will be opportunities.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72559	The first replica, the esteemed Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72560	Mr. Minister, you've expressed your regret in terms of us from HDZ. So I can say that in some way we smoke in cold, we or at least I, I don't think you had the courage to make it very clear to the same sex communities to adopt children, but that it's only one step in which you're going to do it in some future period, and we hope that you won't have a chance, or that you will lose the next parliamentary elections. Now this law reminds me a little of the Medical Insemination Act. Remember when Mr. Rainer talked about the reasons for this bill, and you mentioned the law now on medical insemination, so remember the title? Airplanes, buses, trains drive to the Czech Republic because here is the most rigid law in Europe, in the world because it prohibits the freezing of mattresses, and be careful to allow the freezing of sexual, egg, sex cells. And now you've also spectacularly changed that law, your government and the spectacular change of that law, we've first come to that old law in history that we have thousands of children born in medical insemination procedures, so over a thousand children, you're the new these advanced European, pro-European, and I don't know what you called it, by law, you've led to today having 20% less children born with medical fertilization procedures, not all the procedures that, those couples going to the Czech Republic, it was the other day in the media, you've reduced the payment of proceedings from six to four, demoted the rights of those who have fertility problems. I don't see any NGOs getting up on their feet.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72561	Time. It is not, however, about this law, assisted insemination, completely out of the question, but let's hear the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72562	That's why I don't want to talk about it, probably a fellow health minister can do it once there's a theme. So, if it's working...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72563	Just a little minister. Please remove those transparencys. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72564	So, if it's about blowing on cold, I think it's a constructive contribution to the debate, and then I'll take the exposure in that sense as a blow to the cold and as a precaution that might happen to those very creative interpretations of the provisions of the law, and then we can even better define those provisions, so that this blowing on the cold will be, there's no need for that anymore. So I take that as a good intention, and besides, in the replica, Mr. Reiner said that he was protecting some rights, and in one part you positively expressed yourself on some of the provisions of the law. What is the biggest controversy, the most sensitive question, is the question of children's rights, that is, the question of the rights of people living in a community with a child partner, and I'm trying to explain myself, so all the time, so I can do it one more time. So there is no legal possibility that a pair of same-sex claims to be, to adopt another person's child, there is no theoretical or practical possibility, to make that clear immediately. Secondly, there is the possibility that after the death of one of the partners, this other partner survived, who is then an individual, so he is no longer even in the life partnership, he has all the rights as well as all the other individuals, there is the possibility of asking the court to ask the court to grant him custody status. That's what the court decides in the best interests of the child. As for the possible further development of the Institute of Rights of Same-Sex Communities, there is no such thing in this law, whether after 1, 2, 3, 5 or 12 mandates of any government that will be, we will see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72565	New replica, Honorable Vice President of the House, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72566	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's interesting how on the one hand we're accused of being conservative, screwed up, etc., and on the other hand you're surprised when we're standing up for some rights, and our attitude is always the same. We stand very clearly in some positions, not the marriage of same-sex communities, and we are against it, not the adoption of children and not just the direct but indirect way of trying to get through here, but the pursuit of human freedoms and human rights not the kind of human rights you are trying to interpret because they are not human rights, but human rights yes, and especially for vulnerable groups. Not forgetting those vulnerable groups you don't want to see again is they not as interesting to you as voters. Therefore, our attitude is consequent and the question is whether it is recognized. This is simply a bad law that will not increase the rights of the person to whom it applies, introduces unnecessary one major controversy, a series of problems, and at this point I think to the Croatian state it really does not need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72567	Minister Arsen Bauk responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72568	So in the first two sentences, that's what I repeat what you're saying, and the third sentence is the consequence of interpreting the first two sentences. So as far as I'm concerned, I'm convinced that your party's law is a condition to stay in power once in a while to write a much more liberal law than we do and adopt it and convince all citizens that it's actually good with the same arguments. But it's good now we've seen cases like this. I've never accused you or the party or individuals of being conservative because I don't think it's an accusation. I think it's a normal belief, a worldview, etc. And I don't use the word "stupid" in public speech for sure, and in this I don't think I did, I don't use that expression, and there are a lot of worse expressions that I can use. As for those who characterise HDZ as a party, I will quote to you the statement by the Vice-President of the party and the EU MPs in the parliament that is at one point, I will quote "The Vice-President of the HDZ has reported that membership in Brussels cleans Croatia and when there are no translators that successfully meets everything Croatian citizens want except for one thing, when it comes to homosexuals we have had problems because European countries are a little more advanced so we remain in the minority with our views". The fact that someone has remained in the minority is not in itself bad, at least the SDP has lost the choice as in the story, but as far as someone is more advanced, it is primarily an insult to us in Croatia all I believe that this is not what the lady thought, but especially those who stayed in the minority if you say to these others that they are more advanced. So I don't want to defend you from your party members, I don't want to agree with them, but I would like to invite you to look a little bit at those she says are more advanced and together make a good law in a second reading that we will support with a very large majority of votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72569	A new replica of the esteemed Sime Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72570	Thank you very much. I'm not going to get lost in interpreting human rights, but I'd like to ask you Ministers if I was right. From your presentation and from these responses to the replicas, it seems to me that you have given up on that initial thesis that you will consider carefully and carefully at first reading. Now I understand you won't even consider a proposal that's been going around, and that's the possibility of adopting children. At the end of the argument, we often swear on EU members such as Sweden, Switzerland, Belgium, the Netherlands and so do not continue to list them. Maybe I don't know if you are, but I've been thinking about it, maybe a high standard of responsibility for a high level of safety at least addicts' least delinquency, maybe it's all a set and a set of one of those same stories. So when we swear perhaps in one part that we would like to, or do not, swear, but express our desire to be like these countries, maybe we should think about this a little bit. So I would just ask you to as you will consider this blow to the cold that you also consider this blow to the hot because I think we are still at least all equal in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72571	Minister Arsen Bauk responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72572	Well, you've noticed a fellow MP, from my answer you've come to think of it, and then I have to say a little more specifically. So all the demands will be considered, and the suggestions will be considered, and so will the one you have made. They have already been discussed in a public debate and we have also sent to Parliament a full public debate, a full consultation with the interested public it is about 200 pages with arguments for and against why we have accepted something why we have not accepted something, and then I will correct myself. All proposals will be considered, and I can now say with greater probability that some may be accepted, and some may not, but all will be considered. And now you wouldn't be able to make out which one, I think, is going to be able to conclude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72573	The replica of the esteemed Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72574	Mr. Minister, you mentioned that I said two moms and two dads, so I'd ask you what you think you're the child of someone healthy and lucky, and you know what our civilization is like. In our civilization, though, the mother is a symbol of something most beautiful and sacred. How would you feel listening to all the songs and beauty about mothers and you don't have moms? That's one thing. And secondly, I want to know when you've explained to us what's going to happen to the baby, so if Dad and Mom get divorced and the baby belongs to Mom, then Mom gets her life partner and Mom dies, then mom wants the baby to belong to that life partner, or she comes back to Dad, and Dad wants it, only Mom got it in court.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72575	It's a good opportunity for Minister Bauk to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72576	So this other child will come back to Dad because it's a condition for establishing a partner's care that another parent doesn't exist, that he died or that he's unknown, so he'll come back to Dad. That's the answer that's unambiguous. We can have an opinion whether it's better for a child or not. But it doesn't matter. Another thing about how someone would feel if I was good at quoting Zdravko and Happy with a little z and a kid with so, as far as I am, I did have an "A" in elementary school biology and a slightly worse grade in biology high school but as far as I know health and happiness can't get a child. Well then, it could be very difficult for someone to be a child of health care and happiness as much as that health and happiness can be advanced and capable, etc., etc. But if someone were to be a child of Health and Health Care or Happiness then he would probably be proud of his father Zdravka and his mother, Zdravka, or he would not be proud for some reason, perhaps because Father Zdravko one day decided to live with Happiness. Some children would not be proud of it and some children would be proud whether Zdravko went to live with Lucky male or Lucky female. But we also have this in heterosexual signs or without alleged signs of normal families, so children react differently to how father or mother leave the family or how they behave in the family. Well, I hope you're satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72577	The last replica of the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72578	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, in your discussion, you mentioned, among other things, the adoption of the children of mates, so the adoption of children and marriage, and it seemed to me a good opportunity just to remind me of how we developed, how we built our laws that it wasn't so long ago when we built into family law, for example, to adopt a child, for example, a woman who lives alone. So it wasn't that long ago. It's the same adjustment of the law, I call it real life because I always think that for a child it's better, absolutely and indescribably better to live in a family than to live in a home, that's what scientific research proved. But lately, you've probably read it too, and I've also mentioned the Law on Medical Insemination, and I've seen and I've read some announcements, so some doctors who think they're respectable, who say about this law, I quote that single women, and these are women who live alone, should be banned from that possibility. So these are also some trends in society where women living alone are called singles, which I think is actually a pessimistic message, but it is considered the possibility that this possibility of women living alone can be completely abolished in the law. So, all of this is a topic that we are actually discussing today, ultimately, about the human rights of each of us and finally, in the end, about the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia so many times mentioned but interpreted as we need it and when we need it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72579	And this replica corresponds to Minister Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72580	Thank you, ma'am. So this is, and I'm aware that this is also a need for a debate that is a little wider than the Life Partnership Act itself, this is a previous debate on the second reading of the Family Law, this is a previous debate on any possible amendments to the laws on medically assisted insemination, this is a preliminary debate on all the laws that regulate the rights of spouses, extramarital comrades, etc.. This could have been a debate on 20 amendments to the law which, as Mr. Reiner suggested, would concern everything that needs to be arranged. So during the past government is in Penal Code, for example. I find it a generous testimony for people in the same-sex community. Thus, the last government had taken some steps forward in that area. Hence, every time and every society has its own limitations that we can understand positively and negatively. For example, Mr. Milinovic mentioned Nenada and Sima and if he mentioned Mirko and Slavko, Mirko and Slavka would probably shoot at the time. And we like to call on the anti-fascist tradition, but that's when they'd be shot. So every once in a while, there are some limits that are positive and negative, and it's up to us that in our time these negative limits are as small as possible and this positive is as great as possible. But it still depends on how someone sets up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72581	Thank you. It's 13 o'clock and 27 minutes, appropriate time for me to announce my break. We'll continue at 15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72582	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue the debate. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72583	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected representatives of the ministry, MPs and MPs. This debate is on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives' Club, but at the same time this debate will, in fact, present the position of the HRAST, Croatian Dawn, HSP, the vows for Croatia, AHSS, ABH and the Family Party, so the Alliance for Croatia. So the proposal for a Life Partnership Act and the proposal for a minister came from the fundamental thesis that the position of the same-sex communities in the Republic of Croatia is unsatisfactory and that it should be changed. It is not any relevant and firm indication of why and how this position is unsatisfactorily attached, except that it is unsatisfactory. I will also remind myself that according to the 2011 census in the Republic of Croatia, there were 141 persons living in the same sex community, i.e. that in the Republic of Croatia we have 70 same-sex communities, 35 male and 35 female same-sex communities. This information is official, it is from the census, so we cannot question it but must accept it as credible, if we accept other data from the census as credible and, for example, that we have accepted data from the census as credible when it comes to Cyrillic in Vukovar. The bill itself regulates several fundamental issues through 80 articles. It is one thing to introduce the concept of a life partnership in front of state bodies, i.e. In the process of practically equal marriage, the parent is legalizing the life union of two people of the same sex. Under two, the legal effects of the conclusion of a life partnership are entirely and in all respects of all rights and obligations of equal partners arising out of it equal to the rights of partners who enter into marriage, except in part of children's rights. Under three, the notion of informal life partnership as a community of two persons of the same sex that are fully equated in rights and obligations with an extramarital community of heterosexual partners is introduced. The law also regulates relations with children living in such communities and introduces a special concept of partner care that transfers parental rights and obligations to same-sex partners who do not have children, but are in the same sex with a partner who is a parent of a minor child, and those persons under certain conditions and in a particular procedure can de facto assume the role of a third or fourth parent of a minor although they are not in any blood relation with that child. In these articles there is an open space for the recognition of the right to children born with surrogate parenting, or surrogate motherhood as a very sad practice of using other people to get their own children with payment. This bill from our point of view is controversial by many things. He's ideological and world-famous. In a broad public debate that preceded the bill and the parts that were presented in the accompanying text to the law, the legislator rejected all the proposals and all the objections that occurred both to professional and interested public, which offered different ideas that would make the bill closer to Croatia's tradition and to the value system of most Croatian citizens living today in the Republic of Croatia. One of our views on the quality of the comments from the public debate also referred to Chapter 2 of the Law. Articles 40 to 49 that regulate child-related relations. The subject of these articles from 40 to 49 is to edit i.e. restricting the rights of children found in this law as objects of certain relationships between their parents and persons with whom their parents are in a same-sex relationship. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Articles 63 and 64 speaks of the role of the state and parents in the education, education, maintenance and coherent and complete development of the personality of children. Bringing a child into the subject of order, and persons of same-sex orientation who are not their parents to the holders of rights compared to children, we believe that constitutional law is unacceptable. This violates a number of international norms and declarations relating to children's rights. In the opening speech, the minister spoke of that following the first reading of this law, there would be an amendment to the Family Law. It is the right of the promoter to make changes to the Family Law, however, that the provisions of the current Family Law are fully in force at the moment, and the provisions of the current Family Law prescribe the regulation of family relations based on the principle of equality between men and women and mutual respect and assistance of all family members, the protection of the welfare and rights of children and the responsibility of both parents for raising and raising children. This bill of law in many ways promotes family equality as a community of the lives of persons of the same sex on the one hand with the concept of family in the Family Law. The Family Law shows that the family is made up of men and women, and the family completes itself when your husband and wife have a child, in the broader sense of the Family Law. We in the HDSSB and the Alliance for Croatia agree with all those who call for dialogue, openness, tolerance and avoidance of exclusion on these issues and are ready to talk, we are ready to negotiate on these issues and on these issues because the good part of this issue is not a problem of human rights, but a worldview. We are also aware of the spirit of time, we are aware of the growing tendencies that, in the politics and society of this Western circle in which we are today, promote the values of same-sex communities, and relativise the value of marriage of men and women, families, the value of giving up for the community. The fact is that the image of the holy family as an ideal that we seek, this archetype that has been the ideal of Christian Europe for centuries is now more or less entangled with images from various parades in which former communists parade in the front lines, and now enlightened liberals and egalitarians. We don't want worldly and social conflicts, we don't want to sharpen around these world-wide topics because today, regardless of our sexual orientation, we're all on very difficult existential occasions and social opportunities. The economic crisis, recession and unemployment, is the fact that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia are affected independently by any worldwide variable. We are therefore also ready for the sake of peace in society and to strengthen democratic relations in society to certain compromises and agreements. But we're not ready to go beyond the next frame. The framework is that marriage is a community of women and men that the Croatian political people in the referendum were unequivocally manifested. Any verbal or legitimate acrobatics that are the result of different opinions or political projects cannot and must not be found in any legal solution in the Republic of Croatia as long as this provision of the beloved Croatian political people is in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Two, everyone has the right to choose what kind and which community they will live in, of course in accordance with the Law on regulated relations. Freedom is the right to choose, but it is also an obligation to accept the consequences of the decision that each of us freely and from no one distracted. So whoever freely decided to live in the same-sex community decided to live in a community that is contrary to the elemental model of life creation, so the community that's the opposite of conception. Three, every citizen of the Republic of Croatia who decides to live in homosexual, bisexual, transsexual or any other community needs to enjoy as a person and as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia full constitutional and legal rights and should not and should not be discriminated on any basis because of his choice and lifestyle as a person. And under four, the right to parenthood is the right of women and men living in a community to decide whether, when and how many children they will have. If our fellow citizens of the same-sex orientation have problems achieving some of their civil and life rights such as pension rights, health care, shared property, mutual restraint, abandonment and the like, these issues should be regulated and helped by our fellow citizens. But aid cannot be outside and beyond the constitutional and willful majority of Croatian citizens of defined legal and constitutional frameworks. The same-sex marriage model in front of the parent proposed by this law is totally unacceptable to us because it simply plays the Croatian Constitution, acts as a family law, and violates religious rights and freedoms because it forces Christians who perform the duty of matrimonials not to be able to appeal to their conscience. So we propose as a proposal, given that this is the first reading and the proposal is possibly one model in which such communities could be recognized, which is a model that, through our view, might be acceptable. For example, the Office of the State Administration may, at the request of two persons of the same sex, with the fulfilment of the law of the prescribed formal preconditions, carry out a certain administrative procedure, issue administrative solutions which will recognise the fact that they live in a particular community. This administrative solution would allow the exercise of the rights required and resulting from the fact that the same-sex partners live together. I don't know what that community could be called, but as this community is called from its consumption, there could be no rights to children. All questions concerning children are considered to be sufficiently well solved today by the Family Law and other laws governing this matter. And finally, let me do it one more time. So our position is that marriage is a community of men and women and none of the definitions outside that framework in all the surrogate models that are proposed for us will be acceptable. This is the position of the HDSSB, this is the position of the parties gathered around the Alliance for Croatia, and this is the world view we believe in. And therefore we are determined against such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72584	Thank you, too. And now we're moving on to replicas. There's a big number. Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72585	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll start from the beginning, I believe that my colleagues will later continue on to the other thesis that the distinguished colleague presented. Do you want to tell your colleague Đurović that the position of same-sex communities in the Republic of Croatia today is the same as the position of various communities before the adoption of this law. Are you saying that people living in the same sex community have the same rights, the same opportunities as those living in a multiple? Of course they don't, and because they don't have it, it's a perfectly accurate thesis presented by the esteemed Minister Bauk that the position of persons living in the same-sex community is unsatisfactory. And that's exactly why we're obliged to pass a law like this. I will discuss this more in my debate where I will point to a whole series of decisions of the European Court of Human Rights and the European Court of Justice which oblige us to pass such a law. Second colleague, I don't know how familiar you are, but for example, we have entered the European Union. Each of us and this Parliament can go to Spain, can settle in Spain, and after 6 months, according to the law that Spain has passed, can conclude the same sexual marriage. And then that person can return to the Republic of Croatia if he wants to. And what must the Republic of Croatia do because we are a member of the EU? He has to admit that marriage. The thesis that we can live outside the box, outside the community in which we are is the least said funny, and you need to know that. We don't need this law, we have to bring it. And finally, last time I checked, the parent was a civil servant, acting under the administrative procedure in the system of state administration, and acting within that framework made a decision that is exactly the same as you suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72586	Thank you, too. The answer of my colleague Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72587	Thank you. So I don't doubt who can do what he can when he goes to Spain, okay? However, I was never really in Spain, I was never born in Spain, I was born in Croatia, I mean in Croatia and die. What anyone will do if they go to Spain, if they go to Uganda, if they go to France or Australia, I don't know. It's his right to do whatever he thinks. You, therefore, feel that there is a certain problem from your worldly position I really don't feel it or feel it or see it. The only problem I feel that this society is burdening me is the problem of the economy and the problem of corruption. It's the only two problems I feel.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72588	Thank you. Zeljko Reiner, vice president of the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72589	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd refer to two things. One is related to the fact that the esteemed representative has said that he hopes that the remarks will be respected. If it's based on the law's preparation, then I'm afraid it won't, because here we all got over 200 pages of objections that virtually none of them are appreciated. A single fundamental observation about a single homosexual orientation is respected, which was indeed bizarre. All the others were a few small things, and no real remark was observed. So if 200 pages has not been respected so far, I don't know if much of what we're saying and we're suggesting will be appreciated. However, the esteemed representative has actually pointed out an important problem, and I don't think it's in any way in a renegade to mention it again even though it was mentioned today, which is that we can't introduce the right to a child because that right doesn't really know any international human rights document. We must protect the dignity and rights of the child regardless of what kind of life that child lives in. But we can't protect some imaginary adult's right to a child. Of course, we must also protect marriage, not in fact other forms. And certainly we have to protect both the child and the family, but let's look at the definitions of that. Therefore, abandoning the traditional roots of Croatian family law and non-critical adherence to some other solutions is also a reflection of the underestimation of its own system. Surely this system of ours isn't perfect, that he has weaknesses. However, he is on a relatively high level and we do not have to give him up so easily Thank you very much. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72590	Thank you. Next replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72591	Dear fellow Đurovic, we belong to different worlds in the eye of the incomparable light, judging by the presentations on this topic. And tensions can disappear or at least relax if each other, so people of different worlds respect each other, if they respect other's worlds, respect their own and respect other's worlds. You said that homosexual, transsexual persons should not be discriminated against as a person. But I'm amazed and I didn't get it right, so you're going to explain to me if when two people get together in one pair whether they can be discriminated against. So as a person, you can't, but a couple can be discriminated against. The fact is that children in the same sex communities exist, that's a fact, what are we going to do with these kids, are we going to take the kids away and what are we going to do with these kids? So we need to find a solution. You said that only, that statistics show that the population census shows that there are only 70 same-sex communities and that we have to accept that fact as we have accepted other facts in that list. However, in that list you have several Eskimoes, Martians, they've written a lot of things, I don't believe there are Martians in Croatia and I won't accept that they exist. So why is it only 70 of them, and because people are afraid, they don't dare sign up. You said you didn't feel their problems, neither did I, but I'm talking to them and I know what they're saying to me. So only if we were to tolerate each other, if we weren't exclusive, and if we respected other people's opinions and other worlds, would it be much easier for us. I respect your worldview, you respect other worlds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72592	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72593	Well, I think I respect it. I haven't noticed that I've offended anyone but my own or our own valuable positions, so the only thing I've ever seen on the left is that the Democrats were shouting shame on me and so on and so on and so on. So, as for children in same-sex communities, I don't know if there are, how many there are, and if there are, but there are, there are also today, if there are even before this law, they're probably all alive, healthy and living in some form of community. So, it's not going to be this law, what it's going to bring if it's working so far, I guess, I don't really know, and I don't have any problems with different positions or attitudes. I bring out our worldview and our valuable judgments on this subject and that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72594	Boro Grubisic replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72595	Thank you very much. You said that according to the population list there are 141 people, 140 I respect the correction because I don't know how this one at the end, one or one, it doesn't matter, but it doesn't matter, it's this clean, like this one little remark on the number. When you talk about children who are neither guilty nor obliged to be found in an object and in an object as objects in this law as third parties, third parties, you said yourself and we agree that no one defends anyone from living in the way they want to live. But when you mentioned the surrogate's mother, yesterday we spoke when it was the Law on the Protection of Motherhood, on the Protection of Breasts, on swearing and drilling into the chest, especially you on the left, that motherhood is what must not be disrupted in the employment, on the return to work, what is motherhood today? What are we saying today and how do we think about motherhood? What are you talking about here today because why you throw your colleagues when he takes his stand and he has a right not to quote you Walter? So, the well-being and dignity and the child, the right to this law is acquired to children and not to exercise children's rights, not even the right to motherhood is realized and it is banned in some way, so let's take broad legal provisions of 40-46, let's think a little deeper and not just by some I don't know how to tell the orders but by the provisions that are determined I don't know who delivered and asked these things. In addition, Croatia has the right, as any sovereign state within the EU, to determine its legislation. No one has said that Europe has prescribed legislation on this matter. Each state and this proves that 12 countries did not write because it has similar attitudes as Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72596	Replication response, colleague Đurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72597	A colleague Grubisic, their attitudes and their debates and their disfavor are simply and very clearly speaking about their positions, they would like everything, they would like both marriage and children and the full equalization of all forms of these communities but can't be in anger because we stopped them in the referendum and the Constitution building a union of marriage, a community of men and women and that's their problem, and now they're going to try this, possibly in a few months something else, but the problem isn't what's built into the Constitution and thank God that it's embedded.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72598	Thank you. Igor Coleman's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72599	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague would like you to look back, twice in this speech, once in the replica, you once mentioned surrogate motherhood and abuse in that sense and there was still and then some other stories, not from you but about pedophile and white slave smuggling, etc. All of these are in the current laws of criminal offences, serious crimes, things that are forbidden, and in fact, this attempt to impute one group in society a tendency to so administratively express the committing of serious crimes is precisely that, this perfection of these discussions that should be fought in my opinion and which should be disclosed. Second, approaching tradition and value system. We have this same problem all the time, and I keep pointing to some other colleagues and colleagues, the difference is in the next. No one imposes anything on anyone by this law, no one forces you to organize your private life any way you want. No one forces anyone to live in contrast with their own or tradition of their people or their religion, only allows people to organise their own lives on their own, and if there are 100, 95 belong to one tradition, 5 belong to quotes of another tradition. Of course, these five have no right to impose their own rules on this 95, but even these 95 have no right to impose their rules on this five, and that's what you're constantly trying to do and what we're world-widely different about, we're opening up the possibility, but we're not forcing anyone and we're not forcing anyone to do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72600	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72601	Well, colleague Coleman, that 95th to this five in all systems, and they're always imposing rules, we're going through the voting system and the decision-making method, and you're going to impose as the ruling majority when you make key social decisions without any call for consensus, which are reflected in all 4.3 million inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia. You can't just do this to a segment of personal rights, so what's with the right to work, the right to pay the bill, the right to the existence that is actually brought and managed by human lives, not 95%, but 51%, if you will. As regards this surrogate parenting, Article 45(2), except for paragraph 1 of this Article, if the other parent is unknown, and in order to protect the child’s interests and welfare, life partners can submit a proposal to the court that another life partner who is not a parent of a child is appointed as a parent, so this is a place for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72602	Thank you. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72603	My friend, I don't know why you mentioned surrogate motherhood, but that's something we'll definitely meet in the near future and we'll have to legalize. Croatia is a country that is extinct and everything that is created out of love, which is not, therefore, a new life that does not endanger a third person should be accepted. I'm very sorry that, with all our history, there's no question of killing anyone, there's little question, there's something that's meant to be, and there's no such thing as world-famous principles or views. You say this law is world-famous. It's not worldly-colored at all, it gives people, different people a chance to secure their own and organize their family life differently. I don't know what you might want, if there were any more sex police to investigate, so you recognize the right of a person to be like that, and that what, to lock it up, to close it, and not to admit it, so if you've given him the right to live, probably to live, and that someone can't beat him and the other rights, we as politicians, legislators give no one the right, but we give him back the right that has been right for centuries and maybe more. When you talk about traditions of some kind and so, do you know what all the traditions were, God's traditions in Croatia, that they were abductions of women, that there was a marriage on trial, so to question whether the woman was fertile at all. The kind of civil form of marriage that we have today was essentially just created during socialism modeled west into a Protestant part of Western Europe. Therefore, such an argument does not stand for you, so live and let others live.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72604	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72605	I'm not sure that by bringing out your worldview you could find an argument that would stand in your eyes, as in my eyes there's practically no argument that you're making, either. That's why we're talking about being completely different worlds, and when it comes to surrogate parenting, I firmly reject this thesis that you presented, and I'm sure it's no way for Croatia to change its nationality or any other measure, but that the only time is really responsible is parenting and raising children in families. And the measures the state will take to support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72606	Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72607	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Djurovic, you said this was a world-wide law and I would not agree there at all and I would say this is the Law of Human Rights. This is a question of human rights, not a worldview, because here, my colleague Coleman said before me, so this is not a law that imposes or dictates anything on anyone but gives people the opportunity to organize their personal life as they wish. I also disagree with your claim that marriage is equal to family, that colleague is not true. That's not true. Then what about single parents? Marriage is not equal to family, and marriage is ultimately protected in Croatia and the Constitution and our coalition has never said it will change the definition of marriage. So what it says in Article 5 of the current law, the Family Law remains, is that marriage is a legally arranged community of women and men. Protecting the child, I absolutely agree there, but not perhaps in the metrics because I said and I will repeat, the protection of children, yes, but not from same-sex parents, but from society that condemns and which apriori children from such relationships would condemn. This law, by the way, if you've talked to civil society associations dealing with this subject, these situations are already existing, we want to give people a legal framework, if it's a crime, then I don't know, I have no words.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72608	Thank you. Answer, colleague Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72609	Yes, once again, so this is not a question of crime or punishment, but of a world-famous concept, so for you this is a question of human rights, fundamental human rights, I see no question here, a problem of solving fundamental human rights, or that we are talking about communities here, not of people who have same-sex tendencies, but of forming same-sex communities, so I don't see what kind of human rights, basic human rights, or in any way we're going to change something drastically in these human rights. What interests me is primarily the protection of the family and the protection of the value of Croatian society, on which Croatian society is created, on which it rests and on which it should be and I think it is necessary to base its future.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72610	Thank you. Maria Lugaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72611	A colleague of Đurović, many articles of the Constitution seem to me to have been absorbed, some of you misinterpreted, but you seem to have missed Article 35. The Constitution. He says to everyone the respect and legal protection of his personal and family life, dignity, reputation, and honor are guaranteed. The human dignity of each individual, each individual. If only you had gone through this article in your discussion, the Constitution would have fallen into the water and proved completely unbeliefable. You said you were willing to negotiate, that you were ready to compromise from your world-wide position. I understand and accept different world views on the world, but there is one limit that there is no discussion on which there is no negotiations, it is a question of the human dignity of each individual and each individual, and that is exactly the basis for this law. If you understood it that way, the only thing that's right for me is that you wouldn't say many of the really scary almost and embarrassing thesis that you've said. You've brought the family down to an exclusively productive community of men and women who only with children get their full meaning and thus degrades every other family that doesn't fit in here according to you as you said in the Archetype of the Holy Family. I'm sorry, there are other kinds of families. Our Constitution guarantees protection and such families, our Constitution, the Croatian Constitution to which you and I have sworn and repeat the human dignity of every individual and every individual. And lastly, when you talk about the appeal of conscience, you want to advocate in the Family Law to appeal to the consciences of judges and judges who decide in cases of divorce of a branch that is religiously concluded, so let's be consistent with that request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72612	Thank you. Answer, colleague Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72613	Yes, and you have entered a whole series of contradictions in the course of these several thesis that you have presented. I can come from this last one, so this when you were talking about a marriage that was concluded in the civil process that his interruption was no violation of the Christian conscience for that judge who made the decision to divorce because the institution of marriage concluded in the church was resolved by other principles entirely. As far as human rights and freedoms are concerned, we can raise the highest human rights and freedoms on the pedestal at the declarative level and be sensitive when every government moves. But when the Croatian defenders came here recently if they were stripped of 10% of their pension and told us that fundamental human rights are being violated, we can't survive with that money, why didn't you call back, I said I wouldn't let Croatian defenders reduce their basic human rights if their families had nothing to live on. So let's face it, don't have double criteria for what you like, and what suits you there doesn't matter human rights, they'll manage somehow. They'll eat what they find on the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72614	Damir Rimac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72615	Your Honor. I don't know how to begin, so I'll tell you what I really mean. So your speech was so inspired that I almost fell asleep, but you woke me up with only one fact you mentioned and you put emphasis on the similarity of marriage between a man and a woman connecting them with a sacred picture of a family. So your speech was tailored to a time of hate and I would put it in the 13th century, sad but true. Your speech is also devastating for the conservative Croatia that exists and should exist because it is always a ying-yang and some kind of relationship. I can't help but get the impression that you're being haunted by a sense of danger. For what? Who's threatening you? Who threatens this country's marriage? What's my marriage with, here I'm going to talk about myself and this church marriage, with which he's threatened, who's threatening him? The same-sex communities endanger church or civil marriages, interesting thesis. I'm asking you one more question, what are my children at stake with? I believe that children should open their eyes both as parents and as a former teacher, a pedagogue and teach them to respect differences. This country is multicultural, this country is multiethnic, so if you want to say that this country is partly and multi-sex-oriented, we can't ignore it. In every population there are homosexuals in this House, there are homosexuals, there must be one of us sitting here, sure. I was talking about it to your colleague Zoran Vinkovic when it was the same debate about one law we couldn't agree on. And please, in the end, I know that my time is up, do I have an impact on your political worldview or your sexual orientation? Do you feel threatened? Answer me that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72616	Thank you. We'll hear the answer of my colleague Đurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72617	Since the speech was so boring and you just woke up for a moment you were able to write it down a lot. As far as hate speech is concerned, I don't see why you're showing some archetype picture of the Holy Family associated with hate and why you're making a picture of someone hating you. So if I'm talking about the Holy Family, I hate it, and you hate it, you love it. I don't understand your position. And I didn't feel in my speech or really hate anyone, but I don't hate anyone else, and I didn't feel like I mentioned hate anywhere. I didn't recognize her in what I said. I don't feel threatened, but I don't know what's putting you so at risk in these positions that I'm talking about. And finally, to know where you live, and since you and your media are constantly producing what kind of polls you do, pay for one survey in Croatian society, one survey with a representative sample of 1500 citizens and see what positions Croatian citizens are in. Well, the fact that you won elections in the anger of Croatian citizens against HDZ doesn't mean that Croatian citizens in most of them share your value system. So do a survey, so look at which value system is shared by Croatian citizens and we will look for the direction and the media of Croatian society together towards about the middle of that value system shared by Croatian citizens. So who gives you the right to change Croatian society according to your worldview because you won the election in a short term of four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72618	Thank you. Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72619	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, my colleague, I think we should stick to the one that respects differences and reduce tensions. Here's what the speakers said, but they certainly didn't cause as much reaction as your speech. You counted the number of same-sex communities, the Zara is an important number? It is also important that we fight for everyone and fight against discrimination or diversity. We can't wipe, we can't... We can't forget because they're reality, they're there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're among us for telling a colleague in front of me. Your speech and I will evaluate it as world-famous, ideological and, however, you should respect your worldview, but respect both ours and the others. You mentioned a Croatian tradition. It turns out that Croatian tradition is discriminatory and I disagree. This is the Anti- Discrimination Act. You also mentioned the responsibility of both parents. And now I'm going to read to you what a young colleague wrote to me before this law. He says my parents divorced after 20 years of marriage mostly because of my father's adultery. Was their heterosexual marriage a guarantee that I would become a good person or a bad person or was their heterosexual marriage a guarantee that I too would be heterosexual? I don't think so. I have many friends who come from a variety of living circumstances, none of my gay friends or gay friends have grown up in a homosexual community. Of course, their family has influenced their lives in some way, but in the end, it is a personal choice. And another thing, not 100 years ago, in order for a man to influence his environment to be property, he had property. So we ask ourselves, 100 years ago, would many of us here have the right to vote? And that's why we have to keep remembering. [[Intruder: Time co-worker.]] I need something else at the end if I can, and that's, I'm going to skip this, you mentioned Natalie, we're all worried about Croatia because of the birth rate. You were talking about the surrogate, that you're against the surrogates, that's your course point of view, of course, but You're a doctor and you're sterile? [[Intruder: We'll have to finish the time of our colleague.]] What about health care? How much HPV virus can cause... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72620	Comrade Bonačić, please, you've exceeded your time. And the last replica of Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72621	Comrade Djurovic, I will try to simplify the thought you said in your debate and to which I want to refer. So, you said approximately, world-wide issues shouldn't take up too much communication space because we have too many economic problems, so Croatia is in recession. Why should worldly issues be put on the other hand in relation to economic issues? I am of the opinion that these are equally important issues and that each other needs to be given equal space. Why can't we talk about each other in comparison? A team that actually has nothing to do with each other. What do I mean? It is not only economic achievements that measure the development of a society but also the level of respect for human rights. Let's say we take an example of India. It is a country that has been recording extremely high rates of economic growth in recent years. So you know what they've done lately? So they made a decision that the same sexual relationship was a retaliatory act. So for a while he wasn't now they're back in reverse, fat backwards. Or, for example, Australia, after Australia joined that still few world countries that had passed the same - sex marriages a few years ago, their supreme court annulled that decision and brought it all back to normal. So, what I want to say is the world-wide issues are important and should be talked about as naturally as about economic problems, but what is absolutely the most important of all the different world-class world-famous ones must be respected and respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72622	Thank you. Answer, colleague Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72623	Well, I think that in countries that are in deep economic crisis, it's still much more important to talk about economic issues because people simply live on their existence than on their worldview. And many people are existentially endangered today in the Croatian state. And on the other hand, I think because on economic issues, especially at a time of crisis, there is a consensus. Because the crisis is pressing all of us, and it has to push us to actually look for common solutions. On this issue and other world-wide issues, I'm always surprised at how many of your starting grounds you're actually formulating some of the law's solutions are actually left and I have to tell light years away from my world and the world that I'm thinking about, and it's probably the same thing on the other hand. And I don't think we're going to meet here and we can't find each other, but in times of crisis, and when you mention an example of India, it's still for them, for a society where hundreds of thousands of people are practically starving anyway, regardless of their economic growth, it's much more important that they have their own economic problem in focus and that people don't starve to death than this second question that you mentioned, that's my opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72624	Thank you. Minister of Administration Arsen Bauk called for the word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72625	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will look back at three things you said in your presentation to Djurovic, first you called for a conversation, I must say that I accept your invitation. Tell us where and when, it doesn't have to be in public, we'll make it clear what we agree on, what we disagree on because we always need to talk. As for the talks, there is a different regulation of the rights of same-sex communities in different countries of the world. In some countries such as Iran, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Mauritania, death penalty for both sexes, or homosexuals, has been prevented. In some countries, it's just a life sentence. In some countries, it's a prison, not a lifetime, but a certain one. In some countries, female homosexuality is legal, and male is punishable by death, and there is. In some countries, there are, therefore, recognised in only some parts of the state, in the Federations, for example, in other parts of the country is not recognised. I don't think it's even punishable in that case. In some countries the same-sex communities are simply not recognised, the state ignores it, in some countries it is recognised but not given some great rights, it is currently in Croatia. In some countries, rights are recognised but less than marriage, and in some countries marriages and same - sex communities have been equated. If we could have that conversation, I'd like to know what your position is. So I'd like to know what's really wrong with the proposal, and what we're different about, in these rights. So I'm from what you've said that you're not up for punishment, I hope I've made a good point. I have concluded that you are not against certain rights, and I have concluded that you are against certain rights and we can discuss it, and I would only warn you that you were in ideological terms, let's just say that on one side at the time of the economic crisis when it was a referendum. So it's nothing unusual. I'd like to and today I've reacted a little more sharply to one of your statements and I'll always react if people who are in the minority, and homosexuals certainly are, Imputate that they are prone to something that is otherwise the most good is not. So in this sense you will always encounter a reaction, but if you are calling for a very happy conversation about everything, then I would be happy to talk about this subject as well. And on that scale between the Iranian and the French models to say so, I'd like to know where you are because I know where we are, we're somewhere closer to French, let's say that in German. So I'd like to know what you're up for, and then we'll soon find out what we agree on, which we disagree on and what it is and why it's so different, so that's respect. From what you've said, I've realized something, something I haven't yet, but I believe in this call to the conversation that you said, which you've referred to, I'm going to be able to figure out what the problem is, and then I call again for tolerance and conversation. I'd have a lot of criticism about your exposure, too, but my colleagues in replicas said that, so there's no need to encourage it further. And I have something else to say, today my colleague Marasovic said that homosexuals are in all parties. As for this number that you said turns out we have more parties than gays, so maybe that wouldn't be entirely true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72626	Thank you, Minister. Replies two. Željko Reiner, Vice President, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72627	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, you've given us a very nice magazine about how it is in various countries. This bothered me that you would have criticism of what one MP said. You are not here to criticize the MPs and finally the members of the government should understand that they are the executive authority and that they come here to answer questions and explain things, not to pollemise, discuss or with the positions of MPs. However, since you are invited to make specific remarks, I have made several comments, and I will now give another one related to Article 71. Since this is not the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, a seemingly undeniable provision has been introduced, this provision, for example, means that someone renting an apartment. or the apartment at sea can't exactly rent an apartment he wants because he can easily be sued and punished for discrimination, accused at least of it. And for example, it certainly isn't something we could support. Thus, it is not true, as some colleagues have said, that the law imposes nothing, so it does. Here's the thing: You can't choose which apartment you're renting your apartment to, but you're putting yourself in danger of being charged with discrimination. You can't choose who you're going to work with, etc. Therefore, this is one problem, and it is particularly funny in the following article where the mostmodel cannot break the lease contract because, for example, it is a problem. Make a deal with one person who moved into your apartment, he says he's in a life partnership with another person, that other person moved into an apartment and you can't break the contract in a rental anymore. So you can break the lease if someone comes and has 10 cats, if they have a pet drown, if you don't like it, but you can't break the contract next. That's bizarre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72628	Thank you, Vice President. I listened carefully, I had to comment, I listened carefully to the Minister's debate, and it was not an intensity to face opinions in terms but to call for dialogue, which is the intensity of every debate. Minister, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72629	Thank you. Yes, you were going to tell Mr. Vice President that the House is for MPs and that the other guests are. Did I get that right? So I was elected representative in the Xth Election Unit, I was first on the list and won the election unit and I don't think I should refrain from taking my opinion in the Croatian Parliament regardless of what the Croatian Parliament gave him confidence in the minister but good. And as for this second one, which you have said, Article 71 reads: "Insufficient treatment on the basis of the life partnership status as regards access to all services both in the market and in the public sector is a form of discrimination and as such is prohibited." So the person at the kiosk must sell the newspaper to someone regardless of their homosexual orientation. If two men come and hold hands, they want to buy a newspaper he has to sell them to him. If you have the opposite opinion, let me know. This is also true for those who provide services on the market that this is valid, and these specific cases will be explained in response, therefore to the comments from the first reading. Allows the possibility that it cannot be applied somewhere, allows for possibility. I will inform myself about this, but as far as services are concerned, so those on the market must be available to everyone and someone in the store can't decide not to sell a liter of milk to someone because there are other sexual orientations. It can't. I believe that's not your intention to say it, and in this particular case, so if someone rents a rental service, they shouldn't, therefore, refuse that service if they're on the market because of their sexual orientation. That's exactly what it says. And as for the subsequent knowledge, we can do that, so I have to say that I will consider it in detail. At this point, I don't think of any other parallel, so here's what I think I was clear on what we wanted to achieve with this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72630	Thank you. Next replica, Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72631	Yeah, there's a lot of stuff there. One is when it comes to infertility. So a man and a woman want to have children and can't have children and they have a problem infertility. This infertility is treated with infertility treatment methods. Two men enter the community freely and responsibly, they have no problem infertility. They're in a community that can't create a new life. None of them have a problem of infertility, nor does that community have a problem of infertility. And I don't accept the opening of a space to solve this so-called problem. infertility with various instruments. There's no infertility. So, people with a free decision define their desire to live in a same-sex community, let them exercise all the rights that don't come out of that community. But don't let them look for children, freedom and responsibility. So you chose a community from which children cannot come – free, responsible and all ok. And the space is gradually opened for such a community or for persons in that community to be declared infertility. So we'll look for ways to treat people in these communities from infertility. So it's a twisting thesis. And I don't get mad at you at all, and I like you, and you know it, so I'm happy to accept your invitation to coffee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72632	Thank you. The minister's reply to the replica. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72633	Mr. Representative, when you tell me on this subject that I'm nice to you, it causes a response from the MPs in any case, but good. So, in this part of it, I agree with you, but completely. Believe it or not, not because I like you, but because you said something that I'm saying. So if we have two men of whom one has a child, then surely they have no problem infertility. Because if they had this one, they wouldn't have a child of their own. I don't think it's necessary to complete a logic course. So the two of them have no problem infertility, because at least one of them has a child with a woman from his previous or during the time he was in or will have, I don't know. And we just want to regulate this right, so in a certain case, when that child no longer has anyone else who doesn't have that problem, he can ask the court to appoint him as a guardian partner. So he can ask the court to appoint him as a guardian partner, and the second sentence states that the court decides in the best interests of the child. However, how the courts will decide that we had a case one. Therefore, you are absolutely right that this law should not address the problem of infertility, there is no problem of infertility. So, if someone has a child of their own, then it is certainly not a problem of infertility, so this law does not need to be dealt with. Here, and as far as sympathy goes, thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72634	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS club, the debate was shared by Sonja König and Igor Coleman. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72635	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of our Parliament, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues or colleagues. Respect for human rights must be the basis of Croatia, and the fact that we are different is our wealth. According to these provisions, in accordance with their political values, according to the human values of the HNS club will be supported by the Life Partnership Act. We're betting that this law should be passed as soon as possible. By passing the Life Partnership Act, we will prove that we respect the rights of our fellow citizens, we will prove that we are aware of the reality in which we live. Because our fellow citizens, our neighbors, our colleagues, our friends or acquaintances living in same-sex communities pay taxes, work in the field, in the Parliament, in the church, in the union, in the factory, the bakers are either athletes or defenders, sick or healthy, share and create the fate of our country, love their partners or partners but the state still doesn't value their love the same. And love is love whether they love Zeljko or Joseph, whether they love Sonja or Djurjka, whether they love Sonja or Zvonko. But in our country, Sonja still can't inherit Gurji's apartment even though they spent their whole lives together sharing both good and evil. In our country, in the case of Gjurji’s disease, Sonja cannot use sick leave or decide on Gjurjič’s or Jadranka’s treatment procedure. And not to talk about a whole series of pension or social rights, and by denying the rights that are secured by other communities, which are secured by other people but with the same love our country does not respect what we and the Constitution have defined and this is a ban on discrimination. This law changes that. But when we talk about the legal rights we must not allow others, then we need to be consistent and apply the same rule to the Life Partnership Act. In other words, in the HNS Club, the rights and obligations prescribed by the Life Partnership Act should also be extended to heterosexual or various sex communities, which means that the possibility of making life matery should be given to all those who want it regardless of which sex or whatever sex they love. This will prove that we respect the Constitution of our country, that we respect the conventions we have signed and ratified, thus proving that we are all truly equal before the law. So, we don't all have to love each other or imitate and agree in everything, but the constitution that we have brought and called upon when we make an oath and the humanity that determines us and that makes us human beings bound to treat us all the way we would like to be treated, and that's the same, and that's to allow everyone equal rights and to celebrate our differences, to appreciate and use them as a huge potential and not as a basis for discrimination because we're all different, we're all based on a minority, but it can't mean that we have less rights. Thank you very much. The rights will be continued by my colleague Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72636	Thank you Sonja, thank you, dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, respected ministers in absentia, assistants, deputies. If I may only have the details in general, it seems to me that this debate today is a major progress of the Croatian Parliament. This is a topic that is not easy in any country, this is a topic that is being broken by spears in many ways in much more developed and stable democratic systems than ours and I seem to agree or disagree, but the level of arguments, political consistency and calmness of respect in this debate is something that we can be satisfied with regardless of which side of Parliament we sit but to return to the main topic. So what is the basis of the whole story is that this law allows couples in Croatia who already live or want to live in a family community to exercise their rights and obligations. It's just as important to emphasize who goes along with that kind of life. Therefore, it allows access to economic, social, pension, health, work and other rights relating to family communities either married or out-of-marriage, which in one group of our citizens because of sexual orientation have so far been completely unreachable and the lack of access to rights due to sexual orientation is unsustainable. This also confirms, among other things, the practice of the European Court of Human Rights which has clearly established that countries have an obligation to provide same-sex communities with the rights necessary for the functioning of the family unit. In a practical sense, and based on this bill, this means, among other things, an urgent decision on the partner's health, organ donations, intensive care visits, succession and joint assets, family pension, health insurance through a life partner, the obligation to maintain a partner after a break-up, paid leave due to the care of a partner, tax relief due to the maintenance of an unemployed partner, joint credit, joint rent of an apartment and particularly important protection against discrimination. All I've listed are things that various sexual partners who are married take for granted. We all consider this a fundamental element of the marriage community and the relationship in which we live with our partners and we do not think for two seconds about it we consider it part of the natural order and on the other hand some of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens cannot do so in their communities, in their partnerships and it is unsustainable and inadmissible. This law simply respects and recognises the fact that couples live in the Republic of Croatia with children and for the first time regulates the life of such couples and their children. At this point, the statistical system of such a family recognises as one parent, but they are a fact that there is both legal recognition and respect for such families is an important step towards achieving equality in the rights of all people in the Republic of Croatia. Especially children living in such families who do not have the opportunities and rights that should come from the facts of family life. The family of same-sex couples in Croatia exist and the question is only one question, does it recognize and protect the law or does it not recognise them or protect them? And a little depression, all of us who have had the opportunity to meet such families are aware of one thing in the context of this debate today. It takes exactly 30 seconds for such a family to become naturally normal, there is no difference. The dynamics of relationships in such families between partners, between children, are exactly the same as any other family or completely different as any family in some matters is completely different. But the difference, given the fact that they're both sex families or gender families, isn't really there, and all of us who know such families can testify to that. This law is a major step forward and the HNS will be pleased to support it with a practical note that has been very well warned by academic Reiner, which is that it will need to work on the education of people in the judiciary, in the public administration, in health care and all those who, in various situations, will face up to now the non-existent and unknown life partnership institute. On the other hand, regardless of the big step and the big progress, there are two elements that we consider to be giving more space to move forward. The first element is the fact that the Institute of Life Partnership is not available to various sexual partners. Such a situation with one thing once again introduces a certain inequality into the rights of the system, and on the other hand, as much as I think it's not one kind of legal ghetto again in some way same-sex couples. The arguments for both solutions are very strong, they are also valid for the introduction of this right for heterosexual or all couples are strong and arguments that are against it, so at this point our suggestion and request is just that this part of the story remains the topic of discussion until the end and that if we get to know the public better and more thoroughly with the arguments both for one option and for another. Secondly, the area remaining as a key area of inequality remains an area related to children, as in the section regulated by this law, so in cases where one parent partner, we agree that the possibility of adoption by another partner might also be considered there, and in particular the space remains unregulated and the area of discrimination remains open in a section that remains completely inaccessible to the same-sex partners, which is adoption of children. Regardless of the criticisms, this law really does, and I fully agree with the minister, this law does not really foresee that possibility either directly or indirectly or through the chimney, as the minister said earlier, it is a fact. We think it's one of the areas that might be considered and might be even more free to regulate. For us in HNS, the ultimate goal we consider to be to go towards is the full equality of same-sex couples in all segments, and that is under the auspices of one family law. By supporting this law fully aware of the degree of development we live on but that is the goal for which we will continue to fight until it is achieved. Our support for the rights that gives this law and their further expansion, and I stress that as a final thought, is not just any generous giving of rights to anyone, but simply accepting and respecting the fact that gay and lesbian couples are part of our reality and its equal members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72637	Thank you, too. Now first we're going to be replicating Sonja König's colleague. Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72638	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I agree with you, colleague Sonja, in the part where you say this law is discriminatory. Yeah, it's really on me. Why can't two heterosexuals make one of these life partnership laws? Why? We already have an existing Law on Same-Sex Communities, a law on preventing discrimination where, perhaps even in this Law on Same-Sex Communities, I have read them well since 2003 and there is nothing that was not favourable for the same sex people who, as you say out of love, want to make a community of their own. But this is really what I think discrimination is because there are two people, two friends, or I don't know what old ones are talking about here, but unfortunately I wasn't here, I was on the board. And I just want to tell Sonja if one day my son gets married and leaves me, and your child leaves you, too, why not, so we'll take care of each other. And that doesn't mean we're same-sex, that doesn't mean anything else. But we can't make a law like this and we can't do anything but go to the public notebook and copy our property to each other. I'm older than you, so I assume you'll inherit mine. You know, Minister, it's a little bit too aggressive here that this law really applies to only one group of people or you said somewhere in your presentation to 70 or 71 couples in Croatia. Indeed, even under this law, they can make some kind of community come true. And as for discrimination, certainly no one will discriminate against them. [[/Intruder: Time please. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72639	We have an answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72640	Well, my fellow Gyurjits, if I'd really like someone to take care of me, it's certainly you. Thank you very much and thank you very much for your understanding of our proposal, which refers to everyone having the right to enter into a life partnership regardless of whether they are in the same sex or sexual communities. In other words, this means that we can expect your support in the vote when we propose our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72641	Thank you, too. And another replica, Jadranka Kosor. Welcome to Sonja König's presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72642	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues of König, I will not speak of our concern but would refer to an important part of your presentation in which you mentioned conventions, documents and the United Nations, as well as the Council of Europe conventions that we have adopted and the Convention on Human Rights, fundamental human rights. All that is, it is embedded in this Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that we so often call upon, in these laws such as the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, which seems to me only one MP did not raise in the assembly of the Croatian Parliament of hands then, the Law on Gender Equality, etc.. But what I'm saying is that since there's a debate here in the political environment. Often, it takes a lot of big steps to take from what we voted on, from what is written on paper, from conventions that we have accepted to real life and hypocrisy often times all of us, even smaller because each of us is an excellent minority. But we are also members of different minorities, so single parents, divorced men and women are willing to discriminate against another minority that is not our will. So policy hypocrisy is the same thing to talk about openly. So we were faced and we were sometimes to say the sanctity of marriage in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is sovereignly advocated by those who have double and triple lives, family abusers, children's rights and their futures are also occupied by those who are declared domestic bullies and nothing. So, when we are discussing such important issues and in crisis, we need to discuss these issues because in a crisis, violence, intolerance and disrespect of others because the crisis is confusing, then we need to be more honest and talk really more about what our right views are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72643	Thank you. Answer me, colleague König.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72644	Thank you very much. My colleague Kosor, I absolutely agree with everything you've said to add that it's important for all of this to be brought up. It is absolutely important to introduce as urgently as possible for this medical and civic education at school. But judging by some discussions of our colleagues in the Parliament, I think we would need both health and civic education and some colleagues in the Parliament, or us in the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72645	Thank you, too. Now we're crossing... Please, colleagues and colleagues, I didn't notice... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Do you have a replica of my colleague Coleman's exposure? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now we move on to these replicas. So Colman's fellow replicas to your exposure. Branko Vuksic first answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72646	Dear colleague Coleman, I agree with one of your findings which was important to note, which is that today's debate in the Assembly is dignified. This is one topic that can cause different recommendations and has been debated very correctly. It's an ideological and secular theme and it was acceptablely temperamental. She was only ideologically scarred for moments. And how good it was, in fact, and how much understanding there was, the most to say, a replica between my colleague twilight and könig. First of all, try to understand different attitudes. And I think it's a big breakthrough for the Croatian Parliament. And I'd just like to take advantage of it, abuse the Rules of Procedure and say that I'm very pleased with the very reasoned debate of my colleague König and the inspired debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72647	Thank you. My colleague Coleman's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72648	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Vuksic absolutely agrees with you, I have nothing to add except to stress that I will allow myself and I hope it will prove that I have not only allowed myself to be naive but that indeed this debate has shown that, regardless of the political and worldly and other differences that we have succeeded today, we have actually made some sort of step forward in how you have said the dignity of discussing a topic which, as I said and in the presentation, is not simple, it is not easy and does not go anywhere without serious disagreements and disputes, whether ideological, whether secular, were any different. So in that sense, I hope it doesn't prove that this dignity of the debate was actually hiding something else. But that's why I'm saying, I'm gonna let myself be a little naive today, so at least today I'm gonna enjoy it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72649	Thank you. Next replica, Ivan Simunovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72650	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today, a colleague named Coleman lives in Croatia 4 million and 400,000 people who have the right to vote mean that they are older than 18 years old and decide their own fate. According to your worldview, we may have 2 million and 200 thousand same-sex marriages tomorrow in Croatia, so I would like to ask you a few questions to answer me. In 8 years in the Republic of Croatia, how many will be enrolled first year, in 12 years of high school students, and in 16 years of freshman year? And according to your projection, how many will be resident in the Republic of Croatia in 50 years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72651	Thank you very much. Maybe a statistical office, but my colleague Coleman called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72652	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First, I think Minister Bauk is more relevant but 4 million 400 thousand voters are certainly not in Croatia, I think the figure is about 3700 or how many last ones. But that's not the point. The point is that this argument is going to lead to the fact that we have 2 million same-sex marriages on the border is, in fact, my capacity to talk rationally and logically about it, and that would actually mean that we're all together, all of us latent homosexuals, and we're just waiting for a law like this to come and leave our wives and our husbands and throw each other in same-sex hugs, which then logically, again, means that the worldview you're calling is one big lie because that means that actually, by what you're saying, no one lives that worldview that you're talking about, but we're all really something else. I don't believe in any of the elements of this derivation that I've led you to say that somehow, I find it rather difficult to argue with it, but at least I've tried to point out a few minor illogicalities in your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72653	Thank you. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72654	A colleague that you pointed out in your final speech that something I think is the most important thing that is said here today and this bill is the first step towards it, which is that people come into different forms of family life, that the state recognises everyone who freely wants to have a community with another, regardless of sexual relations in it, because obviously those who are more advocated by conservatives, the more conservative side that is constantly worrying about it, are almost obsessed with sex. This bill of law, it doesn't speak at all what sexual orientation is, speaks the terms of a life partnership. So they say that the persons of the same sex are said to have to give their consent freely and that the life partnership is concluded in front of the parent. There's nowhere to talk about sexual relations, how in the family or in this law. Therefore, those who deliberately do so think that little should be returned to the content of the law itself and to what is the essence of the community, which is helping, it is mutual respect and in that spirit raising children, and sexual relations is something that the state does not care about because decent people do not peer into the bed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72655	Thank you. This was my colleague Coleman's answer, but not his argument. Comrade Coleman, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72656	So unless, of course, you agree with your colleagues, but that's now, we're not going to get into that part right now. But you point to an interesting phenomenon that seems to me to be further highlighted. So in this debate one of these demeaning arguments is often used, in fact, against same-sex communities, that argument is what I care about who has sex and comes down to, in fact, this complex relationship between two people who want to build life together, build a family community together, spend their days together, comes down to just one small element of such a community that can or doesn't have to be important or less important, is not at all the point. But in fact, it also demeans and conceals this whole complexity of this relationship and exactly the point of this whole law, which is that it's not really a question of sexual orientation or sexual or gender identity at all. It is a question of the fact that two people who have developed among themselves what we usually call love, but whatever they call it, so who want to enter into one legal front of witnesses a regulated long-term relationship between the community, a family community that bears certain rights from the fact that living communities and each other support and also carries certain obligations from that same fact. And it's not really about sex, it's not about homo or heterosexuality. All this together is actually a question of whether we all have the same rights in this context or not, and that's the beginning and the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72657	Thank you. Dunja Špoljar, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72658	Dear counterpart Coleman, I would also like to join those who have praised your inspired debate and colleagues König before you, and I would continue to declare that for the good application of this law once the education of civil servants is in force, it will require all kinds of education for him to be really applicable, but I would also insist that our Croatian society also needs a basic education. So here I would underline the necessity of civil and health education, which means the necessity of teaching our children democracy, respect for human rights, gender equality, to teach them that all people are equal. And speaking of children, there was a thought here today that children from the same sex couples or communities should be protected from society. It started with that kindergarten and how he's gonna ask them who his mom is and who his dad is. I'd just say here that you don't need kids from same-sex communities to protect you from society, you have to protect all children from society and its influences. In 25 years of school with children and parents, I saw traditional and traditional Croatian parents whose children should be protected from alcoholism and addiction and from neglect and hunger after all. So let's think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72659	Thank you. That's my colleague Coleman's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72660	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Spoljar, I agree with you. We simply need to be aware of the real circumstances in which we live and cannot act beyond and beyond that, and there, fellow Reiner, has actually given us a very good and very clear warning. As for the education of people in the judiciary and in the state administration, two elements of that education are. One is the law itself and its provisions and implementing acts that will be adopted, so in which people should be trained and educated, and the other, of course, is this upgrade because people will meet with one new, a new form of community that has not existed in Croatia so far and has not been regulated in this way. As far as this broader context is concerned, civic education and health education are two more integrated projects of establishing a society of equality and a society of tolerance that this government has with all resistances, all obstacles very consistently and very solidly launched and I hope that this will lead to an end and no matter how the next elections go, if we do so remain a lasting positive legacy, one of the lasting positive heritage of both this coalition and this ruling majority for the Republic of Croatia. You mentioned kindergartens. In societies and countries with more experience and a longer tradition of multiculturality and diversity, one of the usual programs in kindergartens where there are children and various religions and various races and various ethnic backgrounds, and also different family situations is one of the usual parts of the programme to meet each other with their traditions, customs. So, children represent their origin, their family situation, their ethnicity, their language, everything that's a potential point of distinction and misunderstanding is actually at a very early age turning into a point of understanding, respect and upgrade of their own identity by the wealth of the identities of others around us. As much as it sounds like a phrase. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72661	Thank you. And the last replica, Iron Happy-Flego. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72662	Thank you very much. Comrade Coleman, if I understand you correctly, you've actually pleaded that we leave our own worldview for a little while, because the world's horizons are value systems that can't be reconciled very often. You are, if I understand you correctly, if you are not correct, you have pleaded me to take our job seriously and to try to come up with the best solutions for certain situations and certain intertwined interests. The job of the legislator is the business of cleverly inventing optimal solutions, not conflicting with each other different or conflicted worldly horizons. When we come to a smart solution then we actually came to the principle and that principle in the law sometimes we work on the statistical most common or more stringent situation. But the principle in this case I would point out has at least two components. One component of equality. And all cases and all people should be equal, but also all cases in this or that form of community. And I fully agree with you on that, and I hope that our minister and these remarks he heard today will take into account. And the other component that seems crucial to me is that actually the cleverly constructed principle is never descriptive, it's normative. The laws are norms and these norms must go ahead of the existing state, so before their time... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72663	Time. Comrade Coleman, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72664	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank my colleague Flego for you, too, and I can hardly repeat what you said, but I agree with you completely. However, the two elements that are here seem particularly important to me. One is the mind-thinking of a solution although I think that even the ideological and world-wide conflict within that process is allowed and an integral part of the process is actually in the political sphere, especially, but I agree that's exactly what I wanted to say. And that's why it seems to me that this relatively tolerated and dignified debate today is actually some sort of step forward in the mind-thinking of a solution if I haven't completely misread it all together. And secondly, a norm that goes ahead of its time. This seems absolutely crucial to me, the responsibility of the legislator is not only to register the existing situation. And that's today, I think it's someone today, now it's dawned on me. Someone already said that almost the same sentence today. The legislator's responsibility is to go one step further, the legislator's responsibility is to go one step further. I'm thinking there's a quote from Henry Ford that politically speaking is really not a person to quote, but there's a nice line. He once said that I asked people what they wanted, they'd say faster horses, so he's tough, he's as political as he is, but at the core of that sentence is exactly what you're talking about. The legislator has an obligation to look forward rather than just register the lowest common denominator applicable in a particular society, I fully agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72665	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the representative of the SDSS, Milorad Pupovac, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72666	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support this bill if, for no other reason, it is because one of the few laws that has come into this House which has been written in good language and one of the few laws behind it has documentation on how and how it has been adopted and which positions have been advocated and which have been disputed, which have been accepted and which have been rejected. And in this respect, since there have been a lot of words here about tolerance, dialogue itself shows how he was being brought and it is hardly possible that he could or should be objected that he was brought in a non-democratic way or under no democratic assumptions as we could hear this morning. Another thing I'd like to say, one general place that I'm going to formulate on a single proverb, better say the words of Spanish that say that mountains are always and become human! If we paraphrasise that Spanish saying, then we can say that sexual organs have always been and sexuality is created and sexuality develops and sexuality becomes. Thus, the hands may be different from that Bible scene, but the less the program is in the hands of how much the problem is in the apple and the apple is in one case the same in both men and women's hands both in men and men's hands and in women's and women's hands. The fact that certain cultures including our culture, so we like to boast of a Central European membership which unfortunately is not commendable in this respect but rather as in some other things that are not commendable, is not commendable in this matter either. Because the issue of relations with homosexuality in the history of humanity especially in certain cultures, especially in our culture and other Christian cultures, is one of the shameful pages of our history. The way I was referring to the appearance of homosexuality only at the beginning of the 20th century in the hospital that I once happened to be here seems to have already told me that the Croatian Parliament is the founder, which is there on the western entrance to the city, so the Vrabčan disease was treated as a psychological disorder. In some other cases, she was treated worse. So the issue of sex and sexuality is the issue of emancipation, not the issue of natural state, as is often the case here with individual advocates. Those who forget one important historical fact, which is that in such large cultures as Greece, Staragorska was one of the prominent and greatest philosophers of that time, he did not have to drink the hip because he proposed young boys but because he taught them ideas and values that caused the dominant beliefs and taught them how to be critical, how to be suspicious and not to submit to bad authority. With us here, no one would answer because the authorities, the authorities, the church should be unquestionable and this not only unquestionably, but some would say that it is good, that no one today has a monopoly on the worldview but that it has been discussed because, as it was not good that there was a monopoly on the worldview until the 90s, it's so not good that there was a worldview until recently, a monopoly on worldview. Now, some are complaining that this monopoly is getting a little out of their hands, understandable but unacceptable. And it's the state of affairs, not in terms of understanding the state, not in terms of understanding the government, not in terms of understanding the faith, not in terms of understanding the nation, nor in terms of understanding the sexuality, it can be a monopoly. There are no colleagues of Reiner here but I'm telling him who complained about someone wanting a monopoly over this thing, no, he doesn't, he doesn't, this is the result of a gruesome struggle throughout history including ours and it's not self-will or SDP or HNS, or IDS or any of us who supports this. This is the history of a new culture of sexuality that assumes tolerance. Until a short time ago, women had no right to vote, one of the world’s leading democracies until an even shorter time, dark people had no right to vote either. This also referred to partnership, the family status of people who are homosexual orientations. In this sense, what this law provides, and provides for the conditions under which the life partnership of same-sex or homosexuals is being concluded, legal effects, has a special effect on children and has a concern and sensitivity not according to tradition as it is said here in reason but also the fact that we still do not know enough about it. And every serious one will say that it is necessary for us to need a little more social knowledge and each other to do so, not just because of tradition, but because of the overall effects. And there's no fear of the negative consequences that he can bring. There is no reason to fear people that this will have worse effects than homosexual marriages or covert growing up in homosexual environments, and this should be a special subject of the hypocrisis that exists in our society. It's important that we protect our marriage, and let's not let that happen outside of marriage. Well, since we're holding on to a hypocritical thing, let's let go of what's going on outside of marriage. We protected marriage by a referendum, we protected it by the Constitution, so we let people pass this law that allows them a minimum of equality, and that it is not a hypocrisis, but an open attitude, a regulatory, a presentation as it is, because hypocrisis and democracy do not go together. Hypocrisis and rights don't go together, especially morality. The same is true when, in addition to what is regulated by taxes, pensions and health care and health rights are based on health care, property-based rights. And there's no one who's read this we can't see any reason for anyone's concern because it's not taking anything away from anyone or anyone in any way. On the contrary, only one group that has been stegmatized for centuries and represents the historical site of human societies as it's stegmatized. And those who call on tradition better not to be invited because we who know something about tradition know, of course, the tradition of ex-communication, the terrible ex-communication that represents the negative side of our great civilizations, but the negative side to disgust. Now allow me two things that on behalf of the club, and especially in my name, I have to say about today's debate. I'd very much like to have such a downed worker's rights as defending the rights of a homosexual group. I would very much like to have belonged to another political culture in which not only the rights of sexual, ethnic or other minorities would not represent a regular and unquestioned political agenda, but social rights, workers' equality would be equal to the character of equal status, and not so. Which means as good as it is that we're promoting these rights, which we're admitting is so bad that we're turning our heads on other rights. And not only do we turn our heads, but as we did yesterday, we make laws that produce inequality. That's not good. That this is not a good thing to see in Europe because it raises questions about what Europe has achieved, and this is a question of relations with migrants because it raises a question of attitude towards what Europe has achieved, and this is a question of relations with minorities. And for this reason, I would also like to remind you, let's not forget that, and for my respected HDZ colleagues who care about morality and values of marriage and fear amorals and endangerment of fundamental values we would like to say, we have more concerns when it comes to our tradition. The hate speech is too strong and we know who planted it and under what circumstances. And restoring that hate speech in conditions of fighting for political positions is dangerous. The same goes for intolerance to others, I've been here long enough to know that there are no more people who persecute other people with political messages from one side of the assembly to the other. But then it shouldn't even be from outside the constituency and political pay phone. And I would especially like to say that morality cannot be preserved with hypocrisis and with a hypocritical way of living, acting, and speaking. He can't. For this reason, we from the Club of the Independent Democratic Serb Party believe that this Law is a strong contribution to achieving the scope of human rights and minority rights in accordance with European conventions and in accordance with our Constitution. And we'll back him up. We also believe that we must not forget other components on which social equality depends, as is the issue of equality for those who work, as well as the issue of protection for those who work. And we must also not forget that the relationship with other ideas and other policies, other groups of us in the Republic of Croatia still very often represents a higher cause of hatred, a higher cause of confrontation than the reason for the dialogue that we have led in the Parliament today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72667	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Vice President Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72668	Dear colleague Pupovac, you said at the beginning of your speech, a man is born with defined sexual organs but sexuality is something that becomes later. And you're saying that this is not a matter of natural state and that this law represents a new culture of sexuality. On these grounds rests the entire upgrade of your speech, and that's why I'm reporting for replication. This law, by my deep conviction, has nothing to do with sexuality. He has nothing to do with the majority's relationship to the minority. I'm convinced that a man doesn't choose his sexual orientation, it's attached to him as the color of his eyes. As a man does not choose his nationality, nor does his religious belief because a Catholic is born in a Catholic house, a Buddhist in the house of Buddhists. That's why he can't be responsible or guilty. Well, as well, a man can't be either responsible or guilty for his sexual orientation. This is the question of how will we as a heterosexual majority and undoubtedly we are the majority of us treat the minority and they are an unequivocal minority. And that's all that matters in this law. And those who cannot answer that question positively are for discrimination no matter what excuse they had for it, no matter what they were calling for, they actually want to deny one minority the rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72669	Thank you, too. Answer me, Pupovac fellow.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72670	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, if you claim that this law has first order of business with the rights I will agree with you easily but if you wish to claim that marriage and partnership have nothing to do with sexuality may be that there is such a... But my experiences are different. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72671	Thank you. Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72672	Thank you very much, President. Well, you were actually talking about labeling homosexuals in the past, calling them kinky, said they were mental patients. But since 1970, somewhere in the year, based on scientific knowledge that has been obtained, of course, based on research, a consensus has been created in behavioral and social sciences, that homosexuality is a normal variant of human sexual orientation, and I think that's where you and I have agreed. Here is the World Health Organization, and in 1990 homosexuality threw homosexuality out of the list of mental illnesses. However, it says that the prejudices and discrimination of homosexuals surely have a negative effect on their psyche. And there's something else about Freud we all know here who Freud is and his psychoanalysis is, so I'm going to quote him somewhere, but I can't do it here in 1903 where he says he's firmly convinced that homosexuals shouldn't be treated like sick people because a different orientation is far from what we consider a disease. So he wonders whether those great thinkers, intellectuals at all times, will be branded sick. Sigmund Freud in 1903. It also tried to convert the development of homosexuality, developed homosexuality and certainly are, research has actually shown that nothing has been obtained there either. And let's imagine now if the opposite heterosexuals tried to convert, thank God it wasn't about that, it was never about that, never thinking about it, but we can think about what it feels like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72673	Thank you. My colleague Pupovac's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72674	Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72675	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Pupovac, we can agree on this, and I'm glad we share the fact that this is a question primarily of humanity, that this law is a question of human rights, so I would dare even say humanism, that one part of Croatian citizens should make possible those rights that we take for granted. Although you've pulled a good parallel, I must admit you've taken a little of my individual debate from me, but I'd like to point that out. Today there's a lot of mention of the worldview, a lot of mention of tradition just like you said. I would remind a little of what it was a tradition, which was a worldview. Let us remember not so long ago, some 300 years ago, it was more sacrilege to touch the human body, the sanctity of the human body, and then Erasmus Rotterdamski, a circle of people gathered around him began to chop the dead. It gave great knowledge and great progress to which today’s medicine owes a great deal, until then it was taboo. Let us remember what was before with a political decision, it was in the hands of a very narrow caste of nobility and then rich, wealthy, then exclusively men with property. Let us remember that Switzerland not long ago legalised women's rights to vote, to participate in democratic political processes. Let's also remember that not long ago people of other skin colors had no rights. Tradition doesn't rule out that we don't want to see, we don't want to hear that we don't want to change our society for the better, even as colleagues and colleagues have said for two people. If we've changed something for two for the better, we've made it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72676	Replication response, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72677	Dear colleague Hajdukovic, I find it difficult to add something to what you said when you list certain historical episodes or relationships to human rights and it is true that there are extremely dark and embarrassing sides in our history. As until recently homosexuality had no right to citizens in words, and in some of our environments it is not today, so it has been with certain groups of ethnic and religious ones. Until not long ago, people had no right to purchase property and had restrictions on ownership of property, had a limit on which marriages they could enter. I remember growing up in the Dalmatian middle, and I remember in the 1960s when there were obstacles to who she could marry, who she could marry, who she could marry, and I remember the family experience and the struggle of the young generation for freedom so Orthodox and Catholics could make a marriage, contrary to the old generation who opposed it because she was guarding marriages that were only one of those same faiths. It was a great battle, and then society and then the system were very successful in a short time. It didn't take my family long either, so thanks to that, about 50% of my members are on one side or the other.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72678	Thank you very much. Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72679	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your esteemed colleague, your debate has indeed been a very good philosophical debate. You started from antiquity, and what struck me a little bit when you mentioned that philosopher, and I graduated from V. High School, I grew up in Zagreb, I read a little, and you mentioned groups of these young boys he loved among other things and taught. Yeah, that's right. As you can see, on statues ancient all the organs of these statues are more or less juvenile organs. But then you went on to the worldview and you said the time had come to finally change the world's horizons and freedoms, sexuality and everything else, and we have to accept all this and I wondered if I had to accept that pedophile from Greece as well. I don't have to, I'm going to condemn it, but not because you called us from the HDZ Club, you called us morals, you called us a hypocrisis. Don't say that. It has nothing to do with Catholicism, it has nothing to do with Orthodoxism, it has nothing to do with Islam, Protestants, and I don't know who else to tell you. Because if we were to look at morality, who are you and me and all of us here to say there's a limit to morality? Do you think we can set that line to say that, we're moral, we're going to let gays get married, but that's why we're not going to let those Greek people make up, say. Who are we? Well, there must be in one society of borders, seas, and it's good that this limit from the fact that we had to know each other in the same families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72680	Thank you very much. Replication response, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72681	First of all, Socrates. In that sense, he was no exception in those times, nor were they boys. They were people who could participate in a philosophical discussion, which was philosophical, unlike mine, which is parliamentary. Second, his mention of him does not contribute to any pedophile. It would be better if you set another example from either Croatia or Ireland or America when it comes to pedophiles but not from philosophical circles but from slightly more closed circles. Those who are using an important history institute, which is the redemption of sins and confessions as a place to gather not for a philosophical debate but for confessional offices and other similar places to gather pedophilia, i.e. to spread pedophilia. Therefore, our conspiracy in this respect is not a conspiracy to have the terror of other species, but simply to have the right and to have the freedom and recognition of choice. Just as I said protection from those who are not yet able to make a choice. And there have been enough examples here today of how dangerous it is when societies are fossilized. It is not dangerous to keep traditions, but it is dangerous when tradition is fossilized and seeks to establish as a standard for man's life in every possible time including today. It's dangerous, and it has fossils.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72682	Thank you. Peja Grbin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72683	Thank you. Well, first of all, I'm going to say that there is a choice that we will always protect, which is the choice of a two-year-old business person who doesn't do what the law forbids. And we always have to protect that choice, and this thesis that you're bringing out here, it's the easiest thing to say is funny. Two grown-ups have the right to choose, and the state must respect and protect that choice. Now, I'd like to go back to the debate of my esteemed colleague, Pupovec. You've made me think a little bit about how a hundred years ago democracy existed in no more than 10 countries in the world, no more than 10 countries in the world. [[And who are you replicating now?]] In the rest of the world, defending democracy, fighting for it was dangerous, it was punishable. Today we take democracy into account, today we are surprised that someone a hundred years ago could advocate that only men have the right to vote or 150 years ago that he could advocate that a certain part of the population should be free and subject to others. I'm convinced that in a hundred years people will also talk with some laugh about how today we've even had to try to explain that these rights that are recognised by this law are something that is necessary, something that is good and something that does no harm to anyone. In a hundred years, as we today mean democracy all over the world, what we're up against today will be understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72684	Replication response, Milorad Pupovac. You don't want to? Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72685	Thank you very much. Comrade Pupovac, I return to the law and agree with you that this is one of those laws that is well written, a good language that should be commended. However, there is room, for example, in Article 42, I think there is a lot of room to do it. Where it's been said that partners live for a long time, I think that should be specified by second reading. But most of your exposure has actually been devoted to what man has been able to do throughout history, including a good reminder. I think we should remind ourselves right now in this debate about the persecution of homosexuals, about their being put into asylums, so mental hospitals or madhouses and declaring the sick, by telling people out of society. It's a terrible condemnation from society and in the middle where someone lives. However, I would like to remind you of one majority. Women are in the world most of them. Not so long ago when we look at the history of the human race of women being burned at the stakes, women without trial are liquidated just because someone pointed a finger at them. And that's the history of the human race. So I think it's very good and very important that you finally reminded us of something we're witnessing today and yesterday. Unfortunately, we'll probably do it tomorrow, and that's hate speech and intolerance. It's a spirit that when released, I talk about political space, but also about each other. Once released from the bottle, it is very difficult to return it, for the spirit rides like the riders of the apocalypse and looks for its own. The spirit of hatred, intolerance, disrespect for others once out of the bottle is difficult to return to. And that's what we need to take care of in this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72686	Replication response, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72687	Dear colleagues Kosor, if you go to any of the torture museums, and many European cities today have such museums the largest part of the torture props is located, located from the period of application of the S Communication provisions, one of the most significant codes accepted in civilization and very often towards women. And about what was happening towards homosexuality, there are, of course, studies, historical, significant, historically significant philosophical studies and the relationship and production of madness and produced diseases in psychiatric clinics only because homosexuality was recognized as psychopathic or even worse than that. As far as hate speech is concerned, if there's any reason why I'm in politics in Croatia, then that's one reason. There aren't many, but that's one reason. If there is one reason why my colleagues from the SDSS and I were in a coalition with HDZ, so many did not understand that coalition was to eradicate the root of hatred, intolerance in Croatian society or prepare it for European values or if nothing else for our values and when we see that it is in any way restoring then we express concern because we believe that what we have achieved and we have achieved a lot is not appreciated and destroyed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72688	Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72689	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Pupovac, I would refer to this last part of your speech and hate speech. The hate speech may be the worst weapon and the greatest force in the world. However, a colleague of Pupovac and you and I have long and life experience and political. Sometimes false information, misinformation and mistranslated things, ten times worse than hate speech. They produce a hate speech that is very difficult to stop. Croatia is already tired of such things without who they're talking about. And we have witnessed one fact that something that didn't happen wants to show that it happened and you want to, you're not going to do it with those that hit, which tang in a certain way will produce a hate speech at this or that moment, and the biggest danger of Croatia is the end of history, especially the ending of history for which more or less of what we are sitting here in this assembly we all remember and it can lead us to something devastating. I agree with you about our coalition. I don't think there's any way we can talk about respecting each other, disrespecting each other, at the end of a fight together for some things. However, I repeat the misrepresentation by claiming that something happened that didn't happen without being checked is far more dangerous than anything and that leads unfortunately to some things, some wrong steps that later very difficult to correct, and it's very difficult to correct precisely because of our painful history, everything that's happened, and that's why it's not good for this speaker or otherwise to use some things. Some colleagues from the SDP today used some things, which would have been if we from HDZ had responded for example to who was filling this, it would have led us to a story where we will never end and open our wounds again and we will again press Croatia and Croatian citizens with some time that we do not need because at this point we have a far more difficult burden and it is that people are struggling to survive.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72690	My colleague, please. There's still a lot of reports. The answer to the line by Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72691	Dear fellow Shuker, I really don't associate you with any of my least remembered hate speech, no matter how generous your performances in the Parliament could be any reason. I don't generalize anything in that sense, I'm talking about individuals, I'm talking about minorities, I'm talking about cases, and I'm talking about trends and unfortunately, that's what it is in the last year or two, one tone is being restored, one type of speech that we've been putting aside, and according to what you call red and according to what other types of minorities are called, maybe not your party, but some of them are partners of your party. Unfortunately, some now have a problem with achieving the degree of minority rights that we have built together. If I knew, it would be very useful to say that together we did everything you and we did and to hear it from your side and to say why we did it and what good we had. And as for the lie or absolutely if someone made a mistake here and I'm going to be the first to apologize to you, but the whole problem with our society is that we produce much, much more of what is not true than what is true. Unfortunately, both in the media and in our mythology, unfortunately, and this is a much bigger problem than the individual charges that we can have with each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72692	And Davor's Mlakar replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72693	Dear fellow Pupovac, we don't need Socrates, we don't need witches in the Middle Ages, it's enough to remember the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Socialist Republic who, in their criminal code, had the crime of anti-natural fornication back in the 80s not so long ago. Today we have come far beyond being prosecuted by people of different orientations. And that's where I would sign everything you said in your speech. However, it seems to me that one part of the debate was left behind or slept through because using some handsome figure you apostrophed the HDZ actually for hate speech. And today we've talked about this law that some agree with, some don't, some agree with the idea of being passed, not perhaps the form that it should look like. But if it bothered you, and you expect us to unanimously pass all the laws without critical reference to the texts offered to us and whatever your assessment of being a good language of this law, I will show you what is not good in this law, and that does not mean that I am fighting any minority, that I am trying to deny the right of anyone. But if we want to do something useful for society and individuals, let's do it together in the best, not the worst way possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72694	The answer to the line by Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72695	First, as far as the laws of the time of Yugoslavia of the Socialist Republic of Croatia are concerned, you are right in the longest period in the longest period of the country and that the government's relationship with homosexuality has been undemocratic and has been inhuman, as counterpart Hajdukovic here means. Yes, it is. Another equality has been secured, but there has been discrimination produced, and there has been a continuation of stigmatization, and no one can conceal it or should conceal it, but let's be fair and open when we talk about other phenomena as well. Let's be fair and say that there are social resistances here, that the whole story of the marriage referendum went in that direction to take away the right of the public. It's true, you can't say that you were... a component of that campaign but you were partly involved in it. Not you personally, because I am very happy to pollemize with you because you are one of the most respected polemists here in this House regardless of the differences in attitudes. And as for the argument, of course we'll face the argument, of course there are differences. Well, no one expects us all to have the same attitude about this. But what we're going to agree on is what we should agree on, is that there was a trend to establish and restore the monopoly on this question, which is that it can't be so regulated that this is too liberal, that we're going to let not know what kind of amoral, I don't know what kind of kind of like you called that the old laws say anti-natural fornication. It was a campaign. And in this respect, between that kind of monopoly and this kind of monopoly with a different ideological sign, there's no difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72696	Thank you very much. On behalf of Croatian Labourers' Club Branko Vukšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72697	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. It is fortunate that homophobia and homophobic societies were not effective in the repression of homosexuals, imagine what the world would look like today if it hadn't been for all those homosexual artists, musicians, painters, writers, scientists. We're richer for them, we're happier for them. I'll start where my colleague Pupovac stopped and said let alone luck that we were as liberal yesterday as we are liberal today. That yesterday we were so liberal to the Labour Act that we are today liberal to this law that we are discussing today the Life Partnership Act. And yesterday was about the minority. You know well how many Croatia has and how many workers there are, mainly how many workers there are in the real sector. They're a minority and they're the most endangered minority. So we've got a bunch of families at risk, but of course I won't talk about it. More speakers have said that we have smarter, hot topics than this topic today, that we have better things to do than discuss worldview or some ideological topics. But nothing is more important than human rights, nothing matters. We dropped a man, pushed him aside, tech. It's the only thing we do. The lightscreen also affects the economy, ideology affects the economy. The economy is not an exact science or discipline exact, it depends on the worldview, and it is very important to debate ideologically, and all those who say we will not ideologically lie. All of us are ideologies, let alone luck that we can listen for a moment when we are passing laws, when we are not sending political messages to our voters to adhere to what our esteemed colleague Flego said let us think that we would find a smart solution, to find rational solutions, to be our laws for all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia not only for our voters and not for our laws to be like our ideologies, but for us to be fair to all. To have as clever as Mr. Flego says, a cleverly constructed principle. Unfortunately, there is no or will be in the House. Because even the club Mr. Flego is from doesn't stick to that principle and it's very hard to stick to that principle. That's the ideal. Someone had almost cried before that there would soon be two million and some same - sex marriages in Croatia. These are the greatest delusions spoken of at the bar. Well, we're not gonna let it flood us. Please look at countries that have allowed same-sex marriages, no more same-sex marriages, no more injustices. And even one topic that is tripping these days is also legalized by so-called. Light drugs are less of these violations, less of a heavy drug addiction. So we turn the saw upside down. So in these societies, there are no fewer children in these countries. We're accessing here, although there weren't any acute themes but somehow we're shy, someone asked, tell me, it seems to me that it was a colleague Coleman, so let's make it clear what you really want. Are nomotechnical barriers so much that the law is rejected, they're not. The law is a step forward. The law is good,... He needs to fix it, he's making progress. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There was no respect for that 2003 Law, I should have, I agree to do a new one, we did it. This is the fault of two and a half governments, half of this government whether, half the mandate has passed, and the government that continued to rule the country after the government of Ivica Racan for 8 years. Today we're talking about different ones. And someone before said, we're all different and the right to diversity is one of the fundamental rights, diversity is one of the fundamental human rights. In spite of that, the difference is, throughout history, stegmatized and punished. In previous discussions, I find it unacceptable that the relationship with same-sex communities is expressed in the Life Partnership Act as a result of the totalitarian or Bolshevik, or communist mentality of the party ruling the Croatian or Croatian coalition. It's a total delusion. A delusion made out of ignorance, ignorance of history, ignorance of fact. All those who read the Solzhenicyn Archipelag Gulag or the impressive book Stalin "In the Court of the Red Emperor" met a piece, a piece of torture made by these systems and those despots. They met in those acts of testimony in revenge, of crimes committed by Bolsheviks against homosexuals. They killed them and filled them with gulags. And now it's suddenly the opposite of what this government is now doing, it's Bolshevism, it's got nothing to do with this, it's just to label. This law is not a Bolshevik law, a law that would be a Bolshevik law, it would be precisely in suppressing the rights of homosexual communities, a false comparison. Betterscheism in terms of relations with homosexuals was the same as Nazism and fascism, there were equals, brothers in distress, in crimes. So Bolsheviks, totalitarians, communists advocated when it comes to the gay population of the same or similar attitudes. If we advocate equality, then we agree that same-sex communities should not be discriminated against. He must not find hundreds of excuses for why we could impose discrimination on a small door after all. I agree with those colleagues who say, it's not my club's position, it's my attitude with those who say if we want equality then we need to adopt children, then it's equal. Let's talk about it, maybe this law won't pass and maybe that's the next step. "In the name of the family" which many parliamentary deputies helped before the referendum said, roughly, they swore that no one would deny the rights of homosexual couples, that they were not against homosexual couples, that they only wanted to be incorporated into the Constitution definition of what marriage is and nothing else. Still, it was a big deception, a step that now shifts to adopt this step towards adopting children which is more acceptable to me than to retaliating against homosexuals. There was talk here about surrogate mothers, surrogate mothers, we're hypocritical. I know a couple, we all know him because it's been publicly published that was used by a surrogate mother, it's been said in the media, so I know. It's a declarative, distinctly traditional Catholic marriage. Both men and women are practicing believers but I haven't seen a single traditionalist or conservative stand up against it and said it was, it's fake. Why? It's a member of their society. So that's where we're hypocritical. I haven't seen a single reaction, and I believe neither have you. I know an artistic gay couple who gave birth to two kids and these two kids, none of them gay. None of them, they're very famous, they're very esteemed, they're esteemed, they're esteemed, they're moral people. There are no rules. And let's not plant, let's not be false, worried, worried about children who are in homosexual marriages. The other thing is, did we scream here falling apart marriages of traditionalists, conservatives, every third marriage is in crisis and those church marriages. What's the reason? There are fewer children, which is why? It's the homosexual couples, the homosexuals, the ones who want to get involved, who want to legalize relationships. Someone here mentioned, it seems to me that my colleague Kosor was talking about, we're not worried about marriages where there's a lot of violence, where children are exposed to this violence, where children live in hell, where women live in hell, where women are forced into shelters while a man who's a bully stays in an apartment or in a house. That's not what we're worried about. We're not moral in that, we don't raise a strong voice, we don't fight it. Yes, we need to protect the children, the children from us, from the elderly, from hypocrites. We need to protect the children. I haven't seen, I have friends who are also in relationships, same-sex relationships, I have friends who have children homosexuals are their children. They're not homosexuals, they're heterosexuals, their children are, someone mentioned earlier but no one reacted that they're more uneducated children, I don't know what kind of children they're not. All I know is more educated children than others, which I don't underestimate the others. And in the end, the law itself has already been told enough. So this law will ensure the general rights and obligations, the maintenance within the community, the property relations of life partners will be resolved, inheritance, tax status of the life partnership,... health care etc. Because this law that we had so far, the only thing he regulated was the right to mutual restraint and the right to acquire common property. That's the only thing he regulated, and that law was supposed to change. And as for when we talked about children, the bill contains two possible models of childcare. The first model is parental care, following parental care provisions according to the Family Law proposal, and the second model introduces the partner care institute. Partner care also does not allow the child to be adopted. And this is for sure, whoever reads the law sees that there's no small door, no chimney, no window, no attic window, no possibility of adopting children in same-sex communities. But I'm saying I'm more concerned about hypocrisy, actually this one world-wide resistance to people who are different and people who would sort their lives differently. It's a pain in our society. Homosexuals and homosexual couples in Croatia are discriminated against as they are, I will return to the very beginning of the debate, such as the discriminated workers. And I would ask the council majority to think carefully about not having two standards according to two different laws. Have the standard you have today and according to the Labour Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72698	And now we're going to move on to replicas. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72699	A colleague when you particularly apostrophe and pointed out that this is a very dangerous thesis I fully agree with, when one of our colleagues said that here we have much more important topics today than to discuss this. The fact is that many people and not only in our lives with a tendency, but even in the heart of Europe rejoice precisely because of the economic crisis are diminishing many human rights and that is something that we as a country in the European Union can talk about with the right. And what happens today in Spain so it doesn't happen tomorrow in Croatia where abortion is banned. Similarly, when a colleague says this is not the subject we are discussing, you on the other hand are quite right to say that the question of human rights and the spread of human rights is that time is always, and especially in times of crisis as a dam and as a solution to solving these problems because, as the Bible says, a man does not live on bread alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72700	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72701	Dear colleagues, we agree, should only repeat human rights are the most important rights, they are never.... I remember in the wartime of the '90s when they were talking, so we're not going to think about democracy now, and then it wasn't about democracy, it was thought about how to rob Croatia. Why there was a crisis in Europe and the world, because there was a crisis, first of all. What is the biggest problem of unemployment in Europe? Well, all the dirty industry, one part of the industry and the other industry has been moved to where the cheaper labour force is. In Europe, European citizens or workers would have had jobs if they hadn't run capitalists for capital, or in Croatia we would have had jobs if everything hadn't been destroyed, if production hadn't been destroyed, which is a moral crisis, and today we're talking about morality. Today we're talking about this law that's one of the preconditions that we're talking about equality, I'm just saying... equality between everyone and the workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72702	Igor Coleman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72703	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Vuksic, I sign everything you said, except for the part where you criticize our government, but I can't do it in function. But two things that seem to me to be key, ideology and human rights. You said ideology was important. We have, among other things, a trend in Croatian politics that ideology has begun to be considered and the world's horizon has started to consider something almost dirty, almost something that can't be mentioned, and you're just right, so we don't really know who we are and what we are, or the people who are watching us, who should vote for us can know who we are and what we are in the medium and long term will be our decisions and our policies without recognizable ideology. In the economy, let's say, of course, the Social Democrats have one story, the economics, the socialists the other, the conservatives of the third, the liberals of the fourth. But let's say we can agree. I consider myself a left-wing liberal. We are today developing liberal ideology to call it that we are fully aware that the greatest threat to individual freedom in society are huge companies, huge employers who are stronger than states, who are stronger than unions, who are stronger than regulations, who are stronger than anything. And in that sense, for example, we can get along much faster and easier than a man could say at first sight. Another thing: human rights. Of course human rights are the most important story. That state which, and that society which allows a violation of the right on one basis, allows for a violation of the right and on another basis, i.e. to turn that society and that state which does not allow a violation of the right on one basis in such a state, in such a society will surely and in breach of the right, for example, on the basis that workers are far less possible, much more difficult and much less tolerance and permeability for such infringements of the right. And in that sense, you're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72704	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72705	Dear colleague, when I say I'm a Laburist, I say my ideological definition, my ideological identity card. As a HDZ member or a member of the SDP says, we are recognizable by that, these are our ideologies. It's just that today is very popular especially when new parties are founded, so I say we won't slave with ideology. But we'll be capitalists. Now I think! It's a basic misunderstanding. And now if our commentators were to interpret that it's actually the biggest scam to say that it's not, that there's no ideology and it wants to grab as much capital as possible then it would be much better. But these ideologists too, capitalists, not ideologists, capitalists hold those media, so you can't expect those comments. And it's very wrong when the Social Democrats are now there's another grudge compared to the German model. The German model is a neoliberal model and a relationship to workers. We need to build our own model, and we can't even compare with Germany. With Angela Merkel being better neoliberal than Milanovic neoliberal. That's the thing. That's a confession to make. Because Mr. Milanovic himself said he didn't say neoliberal, he said he was a liberal, that he wasn't a socialist. But I didn't make it up, I read it, and it didn't deny it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72706	Melita Mulic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72707	Thank you. My colleague Vuksic, I personally have been distracted by two things in your presentation on behalf of the club, although we are actually secular and we are much closer. And I'll be precise what bothered me? The same thing bothered me with my colleague Pupovac, although I did not raise a bat at the time, which is actually a comparison between this law and the Labour Act, i.e. you also talked about workers as in the minority in Croatia. I actually think that a human-right discourse, even though I know that even most of the Croatian public could not agree with me, should not lead to us making priorities. Because I think that when it comes to this law, it really is about the fundamental human rights of a particular minority community. And the other thing that bothered me, even though I know your intensity wasn't bad, but I think we need to be very careful when we use a particular discourse. I think you wanted to replicate to Simunovic about how the number of same-sex communities will increase, so you said that every time we legalise some activity, there is a reduction. You said I was turning the saw upside down. I still wouldn't want it to go away from here either thought or perceived that it was some kind of insufferable behavior that needed to be sanctioned, so here's why we're legalizing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72708	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72709	He says about this last one we got the wrong idea, maybe it's my fault, I need to take a look, maybe I got it all wrong, and I totally agree with you. And now you're distracted by this comparison, and so am I. If I were you, I'd be just as distracted by the comparison I made. Because you said we were talking about fundamental human rights today. The most fundamental human right is the right to work, there is no fundamental right. There are other arches set up there than they are today, a relationship. I'm not saying that these two laws are the same, they're different laws, different matter, we're discussing different laws. I'm just saying that you haven't applied the same relationship to that, and maybe you will. Besides, there's two readings, and the debates are still with the unions. I believe you'll give it up a little bit, you little unions, and it'll find it, it won't mean any tension. Because I'm against the tension of being a society constantly under tension in this crisis and that I need to get out on the streets. I'm more concerned with getting rid of the table and trying to find a way out of this situation that certainly doesn't suit anyone, and no foreigner in Croatia is. But this is the fundamental human right that we're discussing today, and what you're in, I wasn't in the assembly yesterday, which you discussed yesterday. So, yes, and there were two relationships, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72710	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72711	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, first I'm going to correct you, and this is what I'm really sorry that you said in your debate, that in the time of the Homeland War, it was thought how to rob Croatia. A colleague of Vuksic, it is offensive indeed for all Croatian defenders who had in their heart not to rob Croatia but to defend Croatia. So much for that. Those who thought to rob should be punished. Now something else. Today, we are really discussing a law that I personally think was a law in 2003 that could perhaps have been arranged a little bit and could have been a good one. Personally, I think the most important thing about this Law to prevent discrimination in both its worldview and its morals let's say to the homes is that I would never think of anyone, to discriminate on anyone. But what offends me is that I am, in any case, also sex-oriented, I would be offended today because they would not say that to most people, but lead it is a hypocrisis, a protection of homosexuals, same-sex communities, we are not allowed to ask them, such a concern is a terrible one, and believe me, there are those who have this same problem, this same problem, or that we are dealing with here today, we are one against, I don't know what and the other who defends all this and wants to prove their guardian angels a while ago, maybe they didn't want to be in touch either. That's the defense of homosexuality on demand because today everyone who holds on to themselves in some hoh society, in a nobles society, must have at least one gay friend. That's not at all, so a lesbian friend doesn't have to be, but a gay friend has to be, to see that's a real hypocrisis to me. So let's talk about the law, why it needs to be good, why it doesn't have to be good.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72712	I have to warn you every time you're out of time. Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72713	Excuse me, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72714	My colleague twilight got carried away, quite logically. First of all, I'm not a guardian angel and I don't introduce myself to an angel guard and I'm moving and I'm moving among people in which I've completely passed half the world with people who are theater, with opera, with ballet, etc., and I don't need to explain anything further. I contact them, I have friends with them, and they're all beautiful people and beautiful people. I have much better experience with them than with friends heterosexuals so you know but what you said wasn't meant, it wasn't thought, it was pillaging, so I didn't mean the lock, the defenders for God's sake, so the defenders forged the slogan, some bullet to some property, during the war, while they were fighting for that time they were selling to people, the rest of them know how much one of your close HDZ factories got under control, and he said if I stopped, it's like riding a bike. Remember so we haven't forgotten, I've written as a journalist about all this, I've got you files, files, texts and texts, thousands of texts that I've written about, no, no, I'm not saying anything, if it wasn't such a bad opposition wouldn't have happened to you, so I know. I've often said it was sister parties. Now, don't drag yourself into it if I was thinking about the defenders, the defenders are the ones who were guarding but unfortunately they couldn't keep it, they were fighting in the battlefield.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72715	Please, when you're talking, it's wrong for you to throw someone out of the bench and say he's interrupting, don't disturb anyone who talks, who has a word. Ante Sanader replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72716	Thank you. Mr. Vuksic, I absolutely agree with you. There's nothing more important than protecting human rights, absolutely anyone who doesn't think so, I think you should see what's wrong with him. You found fine examples for surrogate mothers, some Catholics who even have surrogate mothers, you found great examples for gay couple, you know that they have children, that these children are beautiful, fantastic... only unfortunately most tragic you treated the referendum, so this referendum that only asked to be put in place that the provision of marriage is a community of men and women, you say that's a fraud. They cheated afterwards; they are a fraud. 65.87% of the people in that referendum were in favour, so it turns out that most of them, they could be minorities, they didn't know, the referendum was never known, they don't know the outcome of the referendum, but why they're the only negative ones, so let's not spit on them for that protection of human rights, let's not consider them as some bad guys, so that's some thinking, some 65% of the people of this country. Why do you find all the positive and good examples of all these categories that I've cited, and then focus on taking care of children is false morality, so why don't you let someone have an opinion that maybe it was or think it would be good for a child to have a mother as a mother is some symbol, good, sanctity and all that can be desired, so if someone thinks it's not normal that a child doesn't have a mother, why would they find something black, let's protect human rights and those who think maybe the mother is important, that it's nice to have a mother in life, why watch it right now black, right now it's fake morality, it's a little bit weird.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72717	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72718	Dear fellow Sanader, you didn't listen to my debate, you really think I said what you said, I didn't say it, I didn't say it was 60 and some percent of the people that they cheated on, you, those who organized them, because they said it was just a definition of marriage being put in their mouths. However, they later began to interpret that now the fraud is this law because there is a definition of marriage in the Constitution, not this 65%, and don't put in my mouth what I said, those 65% of the honest people who went there, voted to enter the Croatian Constitution for the definition of marriage, the same definition that is in the Family Law. And the opponents said, "You shouldn't when it's in the Family Law," they said, "let it be in the Constitution." Mrs Markic spoke of it, that it was not, that it was a lie, that they had any rights to that definition stalled, after it was for, it was pure manipulation, all of a sudden we were against this, we are not going to do this law, etc. That's because the problem, so don't give God 65%. People have the right to their own opinion, they went to the polls, and that's how they chose. You either misread me or misread me, childcare is a false morale, so it's not, to take care of children, so I take care of my child, and I care about my grandson, but I worry too much about the children of those who, those children who are in homosexual marriages, or in some relationships whose parents in gay relationships are now purer now care about how they're being raised, and that they haven't analysed who these people are, why I've been telling these examples, I've been saying, I'm defending and probably there are mistakes, there are bad couples of homosexuals, absolutely, they're not pure and we're heterosexuals and we're pure and they're either wrong. So I have other examples, but no, not all evil in homosexualism. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72719	Thank you very much. Tomislav Jagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72720	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Vuksic, so let me step away from the legal framework of this law, to mention perhaps something, I don't know if it's said today, one of the great delusions of man is that he thinks he can control his emotions. Emotions are very difficult to control, to mention love that not only recognised human existence but also human essences. Of course I agree with you, I think I read it from your debate that marriage is not protected by the fact that this regulation entered the Constitution, marriage is much more than that, and in that sense it is my replica, it may have bothered me, you have now explained it a little in this past replica when you were talking about cleaners. I'm one of those people who's in church marriage, I don't think I'm a cleaner, I think I'm an average man. I don't think it's good to create tensions between a church marriage, a marriage that isn't church, an extramarital community, a same sex community, because when we get it all together in the end, we're all in the same place, we've decided to live together. I honestly wish that society had matured, that same-sex communities could adopt children, that I could raise them, that priests could raise children, that they could get that possibility, I think it's the most beautiful thing a man can experience in life, but it's also a great responsibility, and in that sense I think that such an approach to creating a conflict, I'm sorry if I misunderstood you, but so it seemed unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72721	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72722	I'm not surprised I'm misunderstood. I'm often misunderstood. It's not me, tension against church, I'm not church-married, I have reason not to, my belief is like that. But I don't condemn those who are, they're my friends, most of my friends are married and it's never a topic, it's their personal choice. It's just like asking how much they earn or asking a religion and asking, I mean those are rude questions that, I'm not talking about, I'm saying that marriages and those in church are falling apart, and you know that church marriage, they say to death, he binds us to death, until death do us part. That's what I'm talking about. It means there's something wrong with society. I don't think that's why it's falling apart because they made it in church, no, God forbid. But church, so society is wrong, we're not... we're not worth something, some of our moral postulates aren't worth it, and we know the church doctrine that is. And often these people swear to the very postulates taught by the church, and they step on them, and I say that hypocrisy, that's what those other, atheists, no atheists are fair, and the believers are dishonest. Or on the contrary, there are no rules, I was just saying that every third marriage is falling apart, and so are those marriages that are made in church, when you say for the rest of your life.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72723	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72724	Thank you very much. My colleague Vuksic, you mentioned ideologies, of course I agree with you, ideologies are important, absolutely, but the problem is that often many promote one ideology, but actually do something else, so, and then of course depending on whether they are in power or in opposition, there are also ideologies often modified. So that's something we need to talk about openly. I agree with you that after our marriage, the definition of marriage in the Constitution, I talked about it, and then in the debate in the Assembly, no unhappy family has become happier, definitely no poorer has become richer and that is a fact, and that is why no one should naturally feel threatened when it comes to these facts. However, I would like to mention something about the law itself, and I would like to propose to the promoters, or the minister, to consider Article 42, namely, you have also spoken about child care so far. Here this partnership, the life partnership, is idealized because it is determined precisely in this article that after the end of the life partnership in which the child lived, this child has the right, or partner has the right to contact. But the question arises, the child has parents, so the father and mother who don't live together, has a former partner or partner, father or mother to be in contact with, we know that otherwise these contacts with children after divorce can be traumatic, so there's a lot of evil going on. Think of a relatively recent murder in Nazar, therefore it should be done because it can happen that when this partnership is broken that there is then an ex-partner and another ex-partner because I assume that a father or mother will enter into a new relationship, biological parents, and then it can eventually be, if everyone has the right to contact with the child, there really is a trauma. That's what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72725	Thank you very much. Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72726	Dear colleague Kosor, I agree completely. This law should be completed,... one step forward, Mr. Minister said he would respect all our remarks, all who, regardless of which came from the ranks and members of the Kukurik coalition were giving objections, giving the body and opposition. Also, what you said, ideologies are important, the ideologies of one are promoted when you are in opposition, when you are able to behave in power, first that some other ideologies, as I think now is the case and what you have also pointed out, I have talked about it in my presentation and that the definition of marriage in the Constitution has not made anyone happy and has not saved any marriage. It was a purely political game to which it has the right, to which those who organised it have the right because they animated people, people went out, citizens of the Republic of Croatia went out to a referendum, they said that this definition should be in the Constitution, however, nobody understood or the essence was that, very clumsyly, the Kukuriku coalition reacted to this right of people and people often came out of spite and I think it was also a referendum against this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72727	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72728	You reminded us that the representatives of the citizens' initiative On behalf of the family before the referendum on the constitutional decree of marriage that they swore, stressed that the referendum is limited exclusively to the definition of marriage, that in no case was it intended to limit the rights of the LGBT population. However, on the wings of the referendum victory, the initiative was quickly revealed among other things. And just by being very harshly derailed, not some of the provisions of the Life Partnership Act most of all on those that allow the same-sex partner to take care of the child along with parents, and in the event of the death of parents and lasting care of the child. I guess it's clear to all of us because it was clear to us then, so we weren't naive, we weren't fooling ourselves that it wasn't just about the definition, it was about the contents of the referendum. Our people would say that while he's cheating, then he's cheating on his sugar, and then he's fighting with a whip. So the initiative goes much further than the definition of marriage and the ultimate goal is indeed now, as counterpart Milinovic said a few hours ago, blow on the cold and we will say that the aim of this referendum is actually to limit the rights of the LGBT population. And that's why the referendum was really a manipulation of the citizens. And secondly, you said that the famous homosexual couple who made two beautiful children and none of them were gay orientations. On the other hand, homosexuals are always born into heterosexual relationships, and it is fortunate that it is biological legality because it would likely try to manipulate it. So the homosexual orientation is not genetically defined because it cannot reproduce and cannot transmit its genes no matter what they are to the next generation or population as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72729	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72730	Most of all, we agree, but some things need to be repeated to be heard. Yes, the Association on behalf of the family spoke of that their intensity is exclusively, you have at least dozens of statements by the leader on behalf of the marriage or activists that it refers solely to the definition of marriage, that they want it to be a constitutional category although they couldn't explain why. However, I wonder who the life partnership bothers? Who is the same-sex community jeopardizing? Who's being threatened by homosexuals? I can't understand people who watch the processions when gay parades and when they start yelling and throwing rocks at them or what's the unhappiness that happened in Split that embarrassed us all over the world, who's bothered by it? What are these people afraid of? It's absolutely certain that when someone said that it is necessary to educate public officials that such people should be educated, that people who are afraid should be talked to them, that meetings should be organised, that they should be clarified because perhaps they are, I don't know, not medical professions, homophobia is also a disease.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72731	Gordana Sobol, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72732	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would just like to support that part of your presentation where you spoke about children growing up in same-sex communities and prejudices that exist in society as well as false concerns about what will happen to those children. There's a series of research in the world, most of it was done in America, we could recite the results of these research by tomorrow, but I'm going to mention one thing. When one meta-analysis was performed at the University of Michigan, one statistical process was to compare and compare the results from 19 different studies where 564 same-sex families were compared with 641 heterosexual families, and the average number of children involved in the survey was 10.5 years. There were 6 different criteria, 5 criteria did not give significant differences in both sex and heterosexual families, and imagine the only difference was shown in the quality of the relationship between children and parents, with this relationship being assessed better in the same-sex families. How is that explained? Taking into account all the challenges that such families face around the world, it is understandable that same - sex partners are working harder as parents to provide their children with understanding and support and are actually perceptive of a more quality relationship between children and parents. In all other aspects of children from heterosexual and same-sex communities did not differ in both cognitive and emotional development and adoption of gender roles and gender identity as well as in their sexual preferences. These are the research they've done, they're being conducted. Today, a major long-term study is being conducted, but this may be an opportunity later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72733	Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72734	Dear fellow Sobol, we agree and what I say should be supported in these efforts to deprive ourselves of the society of excessive homophobia. What you're saying is all prejudice. People just think if they're parents or if they're people in the same sex community with kids, they'll also become homosexuals. I don't know any couple who have kids and his kids are gay. They're all heterosexuals. And what you've been saying, these researches, and they're all in beautiful relationships with each other. I can't convince these relationships, and that's when someone asked how many moms dads and how many dads have, and when all that cross-references, and all these people get together on the pile, they're often kids more satisfied than we think.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72735	We're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague of Domagoj Hajduković.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72736	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Perhaps a little over two years ago, I began a talk at this High House with a joyful recall from the Bible of hallelujah, and I would begin this debate with that same appeal. The first time I used it and said hallelujah was because of the right of speech and freedom of speech about the Republic of Croatia. This time it is hallelujah because of human rights in the Republic of Croatia. In my opinion, this legal proposal is a major step in both human rights and the rights of the same-sex sexual orientation. I will give a brief summary of actually the chronology that Croatia has been legally trying to regulate this issue. Namely, the Law on Same-Sex Communities was passed in 2003. But also NGOs dealing with this problem, and I believe many lawyers will say that the law at the time, the legal solution at the time, is extremely lacking because it does not give any practical right during the life of the community, but the rights to the maintenance and division of the common property can result in or consume only after the breakup of the relationship. So for some reason, either natural, or subjective. In other words, the rights that were then given to persons of same sex sexual orientation were minimal. For Croatia at the time, I think everything Croatian society could have accepted. Times have changed, it's been over 10 years, it's a new time. The new life partnership legislation proposes to regulate the institution on life partnership and concluded in front of the state body and registered in the register managed by the parent offices, therefore, by this law. Then, the law seeks to cover the legal effects of the same-sex community that would relate to the informal same-sex community and regulate child-related relations if they live in a family community of the same-sex partner, and I repeat this again, first and foremost, to the protection of the child. The obligation is the Republic of Croatia and international and I would dare say a moral obligation, the human obligation of all of us sitting in this high house to regulate this issue. Because, as has been said in the debates before me and Mr. Minister mentioned, the European Court of Human Rights has said several times explicitly that all Member States are obliged to provide persons of same sex sexual orientation with equal dignity in the consumption of their family rights and the rights of common life. It is a discretionary right of every Member State to arrange it in the way it wants. Whether it will be called marriage, whether it will have the right to adopt children or not, whether it is equal to or not in all segments. In European countries, i.e. European Union countries, there is a different practice of solving this problem. About that, too, something has already been said, and I'm going to try to make this as short as possible. In fact, if we are talking about the rights of LGBT persons of the Netherlands, Portugal and Spain, all members of the European Union are countries where the legal status of same-sex marriage is identical to civil marriage. And why are we saying this? For one very simple reason. In fact, the Netherlands has a reputation for a very liberal and open country, but Portugal and Spain are Catholic countries. Catholic countries in the light of the world would say very similar to Croatia. And they decided to do exactly this kind of approach. I'm just going to take an example of Spain. Spain is otherwise the third country in the world to approve the conclusion of marriages that can be joined by same-sex persons in 2005. In June 2005, this law came into force. Portugal is also a Catholic country, a small Catholic country that can almost be compared to Croatia, which has decided on the same step. Since then, some 4.5 thousand marriages have been made in Spain that have entered the same sex. But what's interesting is the fact that not all of them are Spanish. In fact, the Spanish law gives the right to all persons who have legal residence in the area of Spain, i.e. to all citizens of the European Union and who reside in the area of Spain to marry regardless of the sex of the person with whom they enter. A Spanish citizen is allowed to marry a person who does not have Spanish citizenship, so whether or not the country recognises the same-sex partnership. There is already a lot of talk about what will happen if this couple decides to live in Croatia at one time and Croatia does not have legislation that guarantees at least a basic recognition of the dignity of personal life, or family life of this community. The Croatian proposal is a compromise, the minister also said, it is a compromise that wants to protect the institution of marriage on the one hand and yet give everything, almost all the benefits of marriage and persons who are both sexual orientations. I must admit that at the beginning of the debate, I was an advocate of the idea that life partnership should be opened to people of heterosexual sexual orientation. However, I received explanations that satisfied me and therefore said that such a legal solution is in the service of protecting my marriage. Because there are couples who simply don’t want to get married, it actually weakens the institution of marriage, and in some ways the extramarital community is evenly equalized with the informal life union. It is a reflection of Croatian society, which is the growth of that reconciliation I would say or the attempt to compromise all political spectrum, different worlds, but I say again and again and constantly stress we must bear in mind that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia should be guaranteed rights and the minimum right to a decent and private life. Why is that human rights? Well, that's human rights, mentioned before, I mentioned in my discussions just because these people don't have a choice, they don't have a choice in terms of whether they want to love, so they don't want to choose whether they want to love the same sex, that's genetic evidence, so it's proven that it's simply genetically conditioned. And that's exactly why they need to be able to do this. Can anyone convince me that if someone could choose to be persecuted, convicted, out of society for choosing something, and chose to love the same sex. These are all things, dear colleagues and colleagues, which many of us take for granted. Marriage is also not the same as family. It was tried on several occasions to express that thesis in this debate. Marriage isn't the same as family. Marriage as an institution is protected by both the Croatian Constitution and the Family Law and will not change as I said, but marriage is not a family. There are single parents, there are children raised by grandparents, there are children raised by foster parents, there are children raised by the same sex. Our society is and unfortunately there is no exception to Croatia, prepared long before condemning something but trying to understand it. It's our reality, it's the reality of human society in general. But all of us, like me, hope for a moral person, as a humanist, have an obligation to act educationally and spread sensitivity to this problem. We have a moral obligation to talk about tolerance, talk about respecting different ones, about accepting diversity because it is already mentioned, our differences are our wealth, whether it's sexual orientation, nationality, linguistic, religious or any other. A lot of light was mentioned, but as I've said to the replicas before, the light is changing and let me and end up with one person I greatly appreciate. It's a great human rights activist Martin Luther King, an African-American, black man who fought for the rights of black people in the United States. 1963. Martin Luther King gave a famous speech that I believe you all know, "I have a dream," I have a dream, I dream. Let me paraphrasise it, and I dream, I dream of Croatia in which it will not matter if you love the same person but that you love her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72737	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72738	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow, you said this very nicely in the end, and I will read it to you from the still applicable law of Article 2. The same-sex community within the meaning of this law is the two non-marriage and non-marriage and non-marriage community, which lasts at least three years and is based on the principles of equality of partners, mutual respect and assistance and emotional commitment of partners, which I am not really talking about in this proposal anywhere about this emotional bond of partners. And you see colleague Hajdukovic, this is the 2003 law. I don't understand why no homosexual couple has decided to make one of these same-sex communities. I don't mind. What's in my worldview, and I mean most of us, not most of us, but all of us, is an absolute struggle against every kind of violence, discrimination. Well, that's how we were raised, so it's ours not only worldly but human belief. I speak for us here because I know that there are really people who don't behave even humanly, and I have to say even animally because some animals behave much better than humans, so I don't know why such praises. What bothers me personally in this matter is that this bill is discriminatory, so it has all the elements of discrimination, but what bothers me is that it doesn't care about children's rights, children's rights. Well, all those tests that were done were done in a small population. Life is one thing, fellow Sobol, and quite another is the reality and environment in which these children grow up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72739	And you're out of time. Thank you. Replication response, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72740	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues, the same-sex communities don't come together, they prove themselves later just so they can consume these rights guaranteed by law. In fact, you mentioned how they were defined in the law. Well, it's assumed that one who wants to enter the community of life, whether it's called marriage or a community of life, that he loves and respects and that he's emotionally bound. And in Family Law, the definition of marriage, I'll paraphrasise it, I don't know if I'm going to quote from word to word, Article 5 tells you that marriage is a legally arranged community of men and women, does not elaborate on them being respected, appreciated, and loved because they do, and they do. Discrimination every one is absolutely a conviction, but I don't see who exactly this law discriminates against, who is threatened by it. It's the only thing we give right to the people they've never had before. ... My colleagues, it's a rudimentary way of exercising their rights. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This is something much more active, much better. Besides, when you ask them themselves, they agree. And child protection, I think it's been repeated so many times here that it's no longer necessary to repeat, child protection absolutely, and that's why all those arguments that I said are standing in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72741	My colleague Mirela Holly, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72742	Thank you, Vice President. So at the very beginning of the presentation, I would like to say that I will support this bill in the first reading because the adoption of this law will reduce discrimination against same-sex communities, and they are in Croatian society an extremely discriminated minority group. I don't think this proposal is ideal, it's my impression that he still lacks courage and that this bill was meant to go to the end, not stand somewhere in the middle. The fact is that this law will enable same-sex communities to enter into partnerships where they will enjoy a similar range of rights as marriages and thus be equal than they are now to heterosexual couples. But despite the principled political definition of the ruling majority that speaks of equality between marriages, extramaritals and same-sex communities, what is actually visible in the end and from this law, the bill does not exist. Discrimination of extramarital communities compared to marriages within the scope of law, I have already spoken to children in the mornings, and similar inequality is in the treatment of same-sex communities compared to marriages. When we talk about human rights, when we talk about discrimination, I want to remind you of the fact that human rights are human rights and that there is absolutely no difference between discrimination on gender or on race, religion, nation, sex, social status or any other different character. We either respect human rights and consistently implement the principle of equality before laws and institutions, or we do not actually respect human rights. We can't respect the rights of some minority groups a little bit. As regards respect for human rights, we must not allow political calculation and selective approach, because that is how we create additional injustices. We cannot treat the rights of some minorities according to the principle of a blocked nose, so we are willing to allow certain segments of the rights of those groups if and when we find it convenient. In this sense, the only true, fair solution would be to solve this matter within the framework of the Family Law because the family is not a community of men, women and their children but is the family of those communities that bind the bonds of love, loyalty and respect and common residence, housing in one place as the only origin of the word speaks. In that sense, I hope that this law will be only the first step towards the integration of this matter into the Family Law and that will be a true expression of respect for human rights. I would refer to certain shortcomings in this proposal. At the beginning of the very name of the law which suggests a different concept, i.e. a different content of the law. In fact, this law is not the Law on Living Communities because in this case it would cover all variations of life communities that are not married, but are a family, which can be a relationship between gays or lesbians. So, the same sex relationship of a sexual omen but can be the same sex community that is not a sexual omen, for example, a friend, a relative, or something like that. Or a community of heterosexual couples who, for their own reasons, do not want to make a marriage union. So if this law wants to cover all these cases, then it is indeed the Life Partnership Act. If we want to cover only the area of the same-sex communities, then this Law should be called the Law on Same-Sex Communities. At this point, the name of the law does not correspond to its contents. In this regard, I also support the Association "Zagreb comes" which, in its comment on the draft Life Partnership Act, advocates the conclusion of a life partnership regardless of gender, i.e. the Life Partnership Act allows the conclusion of a life partnership on a gender neutral basis, i.e. that two people of different sex are also allowed to enter into a life partnership, not just for persons of the same sex, as is the case in this proposal. I agree that this content of the bill discriminates against people of heterosexual orientation. In fact, people of heterosexual orientation do not have the ability to register their partnership differently from marriage. However, marriage by its content is not equal to the proposed life partnership, and therefore persons of different sex are not able to exercise the same rights that persons of same-sex orientation will be able to achieve in accordance with future law. I also agree with the second remark of the Association "Zagreb comes" concerning the adoption of children by life partners, which would allow life partners to adopt children together especially if it is those families in which one of the partners or partner is the biological parent of a child. Taking the rights of life partners to adopt children is discriminatory, contrary to constitutional guarantee and equality and contrary to the principle of non-discrimination. Although this law is somewhat regulated, the situation of life partners living with a child will lead to further discrimination and the position of a child in a more unfavourable position based on his parents ’ sexual orientation. In Europe, we have a whole series of countries that have life partnerships, and allow the adoption of a partner's child, such as Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Iceland, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Great Britain, not including Northern Ireland, and Slovenia. Whether we want to be a country that is within a group of these countries or within a group of countries like Romania and Bulgaria. I believe that the correlation between the economic development of these countries and the scope of the rights of same-sex communities is quite significant. I have also received comments from the Lesbian Association "Contra" which justifiably warns that the comparative reading of the Family Law and the Life Partnership Act proposal can indicate that it is a copying of the Family Law in all the essential elements, while some of its provisions are unnecessarily omitted and related to the adoption of children, and some of the provisions refer to the application of the Family Law, so it would be logical for this matter to be incorporated as I have already said in the law where the matter is, which is family law because we are talking about families here. However, the government has made it clear that because of the political-pragmatic and not the essential reasons it does not want to do so, it would be necessary to enable same-sex communities to adopt children, as marriage communities do. I am afraid that regulation of partner care can create certain problems in the implementation of this law, so it is my p(4)ded that the Ministry of Administration and the Government of the Republic of Croatia until the second reading thoroughly search and correct these provisions. And finally, to sum my thumb up this bill, which is a positive step in terms of suppressing discrimination against same-sex communities, but in my opinion, not enough brave step. As politicians and politicians, we must defend the public interest and the greatest public interest is that we live in a society of equal rules of the game for all and that is why we must always be brave when we move the boundaries of respect for human rights and we must not expect that someone will applaud or build a monument for us. But as politicians and politicians, we must be in front of the main currents of society and move the borders, advocate, educate and pollomise with the public. Without that, we would live today in a society where slavery is legal, in which women have no civil rights, in which we getoise minority groups. So Ministers Bauk or Bauce as well as Vlado take a step further and allow the adoption of children by same-sex communities. You can't be wrong about that. The experiences of other, Rigid Catholic societies such as Spanish show it best, it should have political courage as their prime minister, then Prime Minister Zapatero, had. I hope you can collect it by the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72743	Maria Lugaric's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72744	Dear colleague Holly, I agree with the good part of your debate, but I'd like to actually discuss one thing and sort it out. I have to admit, it's not clear to me that this law is discriminatory against heterosexuals in terms of people of different sex who can't make a life partnership, you think that's the way it is. So I can't figure it out because this way the defined life partnership is actually something narrowly defined in relation to marriage. So now I apologize to all the lawyers present. I somehow understand that marriage needs to meet three preconditions. First of all, if there's an expression of man's will that he wants to marry with his own will, that's what we have in our life partnership. Second, if it weren't for that person in another marriage, or if he wasn't in another community, etc. that this community is registered with the competent authority, the parent there, the parent there, or there, the religious community in marriage. So, I understand ideologically that so I say valuablely especially on this left hand side, on the right hand side I don't understand because the right hand side gives that same argument, which I understand, but I really don't see discrimination because in its scope is actually everything that has a life partnership in its content has and marriage, there's also something more, those key elements, registration, no registration, this extramarital community, the marriage community. So from will to registration to competent state authorities. So I really have to admit it's not clear to me how discriminatory this is with regard to heterosexual persons, because they have the ability to live in heterosexual persons and in a regulated or registered community. a marriage or informal, unregistered out-of-marriage community which is normally corrected by this. No, so I don't know what would be the difference between opening a life partnership for people of different sex compared to marriage itself because it's actually exactly the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72745	Replication response, Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72746	This is actually about two different struggles. So if we have the Life Partnership Act, then we have the regulation of certain family communities that don't necessarily have to be sexual, that's what this is about. So it can be same-sex communities, women two or two men who are not necessarily sexual but are connected by certain relationships, intimate, trust, love or the like. And we can actually say that in this way these people are not allowed, it can also be applied to those communities that are heterosexual communities and which also do not have to be sexual omens. So, if we use the term of the community of life, then I think we should cover a far broader context of relations. In fact, such a bill applies to same-sex communities, and it is my suggestion that the very name of the law is not called the Life Partnership Act but the Law on Same-Sex Communities because it is a more accurate definition of what is covered by this law. And that if it's a fundamental intensity and I'm assuming that's the fundamental intensity of it, then I think we should change the name after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72747	Branka Juričev- Martinchev, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72748	... Thank you very much. [[Speech is not enabled.]] Dear colleague Holly, you say we must represent and advocate the rights of the minority. I think we all forgot today how we are here, by which key, we came here with the votes of the majority. Most wanted SDp to be more than HDZ's representative. Also, the victory and power of the HDZ coalition, the HNS with its coalition partners, behaves. Also today, if our citizens vote, I think it would be a ratio as it was in the referendum, it would mean that there would be twice as many who would vote for the family in relation to those who are against it. And it's ugly what on a few occasions you're comparing it to slavery. What do you think was then voted and there was a referendum on the vote on slavery, would most votes be voted for slavery or against? Yeah, you think there'd be more Those who would stand up for it, I think you're wrong. [[Intruder, Zgrebec: Don't.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72749	Answer. Please. The answer to Mirel Holy's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72750	So, I'm afraid, my colleague, you haven't figured me out. So you need to take a certain historical context, so when slavery was abolished and who at that time could vote on it from politicians. So they were mostly white men and they weren't women among them and they were rich. And of course there have been some positive shifts in society because there were individuals who were thinking ahead of their time. And always on human rights, politicians must advocate going ahead of the time of what society is assessing at that time. So, your argument that most in the referendum said that marriage is defined, that the definition of marriage between a man and a woman is, first of all, absolutely nothing to do with what is covered by this law, and on the other hand, it is necessary that we move the limits in terms of respecting human rights because without it, neither the Sufrachet movement would have succeeded, and today women would not have the right to vote, if some politicians and politicians had not been ahead of their time. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72751	My colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72752	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, the respected deputy minister with her associates, colleagues and colleagues. I support the adoption of this bill. I believe that he is a step further in what is historically determined by the attitude of the state and individual and that this historic gap between the state and the individual will be reduced by this bill. Today's debate is actually about pride and prejudice, and all those who have debated in a way that they have been demeaning, that they have feared some of the provisions of this law, or that they have implicated something in their conscience, pure or unclean, I will not enter into it, and what is not in this bill, they are essentially talking about their own limitations because they cannot agree to do so by denying or extending the rights of other people. And the space of other people's freedom is sacred space. If there are places that are sacred, then the space of other people's freedom is sacred space. Why? Because he's primarily a question and our freedoms, and if we don't figure it out, if we figure out who's gay or who's second and different, then the question of who's only second and different today, is that someone who's dominant thinks that we should just tolerate him, that he can't be killed, that he can't be beaten, but that other rights need to be cut off, then we haven't learned anything. I'd like to say something at first about this bill, very specific. In Article 7, therefore, it speaks to those who, Article 7, speak what are the assumptions for the conclusion of a life partnership, that they are persons who intend to enter into a life partnership of the same sex. What's the matter with that? That persons have declared their consent to a life partnership and that a life partnership is concluded in front of a parent. This means that all people who are not related to blood, it says there to which blood relatedness they can enter into a life partnership and that the state and that no one asks them about their sexual relations like no one asks them about marriage, not even for these relationships. And these people are going to be more and more, and that's one thing, I'd say, that's also good for these people, for relationships between people, that's good for the state because these people take care of each other, and that's something that's commendable and everything that goes in that direction, that people rely on each other, that's supposed to say hello to each other, and not that kind of thing always raises suspicion, because everything that's good, it's pre-suspective, everything that's lying and insolence, we accept it, and only then we prove the opposite. We're just kind of mislearned or kind of full of fears and negative experiences, which is also an irrefutable fact. I think Article 29 and the title under Article 29 may change. We're talking about a community of two people. That's one kind of contract, but it's much more complicated than the contract, and then why would the termination of that community be called a break-up as if it were a mere contract, like we broke a insurance contract or a contract, which I know, about a motor vehicle review and now we're breaking up a contract and we're moving into another insurance house. Very bravely you must call the end of such a life union, nothing but what it is, a divorce. Because if someone thinks that marriage has its own pandan, that is, the termination of marriage seems to be, except in those conditions prescribed by the Family Law, the annulment, death, and divorce. The divorce is not only reserved for marriage because if marriage is and we recognize it in view of the church learning and recognition of the civil effects of marriage, that there is also the sanctity of marriage, there is no sanctity of divorce, and we have the right here, this community, that is, to call this community an end of life partnership, but a divorce. I think so many things are clearer. Now that we're on the subject, there's been a lot of speeches about Article 72, it seems to me that my colleague Mlakar started with it first, and she's criticizing that the tenant can't break the lease contract if the apartment uses a life partner that's not listed in the lease agreement. 'Cause look, look, he brought in a same-sex partner, and I don't take it. What's that? So what kind of thinking is that? Then will the most fashionable man be able to deny and terminate his contract because he married a black woman or a Serbian woman or a Jewish woman in the meantime? So how far does this thinking go? Well, you're not aware of what you've said here today. It reminds me, unfortunately, of the '90s when some of them, pointed out their shame, and to God in the name of pride, I don't know whose morals, forbidden entry, remember that. It's something we have to strongly condemn. The issue of surrogates was also highlighted here, the surrogate of motherhood. It's something that isn't solved by this bill. It's obviously someone's confused and custody, so it's some kind of substitute, so it's all kind of messed up. But when it comes to this institute that doesn't exist with us, but I think that, over time, there will be progress and such a bill of law, what my colleague Holly was talking about so safely and in the Family Law at some very soon and foreseeable time, purely from the practical needs and to the introduction of that institute. Otherwise, the question of life partnership and homosexual communities is, in fact, many prejudices, nothing but fear and prejudice and nothing else. For God's sake, one of the greats is that here she would have been pointed out that, with the permission of such communities, marriage would be compromised. So I can't understand at all how someone's marriage doesn't believe so little in their marriage and their position in marriage that it's going to be threatened by a homosexual community or that there's a young one to choose between marriage and a homosexual community. So the question arises, and what is completely unproven who raised homosexuals? Heterosexuals first. If we accept each other in our own different ways and the other is nothing but a love in one way or another, what is the issue? I think there should be a lot of disputes here when it comes to the hatred of discrimination on the discrediting of others, these are issues of hate. So when you ask a question about love because nothing else, no matter how it comes out in the community, doesn't run one man or one woman or two women or two men to live together. Living together isn't easy. Therefore there should be love not only material or economic interest, and then we will discuss these ideological problems. What about my ideological problems? Have we ever opened up a problem and hatred here and about ideological problems about how evil hate is, disqualifying each other by this and that? And really let's just think that we can't afford it to be a luxury for some much more "many" countries. that we have little to live in solidarity and unity, especially in difficult times and that the question if difficult times are a question of human rights. That is why he especially rejoices that such a legal proposal is coming in this time. Here, too, it seems to me that my colleague Vuksic had noted when the state was being created in the 1990s, so it is not an open time for democracy. It's always time for the truth for democracy and freedom. That's the only reason we need to be bold. But it's not just our right to freedom and to advocate the expansion of space and other freedoms and then our freedoms, it's the duty of each and every one of us here especially here and then in society.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72753	Thank you very much. Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72754	My colleague Anticevic agrees with you and absolutely nothing is more important than human rights. I welcome your fight for human rights, I welcome your extraordinary courage in that fight, but give it and then behave accordingly. You say everyone who opposed this law spoke of their own limitations. So allow this minority in the House to respect that minority in the Parliament. If you are already in favour of human rights, which is normal for minorities, so respect this minority you, so maybe this minority is primitive, maybe these 65.87% of the people who said in the referendum that they are the recipients, the lags, the ignorant. These here in the Parliament, this minority ignorant. So pay your respects to them, too. How can you say we're talking about our own limitations? So we're limited. If we have an opinion, we are limited, and at the same time you are fighting for the rights of all other minorities. So respect the minority and the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72755	I'm not going to answer you as... thinking something like this about these topics that you and I are talking about right now, polymizing, saying there's no freedom for the enemies of freedom. I said it's a matter of self-restraint when another is bound by his right. That's what this is about. And I think we agree on that, and you don't have to be called about it because it was them, it doesn't apply to you, who just denied other rights that they think are reserved just for them and their view.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72756	He's a colleague of Pejo Grbin's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72757	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So far, much has been said in the debate on this bill. The things that apply to the law are spoken, but we've heard a lot more and I'd say the intolerant thesis that the law disproves, deny but above all go against its adoption in this form. I will not look too much at this debate about the content itself for one simple reason, because I consider the content of this law to be good, I consider it sustainable, and I consider it a step in what is my main goal, which is complete equality, and that is what some countries in Europe have already brought, and others will, after the European Court of Human Rights Protection is Article 12. The European Conventions will be interpreted in the same way as the Spanish Constitutional Court interpreted its constitution when it says that men and women have the right to marry on equal terms, so 10 or 15 years from now, this law will result in a same-sex marriage that will be even with the various ones. It's the future, we can oppose it, we can deny it, we can deny it, but it will, and it makes me happy one day. But waiting for that moment, we have to pass a law like this and for what? It is primarily because of those of our citizens of homosexual orientation who are obliged to ensure the same rights that the citizens of heterosexual orientation have, which is the right to family life and the right to protect such a life, the right to protection against discrimination and the right to protection against imbalances in the rights that they enjoy today. Now, the question is, where does our commitment come from? First of all, the obligation to adopt such a law stems from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, from international contracts and conventions which are members of the Republic of Croatia. The most important foundation is, of course, the Constitution that prescribes equality as one of the highest values of the Constitution and that it is the basis for its interpretation. And this is reflected in the sentence: "Every person in the Republic of Croatia has rights and freedoms regardless of his race, skin color, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, national or social origin, property, birth, education, social position or other characteristics.". Furthermore, our obligation to pass such a law stems from international documents that we are signatories to. By protecting the European Convention on Human Rights, the European Court of Human Rights has several times stood up to protect the same-sex communities. In the case of Schalk and Kopf v Austria, the Court clearly points out, the consequential link between the applicant of the same-sex couple living in a stable, defacto partnership falls within the area of family life in the same way that it relates to a diversified couple in the same situation. Therefore, for the European Court of Human Rights, the same-sex relationship is equated with diversity. The European Court of Human Rights has made it clear that it is a family community. Furthermore, in the Valionatos case and others against Greece, the court takes a step further and repeats for those who, even after earlier decisions of that court, some things have not been clear, the court considers that the same sex couples are equally capable of entering stable committed relationships and therefore considers that applicants are in a comparable situation with different couples regarding the need to regulate their relationship legally. As regards the content of this law, i.e. as regards the content to be attached to the same-sex community, the European Court of Justice in the case of Hay v Credit Agricole has announced. The European Court of Justice therefore says: "The purpose of Directive 2000/78 is to combat employment and interest in certain forms of discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation with a view to applying the principle of equal treatment in Member States.". Accordingly, the Court decided that in those Member States where the same sex marriage is not permitted and by changing the Constitution, Croatia has unfortunately become one of those Member States' rights stemming from such a marriage, in particular the right to relief, the days off and the like must be recognised under the same conditions as the person found in the law of the same-sex community. In short, the court found that the rights of persons in the same-sex community must be comparable to those belonging to those in the marriage community. It is clear from the cited provisions that the framework for the adoption of laws governing the same-sex community today in 2014. And we, if we want to be a country that belongs to those countries that are not only called but are indeed Europe, we must respect it. By passing such a Life Partnership Act, we will also fulfil our obligation under the Constitution of international documents, and we will fulfil above all the obligations we have towards the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is that we are all equal before the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72758	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72759	It was really impressive to listen to how much you made sure that these most important and judgments, as well as international conventions and European conventions, were mentioned when we talked about this topic. So these are the most modern ones. But that reminded me of a resolution that was passed in 1974 at the International Convention for Criminal Law since many countries and European countries still had homosexuality, therefore criminalised as intended by their criminal laws as a criminal offence. It should be noted, because there was also some talk here about it, but I think wrong, so it should be corrected that in the former Yugoslavia 1977, the countries of the Republic had their own republican criminal legislation, only the procedure was for the whole of Yugoslavia and more republics had their own legislation. And so Croatia uses this opportunity to end homosexualism in 1977 when Republic legislation is established. This is the way Slovenia and Montenegro went, but not Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Kosovo and Macedonia, which have kept homosexuality as a crime for a while.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72760	Comrade Joseph Kregar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72761	Thank you, Madam Vice President. And my first words would go to Mr. Minister and his associates. I'd like to commend, that's already been said, but in the debate, there's a little bit of a loss in the way this bill is being passed. The presentation of the different views and discussions that were being held tells not only about the use of the profession, knowledge, legal and otherwise, but also about them and those positions that did not enter the law as text but were discussed. I would, of course, also commend your peaceful restraint because it is not easy after all and this abundance of suggestions and the fact to remember it all. However, I am reporting for the purpose of pointing out the four important things that are related to this law. First of all, the real admits reality, the law cannot ignore reality. The reality is that we have a lot of homosexual communities, not statistics. How statistics will follow something that is legally, legally and neither socially recognised nor accepted, but these people exist and what I put an emphasis on are people. And before making fun of it, making fun of it, make sure it's people. I am encouraged by the debate in Parliament, style and content. Yesterday when Mr. Racan spoke or today Konig, Coleman, those were very responsible, cautious and wise words he thought we could say that for the whole. But there's one worrying thing, you're going to open a newspaper tomorrow, look at the sites now, what's coming out of this debate? The worst, the most neural part, and it's going to be a shame and it's ringing the alarm. Do not use primitive jokes, your prejudices, because it will be recorded, and this is harmful for those people to whom this law will apply. Secondly, I am truly pleased by comparing the debate today with the timely debate on the law that you have instructed. Indeed, far less expressions, ridicule, far less biological comparisons or convenient mathematics or astronomy. That wasn't today. But let us be wise and consider how much an effective remark causes possible damage. Third, let's think about one more thing, Mr. Grbin was talking about the very clear views not only of European but also of other countries that refer to these same topics. Croatia cannot be left behind because of a feeling of political pride or something, but for very practical reasons. Mobility in Europe will be far higher, mobility will depend on whether Europe has some standards of human rights protection or just these rights that are about to be similar. We will differ according to the traditions of mentality and everything, but we must not differ by rights. And here, my colleague Grbin has already listed it, it is a fairly clear minimum standard that meets what this law requires, which is to recognise the status of partner communities. I'm also saying this because one more thing is visible in this debate. The question was raised, and it was often repeated, whether the legal solution must go ahead or actually just bless and acknowledge the practice. Of course it has to go ahead because otherwise, watch out 100 years ago most Croats lived in domestic cooperatives, so there has been a change and it has to be acknowledged. In 1916, legislation went one step further with the novel of Austrian civil law in this regard. So we must be reasonable in this regard and see what is coming for us in the future. I liked a sentence very much that we must lead, we must go faster and further but not too far from those who follow us so that we do not stray. That's also the thing I'm commending here. There aren't all those things in this bill that we might want. One example is the adoption of children, because I will return to that, this is about people, imagine that a child lives with someone for 15 years, and that after that, such a community cannot continue in the form of adoption, adoption or what you will call it. What about those situations where marriages are concluded, such communities are registered in another country where it's called marriage, so people move to Croatia, and they want to live there. We can't go say below those standards, but we can't even impose an attitude too aggressively because this is about something that's being seen from the outset, which is that it's about one process of learning and getting used to new things. We find it very unusual to listen to many suggestions that can be heard here regarding this law. Many of them are simply not used to it, let's give them time to get used to it, let's not make fun of things like adoption and adoption of children, deposing of that community because then it only hurts. After all, we in Croatia actually have several legal systems that regulate such communities. Catholics live in a community regulated by canon law... not just by marriage law, there's no... Then why not calmly accept this pluralism when it comes to same-sex registered communities. I think the whole law and the proposal is a good attempt to regulate what is in reality, which in reality exists, that it is not so radical that it will cause fears and unrest and that it is something that we will preserve those freedoms and levels of protection of the rights of minorities because democracy is not only the rule of the majority, but also the protection of the rights that there are always minorities. So I welcome the adoption of this Law in the first reading, and by the second reading there will probably be some changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72762	The Honorable representative of Peja Grbin has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72763	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm actually going to refer to something you said, and that's the need to go beyond what's written in those decisions that I've been talking about for one simple reason. The tendency to make these decisions is that they are made faster and faster and more and more give new rights, and now if we come and say we will satisfy that minimum it will result in a simple problem. We will have this debate in six months, six months after that because European courts and the one in Strasbourg and the one in Luxembourg each year make new decisions that make these rights wider and that is why I am responsible for what I said that within 15 years, we can expect this interpretation of Article 12 at the latest. Convention that will lead to the obligation to recognise same-sex marriages. And an example of this, in my opinion, is one very interesting, two objects brought to you in the space of 15 years by Rees v. United Kingdom and then Goodwin again against the United Kingdom. '86. The European Court of Human Rights has said that a transgender person does not have the right to marry the person who belonged to that transgender person before the transition. The same article has not changed, 14 years later, the European Court of Human Rights says. And to ask why there is now when 15 years ago the European Court of Human Rights said only one sentence, because the circumstances in society have changed. And so the circumstances in society have changed in Croatia to such a degree that this law must be passed at least in this form that is proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72764	Replication response, distinguished representative Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72765	Since we agree on the conclusion, it's a little unusual that I would now be supplementing what you said. Not only that, the Court of Human Rights has improved throughout a number of cases and we can see in which direction it has changed its decisions. It was about freedom of expression, of home or of protecting justice in procedures. So that's what we're thinking. But I think the legislator also made an analysis in this regard and suggested something that is a balance between what we can at this point consider a compromise and what we will very soon have as an international obligation. It won't actually change the need to change this law for a while. But it seems to me that this approach, this strategy, is correct. Not going to scare people about those things. Many times this is highlighted in a discussion that is absolutely marginal. Well, it's not gonna be selling kids or anything, it's not really gonna be a problem, but that's what people are afraid of. That's not good. Therefore, I welcome the moderation and propensity of a reasonable solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72766	Honorable representative Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72767	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Craiger, you said imagine a child living with someone 15 years old and then you took it away from him. Of course, it's not easy, that it's scary because you're bonding to some other person, so it doesn't look that simple after 15 years. But the prejudices that our society has to do with tradition, according to tradition, so if you want religion today tell you that even in our society when you look at children in schools they are in a certain way discriminated against. I couldn't believe it, but today I'm buying a cell phone that might be a worse brand for kids to discriminate on at school. It will be difficult for a child who comes to school from a life partnership in the society in which we live to explain to his colleagues at the school from which he comes. And then I hope you understand me in that so you don't get it wrong, you said there's no divorce and divorce in canonical law. It does if the marriage isn't consummated. So there are certain conditions, and I'll tell you Mr. Paris, the rabbi of Paris who was there, he said something about marriage that he wasn't just living together two people, he's organizing the life of a community consisting of descendants and ancestors. In this sense, marriage is a fundamental act in building and stability both individual and society.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72768	Replication response, distinguished representative Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72769	I volunteered to be reasonable in that assessment. A child in a school who comes from an unrecognized community of same-sex partners will have the same problem. But with this bill of law, we make it one reasonable measure. In fact, we show that it is a pedagogical standard that school has to worry about having all the rights of the child and being recognized in the community. The solution I see and which law indicates is the fact that in things like adoption, adoption is primarily about the child's interest. But it's not leaving. It's one standard that's simply above the mere principle of exchange and inheritance. Well, the kid won't just belong to another one. In a certain procedure, they will receive a new parent or another parent. And if that's harmful, it can only be harmful if we continue to distribute and separate children like that, to stick it to them as something that's their fault. If we point out that they're different, that's why they're less valuable. A child who is a child from the same sex community will learn and need to learn that he has no mother and father, he has two fathers, two mothers but he handles it better than that there is in fact and that it is legally not regulated or recognised. It's not metaphysics.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72770	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. Dear colleague Marija Lugarić:
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72771	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, Deputy Minister with Associates. Yes, he's right, when he says the circumstances really changed, I was here as a representative as others in 2003 when we passed the Law on Same-Sex Communities, then they were some, then they were real Assembly locks. I'm going to remind them just to see how much things really have changed in ten years, all day long they've been talking about heterosexual universes, weld rabbits, and I don't know what other things. I am very happy and happy with the fact that we have not heard such things today. Even if someone thought of what I suspected and didn't dare say, only ten years ago it was perfectly normal, but perfectly normal, in 2008, we passed the Anti-discrimination Act, the whole cinema was about that law, because the law was in its proposal, and so finally it was banned from discrimination based on sexual orientation. No other discrimination was disputed, it was controversial about sexual orientation, and it was the whole movie about the adoption of the law. That was almost six years ago, 5.5 years ago. Today we're talking about a very different atmosphere and I agree with all of them, and now the last colleagues of the Grbin, my colleague Kregar, have been talking about that, in fact, I'm also assessing a relatively small amount of time to continue to improve these institutes. Secondly, I think that in some discussions some colleagues have lost sight of a little bit of a fundamental thing, and that is a question of who can actually conclude a life partnership by law. Several preconditions must be, firstly, that there are two persons of the same sex, that these persons should give, or declare consent to the conclusion of a life partnership, and that this procedure is conducted before a parent who then determines that they are not married or some other life partnership. No one but no one will ask these people their sexual orientation. We can assume and it's valid to assume that it's about people who are homosexuals or homosexuals in the same way as in marriage but nobody asks a man and woman who make up a marriage that is their sexual orientation. You must declare that you want to make a marriage, the terms of the Family Law for marriage must be met, and it must be concluded in a certain way, in front of a religious community that has signed a contract with the Republic of Croatia, or in front of a mother as a civil authority. No one asks, we had homosexuals who normally made marriages, some lived for the rest of their lives in those marriages mostly unhappy, some who got divorced in some way then admitted to themselves and their environment that it wasn't really for them. So the sexual orientation of a person is not important, or as I would say in this sense, legally not relevant and it must not actually be a topic of conversation here. No one has the right to fool me, Gordani or anyone else into bed. It just can't be the subject of conversation. That's what I'm saying because some colleagues, I think colleague Sumrak was talking about that when she grew up with some colleague of hers, she made a life partnership with Sonja, so there's no legal obstacle not to make such a partnership and you enjoy all the rights of such partnerships. Secondly, I was saying something about it in the replica of my colleague Holly, I really am, I'm clear on the left, but I wish someone from the right position from which that argument came would explain to me that it's wanted, that life partnership could be made possible for people of different sex. Because I don't understand how colleagues and colleagues who are from that right more conservative option don't realize that it's actually breaking up a marriage, it's destroying a marriage that they're nominally out of line for. Thirdly, I think it is very important in this debate to have before the eyes truly persons who, in this law, very legitimately expect or use certain rights. It is my people, we have to admit it objectively, relatively easy to talk about, because some things we take for granted, unfortunately some people in our Croatian society today do not have and are not healthy for granted and it is not so special to me or what we in our heterosexual family life in front of the state, before others we have recognised and recognized. You need to put yourself in those people's shoes, and that's not where you should be fooled. The law, I agree here with my colleague Kregar, there is also some research, that legal regulation in one piece can really help reduce the social stigma and the law will have, indeed, slightly increase visibility, slowly work, but there should be no illusions that this law will end discrimination. That's what nobody said, I just want to warn myself, that as a policy, as a society, as individuals, we have to do a lot of work to stop discrimination, over Twitter, a colleague sent me a message this morning after one of my replicas and said please tell me that a cop decided to legitimize me because I kissed my girlfriend in a public place. It happens, we get gay people, gays and lesbians, I won't say it every day, they're very often exposed to violence, beat them up, beat them up, it won't change by this law, we have to work a lot harder than the law itself. We mathematicians would say that the law is necessary but not sufficient conditions, so there is much more to be done. About the kids, the mail, we talked a lot, no one asked those kids. Emma, there's a 16-year-old girl, so it's not about a child, it's about a grown-up girl who has business skills. She says like this, my parents got divorced when I was very young and it's better that way because they didn't get along. Mom met a woman she loves, and soon we moved in together. This other woman has become part of my family and has lived together for more than 10 years. I accepted her as a member of the family, and it didn't matter to me that we weren't related to blood, but I just felt it was okay. I think even the advantage of being raised is that I accept people no matter what sexual orientations and other fates many experience abnormal. Besides, if my mom's partner had her own baby, I'd take him as my own brother or sister. I've always been accepted in society and my mother's sexual orientation can't possibly and will never affect it. It doesn't determine what kind of person I am or what kind of person my mother is, and that's why my moms have to be able to get married and live in security. I know that the Life Partnership Act would mean a lot to them because I've often heard them talk about what it would be like for my birth mother to happen, and that her partner would lose her right to everything, both to the apartment and to me, and maybe I couldn't live with her anymore. I'm afraid it doesn't happen, so the law would mean a lot to me, too. We can close our eyes, but we have living people, living children. And in the end, people are good, bad, not because they're straight or gay. A parent is a good parent regardless of whether he's straight or gay. We've heard a lot of love is love, family is family, I really don't understand, but I really don't understand people who can be against this law, against ideas spoken in this law because it really doesn't go into my head like other people, where they get to challenge other people's rights that they enjoy and take for themselves and that in no way threaten them or anyone else. In that sense, my support for this law is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72772	So we have one replica, respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72773	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Lugarić, you said that in 2003, I suppose, when the Law on Same-Sex Communities was passed, that they were real Assembly locks and that you were glad that there were no similar locks today. Of course, people evolve, so I guess that's what MPs do. But the comparisons you've been doing, I'm not going to say that I'm bothered by this relativization of all of you, and then you read, today you've read a lot of that e-mail, it can be convenient for every debate and this one, and there will always be individual cases, no matter how or what laws have been passed on to me. However, I am sorry that you did not notice, in 2003 a Law on Same-Sex Communities was passed in this House, and today we are also talking about a proposal for a Life Partnership Act, Article 2 which states that it is a community of family life of two persons of the same sex who have concluded a life partnership relationship with the competent authority in accordance with the provisions of this law, etc., etc. So it's about the same law. If they wanted to help the same-sex communities to meet their specific needs in any way, no one, but really no one would mind that they could have done it and through this Law of Same-Sex Communities, in amendments and additions, we would have actually solved everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72774	Replica reply, distinguished representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72775	People seem to evolve how they are, I hope HDZ will evolve to the end, but good. I'm kidding, of course. But I'd just like to say, we've heard that argument a few times, and I think it's important to answer it. We also have some kind of nomotechnical rule, if you will. If certain laws change into more than, how much? 40, 30... How much? So in a certain percentage, you just have to write a new law. The end, the beginning of the story, no conspiracy, no big plans, etc. The law on same-sex communities is small, and if we put it all into it, we'd change it by more than, I don't know, 80, 90%, and the rules just make us go to a new law. It's over, the end and the beginning of the story. It's nothing special. And there's one more thing and one important difference. As such, the same-sex community does not register, it seems to me that counterpart Hajdukovic responded to his colleague, Sumrak. The rights of the same-sex community come true at the moment when you first have to prove that the community existed and then it comes true. Similar to the extramarital community, the informal life partnership tomorrow. This is a completely second and different institute, it refers simply to people who, the community of two people of the same sex, but it is essentially different institutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72776	Please, only when you get the words, so we can write and record your words. So if people are evaluating, evaluating their communities no matter what they call themselves and what they think about themselves and the communities live on the presumptions, most often by the impressions of yuris and the impressions of yuris de iura. Okay, now I've been acting a little bit important, now we're gonna move on. Now comes the deputy minister of social care and youth, right? Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth. Dear Maya Sporish, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72777	Thank you very much. Very short. I just wanted to announce, there's a lot of talk here about how there's some data missing in our society, how we treat kids in our society, if they're tolerating the Stigma, if they're tolerating the stigma of people living in same-sex communities. In a few months, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth will present the results of research conducted by a group of young scientists. Research will include people living in same-sex communities and children living in those communities because children live in those communities in Croatia and that is reality. And among other things, the study will also refer to the coverage of the data on their way of life, of the stigma they suffer. I think we'll be more detailed when the research is done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72778	Thank you too, dear Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth, dear Maya Sporish. We are now continuing to discuss individual representatives. It is up to the Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72779	I thank the Honorable President of the Parliament. Well, first, two things my esteemed colleague, Craig, pointed out, and I think it's important to underline them. The law has 80 articles, and document 206 pages. So so carefully, so pedanticly justified law we had no honor or opportunity to see here. Well done, Minister, to you, to your ministry, to your associates. This is an example of how legal proposals should come to the Assembly, an illustration. Another thing that's a little bit more sad, which is when you look at today's portals, probably tomorrow's newspapers, and when you see that the most primitive parts of the debate have taken up the most places. It's not our fault, though, the media has their logic, the yellowness helps them sell, we can only help it by having as few primitive steps as possible, but I'm afraid it's illusory to appeal in that direction. The debate on this law is primarily a debate on two large topics. One is the attitude of the majority to the minority and the other is the attitude to human rights. Homosexual communities are no doubt a minority in every society. Statistics say that homosexuals are approximately 10% within the population. Some of them are covered up, some are declared. Their relationship with them is different in the modern world. In many countries Belgium, Norway, the United Kingdom, France, Spain, the Netherlands, homosexual marriages are possible, with all the consequences resulting from marriage. So they're completely even with heterosexual communities. Until, for example. In Uganda, homosexualism is being punished for life in prison, today, for life in prison. As a society, we must identify what we seek. Are we going to be more like Uganda or do we want to be like Western civilizations? There's no doubt about it for me, but nothing at all. I wish there wasn't any of us. The attitude towards minorities to any minority of racial, national sexual orientation has changed, it has not always been the same. For example. African-American Tony Pace and white Mary Cox in 1881 were arrested and sentenced to two years in prison because Alabama then defended interracial marriages and criminalized interracial ties. If our esteemed colleague Darko Milinovic were alive in Alabama at the time, he would probably wonder why he would not condemn these people because he would explain to them how their child would explain that he had a white mom and a black dad, how he would explain it at school, so parents would come to parent meetings. And all the other moms and dads are white, and he's the only one with one black one white. The relationship of happiness is changing. It is also interesting that the relationship to this minority by sexual orientation generally coincides with the relationship to all other minorities. So those who don't have too much understanding for a minority by sexual orientation don't have too much understanding for a national minority, or for a cultural minority who wants to exercise the right to use their letter, so he supports those who break records with that letter, that's the characteristic of a particular ideology, I would say political orientations. None of these minorities chose their identity, their position as minorities. We don't choose the nationality in it we're born in. I said today, in one replica, we don't usually choose religion, Catholics are born in a Catholic house, Protestants in a Protestant house, Buddhists in a Buddhist house, rarely when, there are converts, but very rarely religious membership changes. We've been raised in it, and we accept it as it was given. And with sexual orientation, she gave it to us and it's hard for us to choose. How unhappy they were today are when they discover that they are prone to the same sex because they know that they will be rejected, that they will be condemned. It is our job not to be rejected or condemned but to grant them the rights that belong to most. This law significantly improves the position of a minority, not to the end. It would be the end of it if we could even as much as in these countries of Western Europe, if we could bring it in, if we could make equal marriages, but it's important to improve. And that's why whoever is against this law is for discrimination. He's for white Mary Cox and African-American Tony Pace to be sentenced to jail. The relationship to human rights is another feature of this law. Mr. Coleman said in his debate that that marriage referendum had nothing to do with this law, I would disagree. A referendum on marriage what did he do? He made marriage a constitutional category and marriage is not a human right. Because people can and don't have to live married. Human rights is what is common to all people, it is the right to life, the right to freedom and the right to equality before the law. By the fact that a marriage that is not a human right has entered into the Constitution, it has forbidden one another, a true human right, the right to equality before the law to apply to all people in Croatia. And that's what we did, until the Constitution changes, homosexual couples can't achieve their human right to be equal before the law. That's where I think that referendum did absolutely the greatest damage. What would be the best maybe? There's already been some suggesting it. I talked to Minister Bauk about it in preparation, in preparation for this law. We've even heard this today from the HDZ ranks that make me happy, which is that this law applies to everything and not just to homosexual couples. So whoever wants to get married and whoever wants to go to a life partnership. She will have the rights that the Life Partnership Act offers him. If one day he wants to adopt the children and get out of his life partnership and get married. But this way we could allow those who care about human rights to say no, no, I'm heterosexual but I'm entering a life partnership you know why, so I can be equal to those who don't have the right to marry, that this gesture shows that I care more about people being equal than my personal status of marriage or this life partnership. Now, my colleague Grubisic, in his debate, wondered in his endless replicas why this is not called a registered partnership but a life partnership, is not here but I cannot resist it without answering it. Because people live in the community and cars register. Thank you very much, goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72780	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Igor Coleman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72781	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. You have said one of the key themes of this long-term debate, which is the difference between developed, paraphrasing, developed and undeveloped civilizations. The key actually point of conflict is general, public good on the one hand and self-affinity on the other. And the difference is and the characteristic of a developed civilization is precisely that regardless of our own affinities and inclinations we are able to recognize the general good and rights of all and allow rights and freedoms to all under one condition, and that is that this first, consumption of these rights does not harm other people's rights. And the consumption of any right under this bill does not in any way harm other people. And second, just for a little while, I agree completely that the referendum has done a great deal of damage. What I was just trying to say is that the fact of the decision in this referendum is not in any way and it cannot be against the regulation of this law because these two things are not in a direct relationship.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72782	Honorable representative Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72783	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I'm sorry I can't replicate my colleague Coleman, but here comes Mr. Stazic. In fact, you mentioned, I would agree the same thing with you about the media and everything that they actually carry on today, and I think they could do it differently and do it, but it's not just this time, it happens all the time. I'm sorry that this is going to the parliamentary deputies, so here's the public perception of us as we know it is, we know that's not the case. You said today that there was a colleague, Milinovic, that he might understand that. And you said he might not understand if he had a black dad and a white mom and he didn't say it, but he was talking about it today, but I think it's good to say it. Now let's take one Shime and one Nenad adopt one child, and that child comes to the age of 3, 4 years, comes to kindergarten and asks who his mom is, and he comes home and asks one of them who's here, Nenad and who's there, Shime. That's what he was talking about. It is certain that these children will experience a certain stigmatisation regardless of what the ministry's representative says. You said something else, you mentioned countries in the European Union, so I'll tell you about Germany they have this lebenpartnerschaftsgesgesetz who's a little bit as long as a sausage but the Law on a registered life partnership. But in the context of the illustration, it may be necessary to stress that, for example, in the German constitution, marriage and family are under special protection, and therefore all other forms of living communities are not comparable to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72784	Replica response, Honored Vice-President Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72785	Just one thing. I'm sorry that you've literally understood me, expression knows certain figures of style such as metaphor and allegory.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72786	Wait, wait, wait, wait. Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72787	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President Stazic, you said in your statement who is against this law it is for discrimination. You have thus proved that, on the basis of incomplete and false premises, you bring false connunciations and this is not the first time in your presentations. And we will, by now, have explained and we will explain and further what we think, not that the law should not be passed, not that it should not protect the minority in a certain way but rather how it should be done. That's what we're talking about. And thanks to your advance, no matter how late it is, I believe you have again secured your portals with your comment on Mr. Darko Milinovic's disembarkation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72788	Replicate response, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72789	I doubt it, I think it's too late for portals but it wasn't my intention. Look, that logic of yours that you support the rights of homosexuals but that you are not for the law that allows them, I cannot understand. Yes, I allow, I may be a limited person, I may be a limited, intellectually limited but I can't understand that someone stands up for someone's right and refuses to accept the law that right now allows.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72790	The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72791	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Stazic, it's not too late to buy in the media some space for your statement, it's really not because for a long time, but it's your syntagm that on this side there are those who are for discrimination, who are blunt, who understand nothing, who are lagging behind, and if they disagree unfortunately, as you said in your opinion, and you are limiting our or my opinion you say I am for discrimination. I didn't, fellow Stazic. We're not absolutely against law-making, but we are against this kind of law-making with some of these articles and we said that. And don't say we're behind and we don't know what, bloodthirsty, what you're trying to prove, I don't understand. You called us here very naughty.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72792	Replicate response, distinguished representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72793	I don't remember. I didn't call you. I didn't say you were behind. You are to pass laws that will allow for a better status of homosexuals, but not for this law. The Minister has called you, made you, prepared for the second reading if you want to complete your law, say what you want in it, change this debate, change it in the second reading of the amendments, but see if you really want to help that community that is a minority community and that cannot help itself without us. Well, a minority can't afford a right if it's not guaranteed by the majority. Well, it's the task of most to protect the minority. And I now invite you along with the minister and the entire government, if you are truly so well-intentioned, then let us make this law so acceptable to you. There's nothing you wouldn't otherwise be able to accept, which is the adoption of children and there's nothing you wouldn't be able to accept, which is that it's called marriage. That's what I have my own opinion on, you know, I'm gonna give you all the rights to marriage but it can't be called marriage. It's like telling someone I'll give you all human rights, but you can't call yourself a man.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72794	Thank you very much. On behalf of the legislator, Minister of Management Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72795	Very short. So in Croatia for a while, I don't know how long that time will be, Shime and Nenad won't be able to adopt a child, and then there won't be a need in this institutional sense for a child who adopts Shime and Nenad to explain what is one to him and what is the other. When possible, then they will likely say the same thing that Ingemar and Olaf today say when they adopt their child’s words in Sweden or in another country where possible. This is not possible in Croatia now, if we adopt such a law will not be possible, and when possible, it is a sign that in a large number of countries it is possible and we will probably go in that direction. Whether it will be, when it will be and when, as the representative of the coat of arms has said, change the social circumstances so that the European Court of Human Rights in that case of transgender persons will also prescribe this for persons of same-sex orientation, then. So I think this debate has also shown that it is still well measured what the law needs to write and what the law does not need to write. So I would like those who support the increase in the rights of same-sex communities to uphold the law because of what it says, rather than against what it does not write. And those who approach this with a little more caution, to support the law because it does not say because they would probably be opposed to writing in it what it does not write. All those who support the adoption of the law are likely to have an opportunity tomorrow in voting not on the law but on the conclusion in which they will probably write is supported by the adoption of the law and the applicant is invited to consider all proposals and conclusions between the two readings and to propose, it is logical for me if you are to increase your rights, to be in favour, not even abstentions, to be in favour of, in the first reading. And then in the second reading, if all that you said is rejected, your legitimate right to be against, which I won't agree with, and I don't want to tell you how to do tomorrow, I'm just saying what's logical to me, and then, in that way, we make the debate about some next law to make it even more tolerant and even better. So I remember the 2003 debate, actually to be honest, I remember only one representative who discussed it, one MP, and I remember that two sentences. One is to be a man and admit, and the other was to be clubs of the same sex community, not couples, etc., but it was basically the law that was passed then in 2003, the declaration turned out because it predicted that the community would be recognised not after it was closed, but after it was broken down. So the fact that no community has been recognised speaks of the fact that neither community being broken down, not the conclusion of a representative, twilight, has been recognised. But, well, that's what we've stated in our argument that none has been recognised, and that's why we're proposing a new law, and we're ready, here's about eight o'clock in the evening, as long as we have to listen, as long as we have to discuss it, and as long as we have to convince that this is better than what we have, worse than what some others have, but this is good enough for us to be satisfied and those who are a little bit more supportive and those who are a little less supportive.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72796	We continue with an individual debate of fellow MPs. It is up to the honourable representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72797	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with Associates. It's too late, but this debate was really great today, and I really have to admit that I'm happy to talk in this spirit about such a sensitive issue as the life partnership of same-sex communities. Everyone in the world is born with four inalienable rights, right to life, right to security, right to freedom and right to happiness. These natural rights cannot be denied or denied by anyone, not by parents, not by society, let alone by the state. We are all born not by our own will, we are born each and every single, white, black, yellow, red, with blue or black eyes, with red or black hair, we are born as heterosexual or homosexual. In the course of childhood, we are formed by family, environment and society, and after 18 years of life we begin to take full responsibility for our lives in our own hands. And even earlier, but after 18 years, we're completely choosing our own lifestyle and that's our inalienable right. It's our personal freedom, every single individual's freedom, and unlimited until the moment he starts endangering the freedom of another individual. Anyone whose free choice of lifestyle in no way endangers the freedoms of any other person. I must admit that I am personally fascinated by the amount of emotion and passion that certain individuals, groups, and certain political parties are trying to make some of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens, certain individuals and individuals unhappy. It is an incredible amount of energy that is invested in eliminating the fundamental human rights of certain individuals and individuals who do not endanger anyone at all. Their only crime is that they're something different in behavior and life's preferences and that they're a minority. Their only crime is that they fall in love, love, and want to enjoy their own happiness with the same sex. Homosexuals and homosexuals pose no threat to anyone. From the very fact that they're committed to the same sex, they're not endangering anyone or anything. They are our fellow citizens and fellow citizens who, just like all other citizens and fellow citizens, are born, go to school, work, pay taxes and suffer all the benefits and woes of modern society, reality, everyday life. Like all citizens, they have every right to be fully equal in all rights, to ask their country to protect them, to provide them with a legal framework, as well as all other citizens and citizens, in order to achieve their happiness. By my personal, deep conviction as a society, we failed the maturity test when we accepted with such a high percentage the recent referendum requirement that marriage is an alliance exclusively between a man and a woman. Marriage is a legal institute that is prescribed by the state and should be applied to all citizens and citizens and thus the constitutional provision is totally discriminatory, discriminatory and homophobic because it excludes all persons who are not male and female from the application of this legal institute. And all legal institutes must treat all adult persons equally. The function of the state is very simple to explain. The state has only one purpose and task to make life easier, easier, more beautiful and happier for its citizens and citizens. The State must be just for all and must make laws, rules equal to everything and everyone, as well as for the consumption of the rights and common lives of two minors. Every adult has the right, full right and absolute autonomy to decide and choose their lifestyle and each adult has the full right to choose his partner or partner of his own free choice. And no one, especially the state, has the right to question that choice, let alone interfere with that choice. It is the only role of the state to regulate the rights and obligations arising from this relationship. It's a clear marriage law. As recently as a society, we failed a maturity test in a referendum on marriage today, we are discussing the Life Partnership Act that corrects the centuries of injustice against our fellow citizens and fellow homosexuals in a minimal form, or content. The same-sex communities remain discriminated against about the adoption of children. Given the current social opportunities and current relations and behaviour against the same-sex communities and homosexuals in Croatia at all, this is a minimal but obviously optimal framework at this time related to the regulation of the relationship between the life partnership of the same-sex communities. In the proposal itself, it says, the bill is an attempt to compromise democratically between the values of views and the world's current tensions in Croatian society. Everyone has the right to live in absolute real freedom to the moment until they enter space and begin to threaten the real freedoms of others. Everyone has the right to choose their own style and lifestyle and no one has the right to take it away from him. And all legal institutes must treat all adult persons equally. In accordance with that principle and personal belief, I agree with those who consider this Law to be discriminatory and against heterosexual persons. If two heterosexual persons wish to enter the community of life according to the provisions of this Law, they need to be able to do so, even though such status has already been resolved by the Law of Marriage. And in the end, I want to repeat that homosexuals are just being homosexual to no one, and they're not jeopardizing anything. With this bill of law, this country protects the fundamental right of individuals of a minority to happiness moves us towards a better and more advanced society. This bill also raises us as people on a scale of civilization progress. The draft life partnership law should certainly be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72798	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Igor Coleman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72799	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. As an adult after 18 years, you said that we are taking full responsibility for our lives, I agree, in the context of this law of the state, which, because of sexual orientation, in fact in one part of our citizens and citizens does not allow them to take full responsibility for their lives, cannot be called in full terms of the state, and in this sense, this law is, and in this context, an absolutely positive step.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72800	Dear Representative Ivica Mandic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72801	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleague, I agree with the greatest part of your debate, which is not unusual, we come from the same club. Now I don't know if it happened to you by accident or if you deliberately potentiated it even though in your later debate, you touched it. What we would certainly like both as a club and as individuals, we want no law to be discriminatory either by sex or by religious, racial or any other basis, you said here that we have this life partnership where you have precisely determined that it can only be an equal life partnership. You later touched that should be determined against everyone regardless of gender. Why can't they be two straight people in a life partnership, no matter if they don't want to accept marriage as a community, so they want to be in a life partnership because it's okay. I think that this law and the slightest possibility of discriminatory provisions should be eliminated, and I think that in that way we should also observe this debate of yours, and in fact you said it in the end and in your debate, and I was replicating it at the beginning when you didn't say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72802	Thank you. Replica response, respected representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72803	Thank you very much. Yes, it's true, although you said something I didn't say, but I'm going to look back at some other details that are aacronyms, let's just say about marriage, about marriage to constitutional provisions marriage is defined by a community of men and women that forbids anything from women being gay men and homosexual women. I mean, there are various variations and variables of every relationship, but the only thing that matters in my deep belief in this situation is that we're all equally legal, that we have absolutely the same right to choose our way and lifestyle because that's the basic human right. We must be maximum free in choosing what style and how we will live, and this law is in two parts discriminatory, one in relation to heterosexual and homosexual communities related to the adoption of children and in the other part discriminatory in the fact that life partnership cannot form a person of heterosexual personality.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72804	The Đurjica's Đurjica twilight replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72805	Thank you very much, Mr. Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Blažekovic, in one part of your debate I agree with you, in one part I will not say that I disagree, but I am a little impressed with these really certain statements of yours. I am so happy that we live in Croatia today and that it really punishes every violence against one who has a different style and lifestyle of course if that style and lifestyle does not endanger the safety of other people, things and that I do not list. But what hurt me a little is that you said that this definition of marriage that entered the Constitution, I agree with some opinions as to why it happened at all, was provoked but I don't think it endangers anyone, not the same-sex community or the same-sex community. That would be equal to a colleague of Blažeković, let's say if Article 13 of the Constitution said, the capital of the Republic of Zagreb. The law regulates the position, part-circuit and structure of the capital of Zagreb, tell me if this is discriminatory that Zagreb is the capital of Croatia. It is not, it threatens neither Rijeka nor Osijek nor Split, and it would then be discriminatory that marriage is a community of women and men, not men and women, but women and men.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72806	Replica response, respected representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72807	Thank you very much So just for one thing, that your finding, thank you for the replica, for one basic reason only because the Institute of Marriage is a regulation, a legal regulation, a legal norm and it does not allow these same norm to a group of people who are not women and men, and in that context it is as discriminatory as the norm. It does not endanger anyone in general, but it endangers the rights of a minority, a group of people.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72808	Thank you very much. We'll continue the debate. Dear colleague representative Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72809	Thank you, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, deputy ministers with associates, respected few but patient and persistent colleagues and also colleagues. So, colleague Lugarić reminded us of the atmosphere a short time ago when the first legal framework for the functioning of same-sex communities in Croatia was set up by the government, which was the same as this one led by the SDP in 2003 by adopting the Law on Same-Sex Communities. It is, we can say it freely then was an important step because the initial step is always the most important. However, the move was obviously too narrow because in the past ten years, since the law in force in Croatia has not officially confirmed the formation of any single same-sex community. Therefore, it is obvious that this law did not provide the extent of the right that is necessary for the successful functioning of communities of persons of same-sex orientation. Meanwhile, most EU member states, along with some other non-member countries, have provided the same sex communities with a legal framework that guarantees them the same position and equal opportunities either through the Institute of the Registered Life Partnership, whether through full equality with the marriage community. It is clear that we should take a second step, or step further than the existing legal framework, because we all know very well that the same-sex communities in Croatia exist, that they are a social reality and that they will not disappear if we close our eyes to that fact. So we cannot and must not ignore the fact that Croatian society has progressed over the past 10 years, that social consciousness has evolved or, as counterpart Grbin said in his replica, has changed, so they simply changed the circumstances. In this respect, the proposed Life Partnership Act only accepts the existing situation. As counterpart Kregar said in his discussion, the law agrees with reality and provides the appropriate practical solutions needed for the normal everyday life of same-sex couples, as is the case with the rights of marriage partners. On the other hand, that should be said when we are discussing this law, we are deeply aware of the strong antagonism that a part of Croatian citizens express against the LGBT population, which is largely based on, I would say to one irrational fear that a minority can endanger most, or most world-wide postulates. Although personally, I must say, it has never been clear how a minority can be a threat to most people, however, it is necessary to respect the fact that these citizens have a negative attitude towards equating the legal status of same-sex communities with heterosexual communities. Unfortunately, I must also say that it is increasingly clear that the relationship with LHBT members and same-sex communities is becoming another point of polarisation of Croatian society. That is why it is good that this legislative proposal is conceived so that it is just trying to reconcile this reflection in Croatian society or as it is said in the explanation, I will quote: "The law is an attempt of a democratic compromise between the values and the world's current tensions". And that's why this bill is well thought out, wise and very correct, I would say fair and demonstrate the maturity of this government. I'd say the same way that he doesn't really need anything to add or take anything away. And in this context, I find it very unacceptable to hypocritical in some discussions and deliberately misread certain provisions of the law, as did my colleague Milinovic, whether it was just a misrepresentation from a lack of understanding, which is totally irresponsible or did not read the text of the law at all, which is equally irresponsible, and then, after that, it justified this misrepresentation by smoking in cold, as he said, because of what some next, even more liberal law might pass. Someone said millions of same-sex communities. So, that blowing up some of the MPs to the cold is pure manipulation of the citizens. The minority will not become the majority if minorities are recognised by the rights that most have. The greatest differences between both sex and heterosexual communities are relative to the position of children. This legislative proposal does not provide for the possibility of adopting children by same-sex partners, and for the hundredth time should be repeated, that two persons of the same sex, so two men or two women will not be able to adopt a child under this law. However, since it is not possible to deny the fact that same-sex communities with children exist, the law and for such situations offers a compromise solution, which is the possibility of obtaining the custody of one life partner over another life partner's child, so that custody can be realised through two models, so two models, parent care model and partner care institute have been offered. Thus, the law indeed seeks to reconcile worldly and other differences and even respects the attitude of our citizens made by a referendum. Namely, I will say so, the traditional Croatia says or requires that marriage is a community of women and men. The law proposes a life partnership institution as a form of common life of same-sex persons, which means that marriage remains limited only to the community of heterosexual persons. However, when traditional Croatia says that the family, I quote, is not just a man and a woman, but they become a family only when they get a third member, so a child, then we have to ask ourselves does this mean that all heterosexual couples who are without children, especially those who can't have children for health or other reasons, or widows with or without children, are they not family? So we claim they are family, but that difference doesn't make this law radical. Finally, I will say that this legislative proposal is a significant step for Croatian society, that it fully respects today's level of development of social relations and represents the best possible, so at this moment the best possible solution is that the aim of the law is to ensure a minority group with rights that will at the same time not harm or threaten anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72810	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Igor Coleman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72811	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues, Jelash, you have quite rightly concluded that there is a strong antagonism of one part of the population in Croatia towards full equalization of the rights of heterosexual and homosexual couples. In this context, it seems to me, in fact, that the fact that outside the scope of this law remains two, let's say the most controversial, under the quotes of the point just shows the responsibility of the legislator and the responsibility of the legislator at the moment, but I also think that today we have made a pretty serious progress in this sense so much that if I have well listed the representatives of the 6 parties in this House today, at least in their own name they have said that they are willing to take a step further in equating that right. Of these 6 parties at least 2 or 3 are not part of the ruling coalition, and in this sense it seems to me that this law, as a major step on the one hand, really changes the situation, and on the other, the debate itself, the good preparation, the long-standing debate and this present situation in the Croatian Parliament, have opened up the space indeed then and the next step to equalising these rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72812	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72813	Well, my colleague Coleman, I'm going to agree so very briefly, it's obvious that we don't have to be in the same political way to say look, and to be sure that this law is good and that it will bring good changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72814	Dear fellow representative Marija Lugaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72815	Dear colleagues would agree with your debate, but I want to say one thing that I have never been able to say before today, I don't think she was here to discuss. In fact, you said that speaking of the different scope of the rights offered to life partners, or to such a living community, in relation to marriage, you could talk about adopting children, and that this could be interpreted and interpreted as discriminatory compared to the same-sex partners who regulate their relationship through a registered life partnership. I'd just like to say that it seems less to do with the fact that it's about the same-sex partners in life's community as much as it has to do with other things. Why do I think that's the case? Because neither do we have heterosexuals who, for example, are in an extramarital community, which is also a constitutional category, can adopt children. So our adoption of children at this time is not as much about the community as it is about marriage or individual. So we have made a step away from being married to an individual whether it is a single person from a married couple with the consent of a mate or a single one. So it seems to me that this adoption debate has an experiment in one other place on children which is a good focus and legitimately that it has less to do with the fact that we have a community of persons of the same sex because it shows itself that neither the heterosexual community that is not marriage, so the extramarital community can also adopt children. So I don't think it's a question of discrimination between homosexuals but of a slightly different understanding of adoption if we look at a thing on the one hand or optimistic if we look at the development of adoption institutes in Croatian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72816	Thank you, too, dear colleague. It's the Honorable Agent Davorin Mlakar's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72817	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today's topic, without a doubt, is that we are in another time and in another mood, would deserve a speech on freedoms, would be worth talking about rights, and would be worth talking about the wishes of many to whom every regulation that this Parliament makes applies. Unfortunately, as often as ever, rather than debates that would open up, perhaps a little wider to say the door to understanding and exchange opinions, it is not possible to take the impression that many debates went to the point of political position, to defend some views even when he spoke of understanding others in a completely wrong way. You will say many of us are aware of this, all of it is a legitimate parliamentary struggle. Unfortunately, the messages we send to the Croatian public will not make it clearer, so it will not be easier to verify if not before then in the electoral processes, but we will often interpret our words in the media because we are not sure whether our discussions are well transmitted or if people understand that well. I would agree first of all with my colleague Blazekovic because I think he talked about general topics, refraining from what many of you have said, which is individual cases, and now we're going to pull out one heterosexual community, then homosexual, then 12, 16-year-old children's experiences, and so we can argue with certain examples indefinitely, and we won't be any closer to the goal we're aiming for, and that's to bring regulations to citizens' satisfaction. Many of those protectors of minority rights who are mostly very much throats and we have witnessed and recently in quite a certain time are very strong to say so active in Parliament, unfortunately they are tired here around 20.00 hours and are no longer able to defend minorities with that same barbecue as they do when we have a direct television transmission. But still, many of them have received media space with their debates and I agree with Vice President Stazic that the primitive debates will be passed on most often, in these numbers and his interventions when he insults colleagues whom he does not have here, so I will no longer pollemise with him. I would advocate that when all of them defend themselves or stand up in the defense of minorities only mentioned to you, there is one minority by some analysis which we have heard the same as the minority we are talking about today are Croatian voters, citizens of the Republic of Croatia who do not live in the Republic of Croatia, who have been deleted by the move of the same ministry, 400 thousand of them from the list of voters and transferred to some register of voters but have lost their right to participate in the elections unless they are previously registered for elections which is not the obligation of all other citizens in the Republic of Croatia. But that's one minority none of the positions have ever stood for, and I don't think they'll stand for it. A very significant minority. And now we're going to what many surprised especially Vice President Stazic why we said we were against this law. We are not against the protection of minority rights, we are against the law for quite certain reasons. The first many have already mentioned, you boasted about the adoption of the Law on Same-Sex Communities in 2003, 10 or 11 years ago the result of 0 registered such communities. The reasons may be different but the result is in any case defeated. I hope this law doesn't get the same result. I'd like to take a turn why I don't think it's a good idea for the Life Partnership Act to be the same as my colleague Holly used to say. Because in Article 2, you say: "Life partnership is a community of family life of two persons of the same sex who have concluded a life partnership with the competent authority in accordance with the provisions of this Law.". Shorter, life partnership is a life partnership. It's a logical mistake of a circulatory definition that's not allowed. So if you want to define the fundamental institute of this law define it to be understood. You can't define it with the same concept and the same words you're interpreting. And then by following this definition you will see in the law that it is not certain whether these persons register a life partnership or register a life partnership as a community of family life. And now I'd stop by that family life. This government has had phenomenal solutions, and one of these is that the Department of Administration is the holder of this law. That truth in its circle has the personality of citizens as one of the things it deals with and the only thing that has to do with this law. It has lost its negative jurisdiction so it cannot prescribe acts or propose acts that are not in the jurisdiction of other ministries. But it seems to me by all means, allow me, and I allow myself to make a mistake that this is a couple of excellence objects that were to be proposed by the Ministry of Vice-President Milanka Opačić. It seems to me that there's a lot more to talk about family rights, family relations than it is in the Department of Administration. And then maybe the law would be something different. What I think is particularly bad at this law is Article 3 which speaks of informal life partnership. As long as you let me try, I'll explain why. The purpose of passing this law is to make it special to say the endangered categories of our fellow citizens in a way equal to the rights of the others. The main purpose is to register their community. If they need to register it then they need to pass some minimum registration procedure and then in that same law, we are already talking in the opening provisions about the team that we have and the communities that don't register are informal but somewhere it should be guessed that there are three years. It's that bad copying of the Family Law that talks about marriage and the extramarital community where these standards are much more logical than in this case. If we already want to protect people, if we want to guarantee them permanent rights then it's also logical that life partnership is a community that registers. Informal life partnership couldn't guess what it meant. And besides that, and it's one of the great things that makes me feel the mistakes of this law are equalized in rights with the registered community of life. And then in article 76 of that same law, you say that, not to be mistaken, informal life partnerships have the same rights under this law as the formal, among other things, informal life partner can acquire Croatian citizenship under certain terms of the law and that means if his second, informal partner is a Croatian citizen. This right does not even have the extramarital communities that are, so let's say, the institute that has existed in Croatian legislation for a long time, so I don't know how the idea of the right of citizenship as a special right is added to this. What is still related, some property relations, rental agreements where it is said to be extremely concluded with both partners, should of course be specified because it is not clear what it refers to.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72818	Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas. Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72819	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague of the Mlakars, more stuff actually moved me to a replica. One of those is certainly when you were talking about the light cameras of those who defend rights, human rights. I believe that all my colleagues and colleagues who have stayed here, who have debated, who have defended this law have not done so because of the cameras that they have demonstrated by participating in the debate. Furthermore, you were talking about a register of voters, a purified register of voters. I have to look back on that when you've already touched that. You say some have been deleted, have you perhaps thought about those who had residences in the cemetery because they have almost become most of the voters in the Republic of Croatia? Thank God we've worked it out. I have to join the vice president at home and say that I really don't understand, it is for minority rights, you defend them, but you're against the law. You say the legal proposal is irreparable, and on the other hand you don't want to make any of your own proposals. So give your bill of law and let's see, so we'll see what this law looks like in the second reading, so give me the amendments, let's try to make a deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72820	Replica's response, the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72821	Dear colleague Hajdukovic, I am sorry that you do not understand, but your party often has a classic response, you do not understand. I have not said a single word that this law is irreparable, I have said that this law suffers from objections which are absolutely when they were accepted can be entered into the text and that text will be significantly better. Why don't you understand that this law isn't good? He's not good, he's not even logical. He's opposed to some basic logical postulate rules. You can't define life partnership in a way that says life partnership is a life partnership. Don't let me use a harder expression than that it's not the most appropriate way to define terms, if you don't understand. And I was talking about voters who are administratively deleted by imposing on them a right that does not exist and a obligation that does not exist for all voters in the Republic of Croatia. If you live in Croatia, you do not have to sign up to participate in the next parliamentary elections as a voter, but someone living in Germany must do so. When we talk about the protection of rights, about equality from law, we have to keep that minority in mind, and you forget that very often. That's what I was talking about, if you'll be more clear with these arguments, I'd be glad to explain. What we think and this law can be corrected and we are for the protection of minority rights but in a quality way passed by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72822	Honorable representative Igor Coleman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72823	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. A fellow Mlakar, two brief notes. First, political positioning through the values that we represent... is actually the essence of our work and it shouldn't be the subject of an objection. That's exactly what we do and what we're expected to do. And the second note is about these voters. Citizens still exercise their rights in the country by being inhabited, by taxpayers and by their lives being defined and limited by the legislation of that state and in this sense by people who do not live in the Republic of Croatia, in this case, there are certain restrictions in the enjoyment of law. No matter what, no one has actually lost their right to vote, it's just a procedure that's different.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72824	Replica's response, the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72825	Thank you very much. Although fellow Coleman says this is a note and then it's not a replica, I don't know why he even answered. But if we do have a note, I'd be glad to have a new instrument for working and discussing in the Parliament. Comrade Coleman, the equality of all before the law is a constitutional category. If a citizen of the Republic of Croatia who has been recognised by the Constitution has settled in Germany and has to register for the upcoming elections, then you must do the same. If that obligation is not to come to you, and it is to him that they are not equal to the law, that is what I have spoken of. If you do not understand that you may consult the Croatian Constitution, it will be a little clearer. And I absolutely agree that it is our job to protect the political interests of our parties and I have not objected to that. I have only found that often the relationship to the law is manifested as a favor to one or the other side of our political spectrum. There was no objection to that. In fact, I'm very pleased that you react that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72826	Dear colleague of Parliament Marija Lugaric, Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72827	Comrade Mlakar, you have incorrectly established that the 2003 Law on Same-Sex Communities has not met its objective since no such community has been registered. So this is simply incorrect because under the law such communities cannot be registered, they are factually found or proved in a court procedure in the exercise of certain rights, so the conditions for the same-sex community are three years of living together, but what is counted in the law that is simply not registered as such. Secondly, the proposer of the law is the Government, the Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth sits here all day long, so he simply proposes this law to the Government, regardless of which ministry as such was the expert holder. I am pleased to see that this law has worked together not only those two ministries but also the Ministry of Justice and others. And about the definition I think it's very interesting, so I think that the definition of this in Article 2 is not circular at all, so it's a very clear differentiation of specifics, it would be a life-long relationship in front of the competent bodies, the geneus proximum, the community of family life, so the fundamental rule that I can't... define in the same way it's fulfilled, so it's simply not a circular definition, but now it would go into this formal logic, I think half nine o'clock is a little too late for that, but simply the definition is logically correct. And lastly, around the informal life partnership, I see exactly one of the great advantages of this law. If we have chosen to register or as a law to register, as a society to recognize all the forms of family life in which people live, then we simply have to find a place and informal life partnership. It is a legitimate form of life people have certain rights and obligations arising from such a community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72828	Replica's response, the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72829	Well, I'll try it as soon as you can if you can follow me. Page 1. The proposal for a life partnership law says the ministry, or government, which proposes as many ways in which the conditions of the creation of the same-sex community have proved difficult in real life. As a result, we say that since 2003, when the Law on Same-Sex Communities has been passed until today, no single community has been officially confirmed. That's not what the Mlakar wrote. That's what your government sent you. Two. If differentia is specific in the definition of relationship in front of the competent authority, then we don't understand this definition at all. Life partnership is a family life community of two people of the same sex who have concluded a life partnership. In this problem is a colleague, genus proximum and differentia specific here cannot be separated or you cannot, apart from the birth concept, find a specific difference in what you have tried to believe in the best intention to prove to us what it looks like. And finally, if informal communities are what you think is a good solution, and you give them rights that they don't even have, I'd say, I'd say an already established legal institute and like an extramarital community, then we have a problem that you think it's a violation of human rights, and I think it's unacceptable legal uncertainty. I'm not going to refer you to other laws that tell you today that you can change gender without doing a medical procedure and that all the problems that this brings to you later in registering such partnerships. But unfortunately, we don't have time for that, because it's only eight seconds until the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72830	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Peja Grbin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72831	Thank you. Dear fellow Members, if the registration of those citizens of the Republic of Croatia living abroad is discrimination, then discrimination against citizens living in the Republic of Croatia is their obligation to have a ID card or to pay taxes in the Republic of Croatia. So, even among our citizens there are differences and they will exist, but they must be justified, they must have reasons why they are. And this one in terms of voter registration is more than justifiable. As far as the informal community is concerned, I'm going to fix my colleague Lugaric, it's not good, it's a great solution. It is an excellent solution that should be revised into the Family Law and Family Law that we have not yet passed, and we will also discuss it and see how it will eventually result. By my judgment, you should follow this example. But if it doesn't go, there's one very important reason why we have to admit to the informal life union in this case more rights, which is because there will still be pressures in our environment against those persons of the same sex who want to register. And many people of the same sex will not have the courage to register their community in front of a parent for a long time in the Republic of Croatia because they will be aware that such a move will bring many, many unfavourable circumstances to their lives. We want to be a tolerance society, we will one day be. But we still haven't done that yet. And that is why the extramarital and informal life union, although perhaps similar, are not the same and should not necessarily be treated in the same way unless, of course, I will repeat it unless we decide to join the extramarital community to bring them into line with the informal life community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72832	Replica's response, the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72833	Well, I'll try different. This persuasion isn't working. "There's no right between flowers. "That's a smurf-smurf-smurter-smurf-smurf-smurf-smurf-smurf-smurf-smurf-smurf-smurf-smur." This is a comment to you on your statement that they are discriminated against by Croatian citizens in the Republic of Croatia who should, should not be invited to have IDs. You know, anarchy is also a possible condition. But what you're saying is simply a colleague of the coat of arms senseless. Maybe you're trying to fight for the logic of government proposals, and I understand that. But to say that someone is discriminated against because they have certain rights in their country, and you take those same rights when they live outside and you find some comparative advantages for your views I can't practically believe, except when I remember your interpretations of the board you chair, so when you interpret that word that can be announced means yes. Because if you don't announce it, you're losing your right, then I'm more aware of your thinking that leads us all the way away from being sure of the written legislation, and of the work of this House of Representatives as we've at least experienced it so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72834	Dear colleagues and esteemed colleagues, you have opened a topic that is not on the agenda. So erasing a place of residence is a problem no matter how I resent it. The problem is that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are being wiped out of residence in the Republic of Croatia without winning their residence elsewhere. And that problem exists. And if we close our eyes he doesn't exist to us, but he exists. That's another problem from what you're saying. It's something else, it's something else entirely. Now on behalf of the Proposer of the Law, which is on the agenda of the Minister of Administration, the Honorable Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72835	I'm going to try even though I think I'm going to get out of the box a little bit. But then you'll warn me. As for the comments on Articles 2 and 3, we will consider them. I mean, I don't see anything bad about what you said and we're going to try to fix that definition and your debate gives me hope that we can still pass a law that will not only be adopted by representatives of the ruling coalition but also by some parties but also by the biggest opposition party, so we'll see which of the remarks that have been made and which would not come out of that basic definition that I said, so other than marriage and adoption, we won't insist on any other differences and what your party's leaders have made publicly, if that is possible, that we will make a maximum effort to make it so. As far as informal life partnership is concerned, and I agree that there is room to fix but a basic idea and taught by Slovenian experiences because in the first years of their law, informal partnership was more commonly used than registered precisely because of this reason Mr. Grbin said. Our intensity was that, therefore, extramarital communities were brought into some kind of parallel with informal life partnerships, and therefore we will work on it further. Well, about what you said about the voters' register, I said it on the Croatian Committee outside of Croatia, so I'll do it again. The referendum on the definition of marriage in the Constitution should not be because it is a matter of law, as neither the number of three representatives from the diaspora nor the polling places where they can vote should be in the Constitution because it is the issue of the Electoral Law. For the same reason why the definition of marriage is in the Constitution, which is the fear of some that one government with a simple majority would not change, for the same reason is three representatives of the diaspora and the polling stations in diplomatic and consular representations in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I don't think it's a sin to be said like that at all. What is similar is that those who advocated the definition of marriage and those who advocated this definition in the Constitution believe that it is good. But it's not this debate, it could be some other debate. During the debate on the voter register, I called on the constitutional changes that are now and on the agenda to put in place a letter vote so that we can address the problem. As far as I'm concerned, that call is still worth it and that you don't want to be involved in it is different. And in the end as regards the exercise of voting rights, I took two numbers, one number of Croatian citizens who voted in diplomatic and consular representations in the referendum for Croatia's EU entry on 22 January 2012 and the number of Croatian citizens who voted after the amendment of the law in the European Parliament's election and that number is equal, which means that the legal definition of how the voting rights were achieved did not have an impact on the exercise of Croatian citizens' right outside the Republic of Croatia and in that sense confirmed that it was good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72836	Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72837	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I know that you've been more prepared for the voters' lists than the Life Partnership Act, whatever it was called, but since you've already missed the topic, and I'm the one responsible for taking it just for the comparison that you've done, then I'll answer you. According to the latest census in the neighbouring BiH Croats there are 550,000 to me. When you inherited the ministry of voters living outside the Republic of Croatia it was in the list of voters 400 thousand, when you intervened in that list of parliamentary elections left 2247 seem to me. It's a statistically negligible number and the rest are in such a small number because you made a commitment to them to register before they go to the elections and the truth is fear, but this time on your part they got a commitment in the Constitution that they could only vote in diplomatic consular offices abroad, so when we open the cards then say things to the end. Because that's what it is. The diaspora was an electoral body, and let's make sure that the HDZ option is kept off the list of voters and the results are visible. There'll be a problem when they register.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72838	Replication response, Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72839	So, the number of Croatian citizens who have the right to vote today and then when I said you inherited took over abroad about the same. The way they exercise their right to vote is almost equal, i.e. there is one obligation that can be made on the day of elections at diplomatic consular offices. Secondly, I said in the introduction of this law that this proposal was a democratic compromise and the constitutional definition that I was talking about was also a democratic compromise which was the biggest Croatian political parties and the whole parliament at the end because these changes adopted almost by means of a consensus between the fact that the situation which we thought was illogical and between the other options of not allowing at all to vote in the elections for the National Assembly, it is a democratic compromise that supported both the left and right sides of the assembly and with which opposition leader Zoran Milanovic said that we can live for the next 10, 20 or how many years now, so I believe that then the other party can live with it for the next 10 or 20 years, and as far as taking care of Croatian citizens outside Croatia, it seems to me that in the last year the only praise that has come from the order of your party's prime minister is precisely when he went to Mostar, so I believe that there are no big before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72840	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. Honorable representative of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72841	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, I absolutely agree with the speakers who said today that nothing is more important than human rights and freedom and that we absolutely should put it into the priority of all of our activities and that there is no alternative and I always thought that I belonged to those who are not limited and because I never discriminated against anyone, I didn't hate anyone and I don't hate anyone, I'm not homophobe, I'm not intolerant to anyone and I don't feel any intolerance towards any of the members of this country, and I don't hate anyone else in the world. However, I belong to a group of those who voted in favour of the referendum on this last referendum and I would be hypocritical if I were to vote for the adoption of such a law, which is certainly a disregard for the express will of the voter confirmed in the referendum held on 01 December 2013, and in the referendum you know that 65.87% of voters have declared that the constitution establishes that marriage represents a community of women and men and that referendum, the people of this country clearly conveyed a broad value and a real message to the representatives of the public authorities. The proposed law that we are offered here cannot ignore the fact that this text of the law is actually trying to absolutely equalise the different communities, marriages and communities of same-sex couples. This law takes up a number of Institutes for Family Rights and Procedures relating to marriage and marital relations, as well as relations between same-sex couples, in an identical manner only under a different name. Thus, the Life Partnership Act introduces these names that we have heard here several times today, related to the conclusion in front of the parent, the partnership, the establishment of claims for the existence and absence of partnership, the last name, the partnership in front of the parent and the other things relating to the institute that demonstrates a direct attempt at equalising marriage with the same-sex community. What stems from all of this bill's proposal is intended to introduce a marriage between persons of the same sex, i.e. a life partnership that is in everything equal to marriage, only bears that name, and it is an absolute violation of the will shown in the referendum on December 1st, and it absolutely creates the mistrust of people who were on the referendum, but if we remember that night when we heard the results of the referendum, then one of our senior officials said, so it is a referendum and it was brought here by such a majority, but we will regulate it by law and it is interesting that the law comes just this time after that. And whoever has little will and looks at the whole picture of the netly implemented national referendum, it is clear to him that at the referendum held, voters sent a broad message of value on content and protection of marriage. In fact, in many ways, this law promotes family equality as a community of the lives of persons of the same sex and family as a concept of family law. Article 2 is replaced by the following: The family law is clearly prescribed how family relations are regulated and it is pointed out in Article 2(2). Family law that families are not just men and women, but they become a family only when they get a third member, or child. However, the provisions of Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (‘the EEA Agreement’). The Life Partnership Act is prescribed that the life partnership of the family life community is two persons of the same sex, with the same community as the family community being equally equal and thus changing the basic family concept of the Family Law, which is unacceptable. So married men and women are married couples, and those who have concluded a life partnership are same-sex life partners, but that's why they're not family, even though we've seen here today that they're looking for equal rights for all families. Family law needs to be changed. That law also lays down the rights of children, but the provision of the law in which the law is the subject of the law does not mention the arrangement of relations with children at all, which is a significant and certainly remarkable and important part of the law. Here, in view of all of the above, I believe that it is more than obvious that this is the way to manipulate the will of citizens expressed in a referendum, which certainly leads to absolute legal uncertainty and an absolute decision that I cannot support such a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72842	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Tomislav Zhagar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72843	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, I know it's too late to make you very angry, very short. Again, there are a lot of things I disagree with that you've said, especially I'm worried about multiple times you're saying that a referendum is a message from the authorities. Well, every referendum is always a message to people who are in power, but in the context where you say it doesn't really stand because if we remember the referendum question, it said that marriage is a community, a community of men and women, which is, in fact, a logical truth. I'm going to say this now, every square is also a rectangle, but not every rectangle is a square. So when we talk about communities, marriage is a special kind of community, we're talking about other kinds of communities here. I'm not a lawyer, unfortunately, so some things, I didn't even understand some of the things you said, but I don't think there's any need for it, and I've said that before, why create such tensions? Marriage is marriage, people live in communities, different communities, let's let them live in communities. After all, I say that again, I go to a community called marriage, a lot of difficulties in life. I raise two children with my wife, I believe that these people will go through a lot and have a lot of difficulties, so why make it difficult for them? Let's give them minimum rights by this law, and if you have, of course, remarks, that's what the minister said several times, make those remarks, and get them better by the second reading and bring one quality law. Thank you. I'm sorry to...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72844	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72845	So when I said the government's message, 65.87% of the people who delivered an opinion in the referendum, they felt at one point that there was a reason to state that position, to ask for an opinion. The referendum is like in some countries the highest form of democracy where it's logical of the people, so we're not emperors here. It's not a monarchy, so it makes sense that we represent the people, we represent voters, we represent people from some base, so we don't have to hear the opinion of these people anyway. And when I say a message to the authorities, then a clear message to the one who's currently passing the laws. You know that the ruling majority makes laws. We can do it here in Parliament or you many of your party members came to me and voted in favour of the referendum because they had the same opinion. And that in that sense messages from the authorities not as some threat there are no threats. We're the representatives we'll be by a certain time then we won't be anymore, some new ones will come.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72846	Honorable representative Igor Coleman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72847	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Sanader, fully respecting your arguments, but several times in your speech, you said that this Life Partnership Act is equating fully with a marriage that is simply not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72848	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72849	If we're experiencing it like that, I'm experiencing it, I can't actually tell me, but I'm experiencing it because it was a promise. If you remember, and you were all public on television that night said when we got the results of the referendum then it's clear so it's such a referendum but it'll be settled by the laws that it won't be so.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72850	Thank you very much. Honorable Minister Arsen Bauk, final word. Here's a colleague, Maria Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72851	Comrade Sanader, you have completed your debate by finding that this law is a manipulation of the outcome of the referendum. No fellow Sanader, the referendum was a manipulation of the feelings and opinions of most citizens. In the referendum, people voted for the Constitution to enter into the definition of marriage as the life union of men and women, not more or less. They didn't vote, and they could have suggested that it was only a community of men, women, one or more children. That's not what they voted on. Our Constitution, our family law doesn't define family anywhere. On the contrary, our Constitution in Article 35 speaks of a family life community predicating that there are several kinds of communities of family life. And it's not manipulation of this law, but the referendum was manipulation and you're completely twisting the thesis completely wrong, if you'd read one and the other law a little bit, and not reading what was written on behalf of the family that we all got, maybe you'd have made it clearer. Secondly, family equality was said by counterpart Coleman, equating marriage rights and this registered life partnership is not, however, one of the major objections and objections to this law, which he does not exactly equalise all the rights guaranteeing marriage to this registered life partnership. So I repeat to us nowhere in the family law is a family defined. Family has no sign of equality family is a single-parent family, family is a community of persons of the same sex, family are grandparents with children, family is one parent with children, family is a foster parent with a child all it is a family and therefore our Constitution speaks well of communities of family life and not of family and foster parent.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72852	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72853	... I think you're downplaying those 65% of the people who gave their money for the referendum because then you think they're all stupid that the referendum initiative has outsmarted them, and I don't think I can accept that, and that's not true. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Because if that were the case then it would be such a disgrace or such a naive people, and yet our people are not naive.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72854	Please, let the representative finish his thought. Thank you very much. We've exhausted the replica list and the answers to the replica. On behalf of the Proposer, Minister Arsen Bauk, final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72855	Well, I won't be all half an hour, although if I were talking half an hour's debate would have lasted longer than the debate on the Labour Law and two other laws concerning labour law because at 21.25 yesterday it ended. First of all, I'm going to say a little bit about the presentation of Agent Ante Sanader, so when I got the assignment, I was surprised by the former management minister, and first of all, to make a law on registered or life partnership, then I was saying three sentences that the law would not mention family, that it wouldn't be the name of marriage and that it wouldn't be the right to adopt children, that's what I was saying in the beginning. And then my colleagues, who know more about it than I do, warned me that the European Court of Human Rights verdicts are talking about it being a family, and then I stopped speaking this first sentence. So I thought Mr. Representative like you, but they convinced me that I was wrong as you can convince me of something that I'm wrong, not in everything, but there's something you can do. Also, as far as the referendum is concerned, I remember that when that story began that those who organised the initiative were saying exactly what colleagues on the left hand side of the assembly are saying, which is that it is the definition of marriage and that it will have no discrimination on anyone and that it will not have an impact on this law that we are making today. What they said at the time was what we could and we didn't have to believe but fortunately, the Constitutional Court said in November 2013 that we can or do not have to believe but we must respect it. So I am convinced that this law will pass the constitutionality test at least this part of the article that has been completed in the referendum. And even if he doesn't pass that test, then that law won't be in force, so there won't be any damage. As for interpreting the will of those who voted in favour of the referendum there was somewhere from SDP voters according to some surveys 35 to 40% who voted in favour and 60 to 65% who voted against, so somehow, I don't know about other parties, so I heard that information, so I'm transferring it. But of these 65% of the people who went to the referendum and who voted for some are against the adoption of this law and some are not against the adoption of this law. Which is what some of those who voted for said either before the referendum or after the referendum. So I think it's kind of realistic in what I'm saying, so the people who voted for the definition of marriage in the Constitution aren't against it to regulate the rights of same-sex communities and some of them are, some would be against it and there's no referendum. And in all, or most European countries, this topic is causing tensions in Croatia as well. What encourages it is that this debate on a rather sensitive subject has gone through in a very tolerated atmosphere and probably because neither side has fully spoken what I think, which is good, it is a sign that we have learned about compromises and that there is hope that we are talking about other topics as well, which is not bad. I believe that yesterday we would normally have been one of the ambassadors of a European Union country and then we had little information about what we are doing and I mentioned this law that he said that they in their country have a definition, so they have no equal rights but they have something similar to what we are proposing but that there is a civil initiative in the direction of change. And then, of course, I started listening more carefully, and in the third sentence, I realized that the civic initiative was going in terms of equalising rights rather than reducing rights. So I believe that one day we will have a civil initiative in Croatia that may be rights and increase, but I don't think it's crucial at this point. So I think that with this bill of law, we're going to reconcile those greatest tensions that we have around in this respect, and that's what in all countries is, therefore, the right to adopt children or to have relations with children. At this point, we decided to define it exclusively for the children of one of the partners. So, a child who knows who his father is and who his mother is or knows who his mother is but doesn't know who his father is as well as in ordinary relationships or heterosexuals don't know that, not everyone knows that, well. Therefore, the debate has shown that, I think it has shown that the law is well balanced and that, in that sense, it remains for us to not encourage these tensions in any other reading, so I will refrain from characterising that those who vote against are for discrimination. I will refrain from this characterization, and I will maintain that those who vote against are not against the regulation of the rights of same-sex communities but rather have some vision of how it should be done. It's a partial claim, in fact it's quite accurate, and I've never questioned it, and it's that this law wants us to equalize the rights that married communities and same-sex communities have except in two, in two segments, it's a single name, and we can't do it anymore because it would be unconstitutional but we didn't have any intention but well if the organisers of the referendum didn't believe it now they got that and we can't even if we wanted to and we didn't want to, so it doesn't matter. And secondly, the community of two people of the same sex has no right to adopt children because then you wouldn't know who the father is, who the mother is who one of the MPs noticed. In other ways, as I said, we won't insist. And I don't see any reason why they'd insist. So, I don't see why they should register in front of a public notary or I don't know who, because registering in front of a parent is one very practical thing, and then you can check in the queens to see if they're already married and prevent someone who's still married from entering a life partnership, so we're doing it in front of a parent to make it impossible. Second, second, that's what we put on. Secondly, whether a provision should be written in law to do so in a solemn way. So I said to those who would do so in these circumstances in Croatia it is certainly a solemn way and the state has no reason to insist that it should not be. Should the right to inherit property be allowed? I don't see why not. Should the right to a pension likely to be called a family pension if we respect the European Court of Human Rights rulings, I do not see why not. And all other rights other than the right to adopt children, I don't see why not. If there is a reason why not, today is not said, so today there were more nomotechnical remarks rather than these essential ones. And this remains the question that is most sensitive, which is the question of relations with other partners' children regardless of whether it's a male or a female same-sex community. And just the question of the name and there we had the dilemma of what to call, it was a working title registered (life) partnership that was otherwise an inspiration of this sausage in the Constitution of the regional (regional) self-government so when we already have it then we can have it like this, but we are at the request of those to whom it refers that they do not want to register as cars then we put it to be called life partnership. Mirela did, Mrs. Holly suggested returning the name of the same-sex community, if that's the only problem, O.K. I mean.../The speaker shut down and then later turned on./... he had an additional debate. So we have this issue of regulating our relationship with one of our partners' children, and we keep trying to say that it has nothing to do with adoption, and some will keep trying to say that it is a small door adoption. So then to get a space in the media then we say it's not exactly at the small door either through the chimney or through the keyhole or through the window, etc. But it's best on these examples of Nenada and Shime to say, exactly like that, so plastically explain to people and everyone when you confront them with concrete examples then they imagine. So if the mother of a child at one point realizes that she's a lesbian, she's his mother. This other one's nothing to him. And this other one's gonna be nothing to him when he's got a mother. When he doesn't have a mother, this other one can become his mother, because if she adopted him, then he would lose his family ties to his mother's family, but he could become the child's partner, or start a partner's care. Which is better for me than for a child to go to a home. And whether it's better for her to go to her grandparents or for that person, the court will decide in the best interests of the child. It's not a question to me. Therefore, not a couple but an individual who has the right and under the current law to adopt a child, an individual or an individual will receive the right of partner care. I think that's a fair solution to the court's decision. This gives someone a chance to ask for it. As for something called the gender neutrality of life partnership, so the law is written so that it is clear that it refers to both sex communities, the break-up of the same-sex community is something simpler because there are no children in such communities, and then there are no further disputes. Therefore, the moment they conclude that they no longer want to be together it will be done in a very simple and relatively simple way. This debate has shown that Croatian society and the Croatian political scene are mature to discuss sensitive topics tolerantly and in this atmosphere of tolerance, I call on all representatives of the Croatian Parliament to support tomorrow's proposal to conclude that this law is going to a second reading and that all proposals that have been tabled are being considered and that we try to pass the law with as many votes as possible. As for the way the law is passed, I think it's an organic law and it should be passed by procedure for organic laws, but I leave it to the Parliament to define whether that's the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72856	I'm sure it's about human rights and it's gonna be such a respected minister. This is our jurisdiction and our decision, and until the second reading, determine what is content and what is the obligation of one institution and another. First, the replica of Honorable Agent Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72857	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, I am a Christian and the definition of family is clear to me, the family of the Holy Family is clear to me what it is to be a family. And you know, I think you know, the Holy Family was Mary, Joseph and Jesus and from these days to today it's clear what family it is. Maybe some people don't get it, that's not my problem. I believe that the Law on Same-Sex Communities is well regulated, perhaps some other things should be inserted in and regulated in such a way. It remains with the promise of the election, not the election night but the referendum night when it is clearly said that these have not won because we will regulate what marriage is and that is why I think this life partnership has come since then. If you think that they are manipulated who voted in favour, so it would be good now to enlighten how you interpret it or how you think that, if you were to carry out a referendum, with this enlightened question and to see what kind of answer you would get from the Croatian people. And as far as children are concerned, it's absolutely unacceptable for me to regulate it in this way because it's clear what's being thrown out here today about children and children's rights when he has children, you're going to say he doesn't have two moms, but he lives in such a community where two moms or two dads are and that kid has a mom or in that other case he doesn't have a mom at all, and we know what Mom means in our people, what mother is, which is the value of a mother, which is sanctity and I think it's a direct blow to children and children's rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72858	Thank you very much. Replication response, Honored Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72859	Since the end of October 2013, the proposed Life Partnership Act has been on the Ministry of Administration's website, I think it writes in this, so far before the referendum was held, and it began to be debated and about 6 months 2012 when there was no idea of a referendum on the definition of marriage and those who launched the referendum clearly said why they had started it. Among other things, because there were some statements by some heads of government that it might be equal to marriage, so here it is that it will not happen to be a referendum, and they have not declared themselves to this law. As for the definition of family, so everyone has the right to believe and to what they consider to be family. What the authorities must respect are the European Court of Human Rights rulings, whatever they think of them and therefore, it is our job to propose such a definition because I am sure that a different definition would be constitutionally contested and that it would have to change, but I also allow that distinction. Now, about what you said with the kids, so I figured out what's absolutely unacceptable to you. What I didn't realize, what was absolutely acceptable to you in such a situation. Take the child and send him to a home next to a living mother and her partner, what are they doing in Russia? Bann at all to live with them or what? So here I would like to know what to do in such a situation because now the children live, here's colleague Lugaric read, who has their mother and person with whom they live who is a woman. And as they call her, the other one, I leave it to them. If he thinks it should be prohibited by law, I'd like you to say it. So here's my call. If you feel that way, please say it so directly that we are no longer playing hide-and-seek in that sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72860	Honorable representative Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72861	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's the end I didn't mean to answer, but here's a good night for our respected minister, maybe one question. You were wondering if it was possible to call this family. It's not possible to call, because if the knowledge of our society was possible without family. I don't think she would be, she definitely wouldn't be, because family is just a universal social institution and something society can't get to know without. I'm talking and thinking about reproduction now. That's what you're aware of, which is why when you explain it here from this pay phone you're taking with you internal monologues and you can't get away with it no matter what the EU says. And I understand that, I understand you, I understand your worldview, I understand the place of your growing up and the society in which you live, and I agree with that with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72862	Replication response, Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72863	Thank you. I totally understand what you're saying, because I said that's what I was thinking. So my first line was that it would not write a word of family in this law except in calling the Family Law. But my associates faced me with several European Court of Human Rights verdicts, and it was clear to me, I can no longer pronounce it. That's the first one. As far as this internal monologue is concerned, that's what I said. Not everyone said everything they thought, so that's why the debate was so tolerated, and it's good, that there are topics that we can talk about like that. Because that means that we understand each other and that we understand the context in which we are. And as far as your good-night replica is concerned, given that according to the Rules of Procedure, only the president will say what's being discussed tomorrow, and then I'll say good night to all the families and those who feel that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-27-0.u72864	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So we exhausted our desire to discuss the bill. Now we stop. Thank you, everyone. Tomorrow I schedule a new plenary session, the beginning of a session, or a 9.30 session, usually with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of State Administration. It's a first reading, P.Z. No. 619. Thank you very much. I'll see you tomorrow. Proposal for a Life Partnership Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 584. The debate on the proposal is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a Life Partnership Act and 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." By raising our hands, may we please state who's in favor? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most 84 votes in favour, 28 votes against and 1 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion.
