ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u64139	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good morning. We're moving on with the session. Young Novak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u64140	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, I'm looking for a 15-minute break because of the condition in Luci Ploče. Yesterday, all traffic was suspended in Lucy Ploche. The President of the Port Ploche Administration has called for a cry, given that there are currently several ships in Luce Ploče, a large quantity of goods and no single capable locomotive is in that direction, which means the destruction of Luke Ploče, the whole area, but also the further destruction of the national carrier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u64141	Clear Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u64142	The Honorable Madam Vice President and the HDZ Club are also looking for a break, related to the same topic that I do not repeat what my colleague said. Not only because of the situation in Luce Ploče but also because of other legal proposals that come to us from the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Relationships where we see they cause nothing but dissatisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u64143	No more demands? I'll take a break by 9.45. It's 9:00.32. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Now we'll hear the club stand. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u64145	A colleague yesterday, the board of directors of the Ploche port, spoke with a letter he called a protest, though I think you should cry out more. That's the situation, I can quote it. The situation is such that there are currently several ships in the port of Ploče and a large amount of goods but there is currently no locomotive available at the port of Ploče, which means that there is practically a conscious destruction of the port of Ploče and that entire local community and national operator, although we have warned you of this situation very much thanks to your colleagues for being cooperative with a lot of understanding. The situation was the same if you remember in January 2012 when I warned from the same pay phone about the port of Bakar. At the time four ships were in the port of Bakar, HZ infrastructure closed all traffic routes and it was the beginning of the end of HZ CARGO. Why is it done I really don't know if it's clear to anyone but now I'm saying it's not an accident. This is not an accident and the minister has not only a responsibility but I think he should ask and what his role is and what his goal is. Two days ago, Mr. Bajic was here. I believe he'd find material here to start an investigation, to check out what motives someone's been running when they systematically destroy everything that's in his vault, and literally everything from HH. Remember the situation with HAC, highway Rijeka-Zagreb, air traffic, ask for small air carriers. The Transport Committee was scheduled for the first session for a year-and-a-half days, and it was suspended because the minister allegedly had some obligations, will continue in January. It's almost half of February now. It's not gonna happen. The explanation is probably no money. But I'm also showing you this, it's from today's media, the Morning List, which is friendly with our government, which says that the EU has blocked a billion kunas in Croatia because of the Greek software, so because of the inability of the members of the government, and now I call on the Greek minister to take responsibility, he has obviously organisational abilities so let him go, let him solve the panel case because it's already becoming a case. And Minister Hajdas Doncic, who said a few days ago that without remorse, would drive HZ CARGO into bankruptcy, asked if yesterday without remorse he had accepted that 10,000 kuna lunch. What hypocrisy is, two days ago, we had an affair in which the same thing was said here while Mr. Bajic, the same about the bakanalias, people from the same party. What kind of people are these at these moments that I can't mention those famous cars and I don't know what it wasn't, what kind of attitude is that to their own citizens? How much, do you even understand the situation in which the citizens live or are, we are the elite that is simply untouchable. And what kind of attitude towards citizens reminds me of a few cases, not to mention the affair. So you have a case to say in the EPH that forgives or extends debts and forgives the case of the Shagon who is privileged. If I'm not mistaken for 12 kuna, where's the balance? Where is the same relationship with everyone? What this government does, which is the goal of this government, is it really the goal of destroying everything we have. If anyone convinces me of anything else here I take off my hat but give the arguments, the counterarguments for this and from here I invite Mr. Bajic to comb this cabinet because if there's a dirty laundry around here somewhere. I may have forgotten to mention Ris, the Plitvice Motel, where they are also directly through the media apostrophe of government ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u64146	On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u64147	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So announces the shutting down of HZ CARGO another example of the Croatian Government's ignorance and incompetence to address the difficult economic situation in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, shutting down HZ CARGO as announced by Minister Doncic if the restructuring issue is not resolved is dragging behind him and a huge problem in the functioning of the port system in the Republic of Croatia. Without the synergy of all modes of traffic, it is not possible to launch either the Croatian economy or to use the great position of the Republic of Croatia which can represent the neck of Europe. At this moment, huge projects take place in the entire port system in Croatia in almost every Croatian port, from the project in Rijeka, Zadar, Sibenik, Split, Ploča and Dubrovnik. But it is especially important from this aspect of the big investment that is happening in the port of Ploče. Namely, the port of Ploče is at this point the only successful example of a public private partnership where the state invests about 120 million kuna through the competent port administration to build infrastructure for the construction of three terminals, a decommissioned cargo terminal, a terminal for current cargo and a container terminal. On the other hand, the port of Ploče, as a concessionaire, invests an additional 100 million on the purchase of equipment, i.e. port superstructures. At that point, as the project is realised, Minister Doncic announces the decommissioning of Carg which is practically such a huge investment absolutely comes into question because, already because of the disorganization of HZ-Carga, it is not possible to operate with the burden at the port of Ploče and because of the fact that the maneuvering locomotives are not working, it is not possible to extract a burden from the port of Ploče. And last year, over 2 million tonnes of HZ-Cargo was transferred from the port of Ploca to neighbouring BiH. And because of that, it is also this, I would say the cry of the President of the Board and the port of Ploče, who simply does not understand that in such circumstances when the port of Ploče has huge burdens and huge investments, the only operator, the railway operator carrying the cargo from the port of Ploče, is being shut down, and it simply cannot be understood, it does not border with common sense. As far as the restructuring of HZ-Carg itself is concerned, it is planned to fire 1100 workers from it just a third of the workers at the port of Ploče, and HZ-Carg headquarters in the port of Ploče is the most active part of HZ-Carg in the Adriatic Croatia area. And where HZ-Cargo has the biggest job, it is exactly where the business is planned to be abolished and more than 30% of employees and HZ-Cargo headquarters will no longer be in Plots, but moved to another location, where the burdens are reduced, where there is no justification for it. That is why we call on the minister to stop this agony of HZ-Carg, to sit with the unions, to valorise the importance of HZ-Carg for all traffic in the Republic of Croatia, both for maritime transport and for rail transport, and to seriously capture jobs so that all of these projects that I mentioned earlier are at stake. Therefore, when discussing HZ-Carg, it should be borne in mind that the consequences of the shut-down of HZ-Carg will very much be felt by total traffic in the Republic of Croatia, especially maritime transport, especially in the ports where investments of almost 600m euros are currently being developed. Therefore, because of such a reckless move, we are practically questioning the huge investments that are taking place in Croatia, especially in ports that are heavily operated on goods such as the port of Rijeka and the port of Ploče. I think that such a request from the director of the port of Ploče as Parliament's representatives must be supported and a solution must be found as soon as possible in order not to question the business of the port of Ploče, and on the other hand, as I have said, huge investments in the sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u64148	Well, you said yourself that it was a restructuring, not an HZ-Carg shut-down, so you're a little bit of a contradiction. We will now discuss - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, Hungary and the Republic of Austria on the provision of cross-border treatment against offences committed in road traffic, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 595 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received their reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Minister of the Interior, Mr Evelyn Tonkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69517	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. This law confirms the agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Hungary and the Republic of Austria on enabling cross-border treatment of road traffic offences in order to ensure its provisions within the meaning of Article 141(1). The Republic of Croatia has become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The agreement was concluded in Matrahazi, Hungary on 11 October 2012, establishing an international legal framework for Member States' cooperation with the Salzburg Road Transport Forum in accordance with national regulations and international obligations. The cooperation of contracting parties in cross-border proceedings concerns infringements committed in road transport as referred to in Article 2(2). Directive 2011/82 of the EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2011: overdoing speed limits, driving without using a safety belt, passing through red light, driving under the influence of alcohol, driving under the influence of drugs, driving without a helmet, driving a belt in which a mobile phone or other communication device is prohibited. And violations related to the non-cooperation of persons suspected of committing an offence in road traffic with the competent authorities of committing an offence. The agreement also constitutes a element of further promotion and deepening of mutual relations and cooperation between the Signatory States. In view of the nature of the procedures for the confirmation of international contracts, and starting with a common desire to deepen cooperation between the Member States of the Salzburg Road Transport Forum, it is considered that there is an interest of the Republic of Croatia, as soon as all the necessary procedures for the entry into force of the agreement are completed. Therefore, this bill is proposed to discuss and accept the urgent procedure by uniting the first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69518	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Zvonko Milas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69519	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. So definitely that traffic offences are based on human error, non-compliance with traffic regulations, signalling rules are certainly a major problem for road safety and that this agreement is certainly a further step in cooperation between countries that will in some way try to neutralize all the consequences that come through the conduct of violations, non-compliance with traffic rules. The European Commission reported that the number of road traffic deaths in the EU fell by 9% in 2012. But on the roads of Europe, 75 people are killed daily while 10 others are seriously injured on every dead person. In the Republic of Croatia, there is a positive trend in the reduction of the number of people killed in 2012 or, more specifically, 388 lives are lost in traffic, which is approximately the level of suffering in the 1960s, so at a time when traffic was much weaker, much less vehicles, much less intensity. This agreement on the provision of cross-border treatment is aimed at regulating the issue of strengthening traffic security, with the aim of reducing the number of accidents, especially those with the most serious consequences of death, serious injuries or material damage, in order to maintain or continue this positive trend in reducing the number of victims as a result of all that happens by non-compliance with traffic rules and all that traffic regulations impose on us. The establishment of legislation containing sanctions or penalties must be done more than ever through various campaigns to change the awareness of the driver, the need to adhere to traffic rules and prevent information on the consequences of not respecting them. In this extended context, this Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of an Agreement between Bulgaria, Croatia, Hungary and Austria on enabling cross-border treatment of road traffic offences should be observed. Cross-border cooperation is an integral part of the EU's regional policy and aims to improve economic and social cohesion, reduce the negative impact of borders and differences in the level of development of different regions in Europe, and include cooperation on the development and implementation of two or more cross-border partners from regional level. The length of the Republic of Croatia's border definitely requires that cross-border cooperation through various European programmes of the sea and takes a significant role. The countries signatories of this agreement are therefore Bulgaria, Croatia, Hungary, Austria, with the Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia, and the Salzburg Forum of the Informal Group, which discusses issues of their common interest in internal affairs. Croatia became a full member in mid-2012 and has been an observer since 2006. The agreement we are confirming today was signed on 11 June 2012 and it addressed the issues on road transport cooperation and infringements committed under Directive 82/2011 of the EU Parliament and of the Council of 25 June 2011. As the deputy said under that directive, the following infringements and restrictions on the speed of the vehicle, the transition to the sign of red light, security equipment, driver belt, drunk-state driving, mobile use during driving, drug-related driving, in the forbidden direction. This Directive is already integrated into the Croatian legislative system through the latest amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act in the middle of last year. These amendments and amendments to the law enabled citizens to make easier solutions based on requirements for a driving licence, the vehicle booklet was removed as a mandatory document and the information was added to the traffic licence. Furthermore, EU citizens are allowed their driving licence to be a replacement for the Croatian driver's license without being laid down, etc. And on the need for cooperation, perhaps only two small examples where we can say that the Croats are right behind the Romanian people last year... the largest number of punishments due to violations on Slovenian roads or in this context can say that according to the 2007 data, the largest number of traffic accidents on Croatian roads caused citizens of Slovenia during the trip to the sea. So cooperation must exist. But here's to go back to the topic, cooperation in cross-border traffic management under the agreement involves cross-border investigations of the offences committed, as well as cross-border enforcement of decisions enforcing fines for traffic offences or exchange of information on traffic offences. The executing States shall have the right to refuse enforcement under certain circumstances, e.g. where the data in the decision are incomplete, where, according to the national law of the executing State, the time limit for the execution of the decision or where the prescribed fine exceeds the amount of 50 euros or the corresponding amount in the second currency has expired. The decision-making state shall provide a decision and additional information if there is a State of enforcement on request. In order to further strengthen road safety in a particular region, it is necessary to consider in the field of EU Member States the possibility of harmonising transport rules that would apply to all EU Member States. Similarly, it would be good to ensure uniform treatment of traffic offenders regardless of the Member State in which the vehicle is registered and, of course, continue to work to strengthen and develop an effective exchange of information. The new traffic rules, including this Agreement, allow for more effective punishment of drivers who commit offences outside the borders of their country and facilitate cross-border exchanges of information on traffic offences and all with the ultimate objective of reducing the number of traffic offences, hence the most serious consequences of human lives, which is certainly to be welcomed. Accordingly, the HDZ Club will support this final bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69520	Thank you. Replica Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69521	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Miles, you were talking about traffic safety. I'm going to expand this topic a little bit when we're talking about traffic security, which I think is the time for this issue to be updated, and that's the question of road closure. So in Croatia, we have a situation where the highway is closed at a stronger storm and that the circulation of the circulation towards Dalmatia and from Dalmatia towards continental Croatia is actually interrupted, so according to Lica. But why is that happening? Because of the heavy storm strikes, it can be closed to vehicles that are, quite certainly, big ones that have big tens. It's trucks, buses, etc. which can indeed be turned over and thrown from the side of the road, etc. So that's justifiable. However, it is completely unwarranted to stop, block the traffic of personal vehicles. Moreover, the matter is even worse by closing roads most often from Maslenica towards St. These same cars are sent to a 10 times worse road, 10 times more insecure, 10 times the worse road these same trucks are driving in, those same cars. Car accidents happen very often there. There is no case in the EU, and there are also very strong winds in the EU and over 100km per hour so that no one closes the highways anywhere. They warn, of course, that you need to slow down, adjust driving, and maybe even 20 an hour or 40. But the drive from the main road, from the highway that is safest in all respects and best maintained, should best be to keep passengers on the side road that is far worse, which is not even normal for traffic is indeed inappropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69522	Thank you very much. My colleague Miles didn't even talk about it. Replication response, Tinker Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69523	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Matušić, I can agree with you. The fact that I am not a traffic expert and that the profession is likely to condition such moves, i.e. closing the highway. Safety is, above all, the most important and necessary. A man’s life if he suffers for sure that then it is in vain to talk about whether it was necessary or not. But on the other hand, moving or rerouting to roads that are even worse, even more unquality where accidents happen again is not that solution either. So you should probably do a little work and think about what the best solution is in such cases. Do you really close due to the shock of the storm, and you probably experienced a lot during your journey from the south to Zagreb. Do you need to close it or not? I think it's very hard for me to answer as a man who still doesn't care, but surely you need to find some solution because he probably didn't even send them to even worse roads where what's going on is happening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69524	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, colleague Igor Coleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69525	I would like to thank the esteemed Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, esteemed Deputy Minister Mr. Tonkovic. This could, of course, be another one of those agreements that we usually do in the Assembly, most often without a special debate, and we unanimously adopt. But still a few of us needed to say something, and then let me have a few minutes on behalf of the HNS Club. This agreement, therefore, aims to develop and strengthen road transport cooperation, according to the opening statement, although not to lie to each other, is in fact co-operation comes down to cross-border payment of fines. However, both Mr. Tonkovic and Mr. Milas have mentioned what offences are involved and this is indeed the most serious offenses that are listed in all traffic accident statistics as the most common causes of precisely those traffic accidents which result in injury or unfortunately death of participants. In addition, the law also refers to the part of the non-cooperation, i.e. the participation of the owner or other persons in relation to the vehicle to which the offence was committed. The basic business that the agreement regulates is the identification of drivers and the decision-making of various variants. I guess that's what this is really about, so these fines. However, there are two things that are not fully visible to me, to us in this agreement, and that is how people protect themselves. I don't quite understand how we as citizens in these situations protect ourselves. In other words, who do we complain to? Do we appeal to the court of the land in which we live? Do we appeal to the court of the land in which the offence was committed? How the national judiciary acts since the infringements are not equally regulated in various countries. It is not defined at all, the same things are not at all infringements in different countries, and even if they are treated differently, they are punished differently, they are attributed to a different seriousness. So it seems to me that some of the things that might have to be visible in such an agreement and clearly not seen from it. And in that sense, I generally want to warn, and I will slowly end up being rational with time, but I want to warn one of us seems to be a very serious problem. The European policy and in this sense Croatia is in a better situation than a good part of European countries. It's getting more and more pressure, different kinds of pressure, drivers and car owners. What is happening is that under the exception of safety, health and environmental protection, which is that we do not misread the most values that should certainly be protected, but under the exception of the protection of these values, drivers and car owners are constantly imposing increasingly stricter rules and increasingly sophisticated systems of their implementation. And unfortunately, all of this usually ends with drivers paying more and more taxes, taxes, excise duties, tolls, train fares, environmental taxes, fees and rents, entrances to cities, exits from cities, expensive parking and all the way to the penalties that we're talking about here today. And what we don't really know is where that money's going, and does what we've been charged under security really go to increase security, does what we've been charged under the exception of environmental protection really go to environmental protection? It seems to me, too, that European drivers have actually become some kind of milk cow and under the cover of higher values of health and environmental safety is actually a very perceptive process of an undetectable but systematic increase in tax burden. So to conclude, all that concerns the increase in road safety, in this context and this bill, the HNS will, of course, support and support. But everything that starts in its implementation and applies to look and turn into additional ways of silent taxation, in additional ways of unnecessary exchange of data on people and their property and their movement, which is also a potential danger here and any restriction on the freedom of the people of the HNS will not support it either in the Croatian or European political frameworks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69526	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69527	Thank you. Well, you've actually raised key issues that are really important for Croatian citizens, which concerns this bill or cooperation with the countries mentioned in the proposal. It is indeed the impression that it is ultimately the fact that Croatian citizens will fill the budget of foreign states without having the mechanisms of protection, the legal protection they have in Croatia. There's a feeling that it's really about that. I want to believe, however, that it is a matter of traffic safety and improving the conditions of traffic safety. However, this is a really wide topic and all those who travel across different EU countries know what rules apply, so let's say in Germany you have a lot of shares where there are no limits at all, no restrictions. And on those stocks, there aren't so many accidents or dead people on those stocks. So there are far more dangerous stocks and traffic safety should really be taken into account because every year in the EU I think that a city of the middle size of people is losing lives. So it's really a priority issue and it needs to be harmonised, but it really takes care of what you're actually talking about here, and that's the issue of fundamental freedom of human rights, the issue of protection of rights. And in that sense, here is support for what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69528	Replication response, Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69529	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Matušić, in large part, agrees with you although it seems to me in one part that you are wrong, from reading this agreement, it is my impression that punishment is being paid into the country's budget of execution, right, so actually if I am a Croatian citizen, then the punishment actually goes to our budget. But in principle, what I agree with you is that in situations like this, it is always important to be careful that under the exception of one thing, protection of one value does not actually happen to us to endanger another value. You were talking about traffic safety, I saw a few years ago, I didn't just check it out, but the data from a few years ago is that the lowest rate or among the lowest rates of death in the EU has a UK which, for example, has a blood alcohol content of 0.8. So Europe's largest. Which has one of the worst weather conditions in the EU, therefore the assumption would be. But it still has a minimum mortality rate. It just means, what I mean by that, is that the safety of road traffic isn't just Yeah, they're driving backwards. [[/Intruder: They're driving backwards.]] The safety of road traffic is not just a matter of collecting fines. And in that sense, I always warn that we do not need those who pass laws, who make regulations, we must always be careful not to be covered up as road safety in fact by, say, additional taxation or additional collection of money to citizens through these diverse models, and everything is under cover of high value, which in itself is not and cannot be questionable. Here, we agree so much. And I think our job is to keep an eye on that kind of thing when it comes to law-making.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69530	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club Drazenko Pandek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69531	I would like to thank the honourable Vice-President of the Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. Not to repeat myself to a much-respected deputy minister and esteemed colleague Milas and other colleagues who participated in the debate have already said a lot about some of the details of this agreement. What I would especially like to point out once again is that this agreement applies to cooperation when it comes to really those most serious offences as already mentioned through the red light, driving under the influence of alcohol, under the influence of intoxicating drugs, driving in the forbidden direction. So it's about violations that can really seriously endanger drivers or other traffic users themselves. Therefore, it is not a violation such as a false parking or other offences which cannot have as serious a consequence as these. Of course, this text of the agreement can only be accepted or rejected, there is no possibility of intervention because the infringements referred to in Article 2 of the Directive are therefore transferred. Personally, I would like to have it there, that there is also a reported violation of a ride that can also cause serious consequences in traffic. Therefore, the aim of the conclusion of this agreement is to develop, strengthen cooperation in the field of road safety. The co-operation focuses primarily on the fact that the perpetrators of certain road traffic offences do not go unfavourably, that they do not go unpunished. As the transport link between these countries that are members of the agreement is quite good today, it is certain that the perpetrator of a certain offence which can cause very serious consequences can very quickly leave the country of initiation in one day can even cross over several signatories of the agreement. And without the conclusion of this agreement, without the adoption of this agreement it is quite reasonable to assume that even a considerable number of those persons who commit a traffic violation on the ground and then go to another could be left without sanctions. In the end, I think this could lead to quite a casual perhaps and a smooth understanding of the ban on certain behaviour in road traffic, and I think this agreement is quite an improvement in the field of prevention. So, there is no impression that the offence committed, for example, is being committed. in Slovenia and you go further to the East, and you think I won't go back a year to Slovenia, so I'm going to be unpunished, so I can either pull or go through the red, I'm in a hurry, so nothing's going to happen to anyone. I think, however, that in principle, we can all agree that prevention is the most important objective of any penal policy. So the aim of any penal policy, and I certainly don't think of this agreement, is that it's not punishment, therefore, repression, but it's precisely action that prevents potential perpetrators from knowing that this understanding of traffic regulations will not go lightly, but that even when they come or return from summering from Croatia to their country or go through Croatia that it will not happen just as a violation of traffic regulations will go unsanctioned. This agreement allows the handling of road traffic offences in cases where the national legislation of the State of initiation requires the identification of the driver to be identified and where we are becoming more and more frequent recording of the infringements of video surveillance. Clearly, without allowing cooperation between the countries in the field of identification of the perpetrators, it would not be possible to sanction an infringement whose initiation has established such video surveillance if, therefore, the perpetrator has a residence in another country. So a large number of such violations would remain unsanitary. This agreement also facilitates and allows for a more efficient delivery that will be possible now and directly without using how I understood diplomatic channels how it is common when the authorities of one country need to deliver documents to citizens of another country. So this process will make it more efficient and faster. In conclusion, I would say that the objective of this agreement is, in particular, the obvious support for the prevention policy, and we can conclude this on our own from a provision that provides that the funds provided for in the implementation of the decision belong to the first order of the State of enforcement of the decision. So there is no danger that someone will repress the citizens of another country and stop them only to collect the fines and to get the funds they receive from criminal penalties into the budget. It was in previous discussions that fear was expressed precisely by such a policy so that penalties were prescribed for financial effects. I don't think that's the case here, and I also think that when it comes to imposing an obligation on environmental protection, for example. I think that in most of these cases as well as when we had the law here in the Croatian Parliament concerning the relief of obligations or excise duty policy towards the import of the vehicle. Therefore, by making it easier to import vehicles that are more environmentally friendly to the environment, the aim of increased burdens on non-organic vehicles and not ecological modes of transport is to popularise or encourage citizens to precisely use those modes of transport and those vehicles that are, which have better effects on the protection of the environment. There must not be, of course, a policy in the field of transport security or in the field of environmental protection or other transport policy, the filling of the national budget. But if we take this example of sanctioning violations, clearly in other traffic policies, it would be much better to act affirmatively if someone were to be reviled for certain behavior. Clearly in the area of traffic security, this should mean that you reward people who drive correctly, whether cashed or otherwise, clearly no country applies it because it would simply be unsustainable. Nor in the area of other transport policies, for example. to reward people who buy environmental vehicles or who less use cars within city centres or where there is greater air or environment pollution. Clearly, the state needs to be rich, the city needs to be rich so that it can somehow reward and act affirmably against such behaviors. Clearly, each country is easier and much more developed and richer countries and cities, such as those. London or Great Britain or Germany, that they still act pent-up towards those who act irrationally or who threaten any traffic, whether the environment. I stress that if this is just the goal of collecting certain fiscal instructions for the state budget, then it is a missed policy, it should be condemned. But if these levers are just an instrument for better traffic safety behaviour or better environmental behaviour, then I think they are necessary and necessary. To repeat, it is my impression that the objective of this agreement is not to provide financial revenue to the budget, but to just prevent the avoidance, sanctioning of violations and to prevent the easy understanding of the conduct of the infringements. For these reasons, the SDP club will support the confirmation of this contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69532	The replica Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69533	Thank you, Madam Vice President. It's very short because everyone's already warning me it's Friday, but my colleague Pandek was talking about excise duties and that's something we talked about, so that's the whole set that's actually the safety of road traffic. We heard today in one of the previous exhibitions that the EU recorded a fall died. One of the factors that have an important impact on this is the increasing safety of the vehicle, the more recent they are, the safer, the more active and passive security technologies they are. In Croatia, we have very old compared to the European average rolling stock of questionable technical regularity and the question is whether long-term benefits for both safety and the health system and for, ultimately, environmental protection and all other systems involved would not be to reduce costs on new vehicles so that people can drive in safer and better quality cars, but rather those one-time, short-term planned, actually revenue from excise duties which is the issue in the medium and long term whether they have the best possible and most effective result.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69534	The answer to the replica Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69535	... when we touched on the excise issues that were held a few months ago at the debate here in Parliament and I personally and a lot of colleagues advocated, so that the excise system is made so difficult to purchase vehicles that emit large amounts of CO2. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[/Break Zgrebec: Turn on the microphone colleague. Turn on the microphone.]] I note that vehicles that emit large amounts of CO2, are large, powerful vehicles with stronger engines that develop and higher speeds and logically pose greater risks to transport. If you buy vehicles that have less power, which have electric motors and which are smaller than that, so these excise duties are aimed at essentially preventing people from buying, for example. turrets. Hence, the safety of the vehicle and the safety of the traffic are also encouraged by the introduction of such a system of excise duties which penalises the purchase of vehicles that emit large amounts of CO2.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69536	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69537	Thank you. My colleague Pandek, here's similar to my colleague Coleman, I think that actually this excise system is exclusively focused on how to take the money and fill the budget, not on driving better vehicles. Because look, the excise duty on those vehicles that are hybrid vehicles, so not electric vehicles, which are the most expensive, so those vehicles are the most expensive on the market, are much more expensive than petrol or diesel vehicles. So they're much more expensive. The second thing, in the case of excise duties, is such a law that you do not recognise the price if you say someone, a Croatian citizen goes to buy a car in Germany a year old, which is certainly quality and excellently made, the Croatian state does not recognise the price he pays there with an authorised distributor. Therefore, he does not admit it but serves as a reckoning the price that is in Croatia. What logic is that? So, you pay normally in the EU, pay the price directly in the distributor, say BMW, Mercedes or Opel, or anyone else, and that price does not recognise the Croatian budget, but that price that is on the Croatian market, which is 30% more expensive than that price that is in Germany. So it's exclusively going towards taking the money, and what's the consequence? The result is that fewer new cars are being bought, see only the car market in Croatia, which fell 30% compared to last year alone. And compared to the previous years that I'm not talking, you've led to a collapse with such a excise system, you've led to a collapse of car sales, and thus you've endangered road safety in the Republic of Croatia because it's true, Ford said, the best car is a new car. That's what Ford said. Take a look at the average age of cars in Croatia. Therefore, it is absolutely inappropriate to claim that this will actually increase safety and that environmental protection will be better, it is not true, in practice it is quite different. It is only the basis of excise duties that wants to take more money than Croatian citizens, which is how car sales in Croatia are stifled.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69538	Replication response, Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69539	Thank you. I would not agree with you that the excise tax system that was introduced by law a few months ago was aimed exclusively at filling the budget. Even before the elections, I was involved in some initiatives that went towards passing such a law, but in an even more rigid form. As I was referred to the subject, I had the opportunity to make sure on the basis of some calculations that even classic middle-class cars, therefore with a esteemed petrol engine, therefore the most modern technical achievements in the field of environmental protection were significant, so they were cheaped by the introduction of such excise duties. And the excise duty system in Croatia I think it must be focused on people buying cars here, new cars, not importing old or bad cars that often as we know from newspapers can be manipulated by the number of kilometers on the counter, so that we drive cars for waste from Western Europe. However, it should be noted that by now entering the EU it is also easier to import somewhat used cars because there is no longer customs duty, there is no longer any mandatory type-approval for all those vehicles already registered in the EU, and on the other hand I do not think your argument is that imports of even these vehicles from the EU are now under new rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69540	We're moving on to an individual debate. My colleague Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69541	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. I would continue with this agreement two types of questions. On the one hand, the form in which we bring this agreement, and on the other hand, the issue of implementation. It seems to me here that the law on confirming the agreement is simply an inadequate form. A normal one of the dictionaries and behaviors would be a ratification of the agreement. It is therefore evident from what the Vice-President said, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. There's no amendment here. Amendments can be submitted to the law, not to the agreement. On the other hand, it's totally pointless or excessive first and second reading then. However, this raises another question, how are these agreements being prepared? It would be normal for the draft agreement before the Minister or I don't know who is already signing it to come to or at the smallest at the home council or plenary session if it comes to some more complex or important agreements. In my view, therefore, it is entirely wrong to talk about laws here, especially in the very article of the 15th Agreement, where it is asked of parties, of countries to submit a correction to ratification, acceptance or approval. So it can be called ratification, it can be called acceptance, it can be called approval, but not law. How far we have gone in this prenup, or we want to declare everything by law, take just what was discussed last week on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of a letter of consent on the implementation of the law. In other words, we pass the law that we will enforce the law. This madness is bureaucratizing the Parliament, these relations and order would be to agree once again that this category of agreement is going as a ratification, to go in a shorter procedure if all clubs in the Assembly agree to agree that this will go in a brief process and simply save our own time and be more effective. On the other hand, when it comes to the implementation of this agreement, look here we have a series of problems on the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security that we did not get answers when we discussed it. Let's say we set up a national contact centre under this agreement. It was a question of who it would be, which the minister would determine. The application of this Agreement shall take place in three months. The National Contact Centre will accept all these requests in electronic form, exchange of data on infringements, identification of vehicles, drivers etc. and it is an obligation to receive or exchange such data through the Safe Interoperable Electronic Centre. Who is this center? Where's that center? Does this center have a security communication certificate? We didn't get an answer. Furthermore, the persons to whom the data concerned have committed these offences, and we must be aware that this will be much more, year by year a much larger number, under this agreement have the right to access all these data in order to correct, delete, block, etc. The question was, who's a good person to talk to? You know the answer, so there's a law on the right to access information, so you can go there. In other words, I go to Austria, I commit a violation, I come back to Austria in seven days, then they, I'm here to settle those debts, and they're going to put me up there, and then I'm going to call for access to information, and then I'm going to get that in 15 days or when. Not to mention that no assessment has been made which is the amount of data, which is the necessary capacity, which will be the cost of costing, and even here there is no formula that usually goes with it but there will be no additional cost for the budget or I don't know what. It will be because people in the ministries or the police are doing their jobs, they have it over their heads, and this will be another extra job, and there is no projection at all what this job is going to be, how many people it's going to be, how much it's going to cost, what their resources are, etc. So these are all the questions that if we changed our approach, we would change logic if we were to do all these preparations before signing, and then we would be far more efficient and efficient, and this way we would pass a law that would simply lose ourselves in the crowd of other laws, and then we would complain that we were bureaucratized, ineffective, and I don't know who would blame us all. So in my opinion, my proposal is to change this practice of adopting the Law on Agreements because it's ratification, ratification of these acts. And on the other hand, in order for Parliament to be able to participate and participate in this in the right way, it is necessary that even before they are signed to come to the minimum consideration of the parent committees, if not at the plenary session, and that all of these agreements are not accepted if they do not have the embodies and answers to these implications that they carry with them. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69542	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69543	I thank my colleague Tudjman. I think from your exposure it's easy to conclude that in fact in ratification or confirmation of this agreement we enter unprepared, obviously unprepared. We are pushing into an international agreement that will have absolutely certain and financial consequences for both Croatian citizens and the Republic of Croatia. And in that sense, I am really interested in saying whether the Austrians, their Parliament, participated in the preparation of the text of this agreement. In any case, you've noticed exactly that we can absolutely just say that it's about ratification, not at all about the law, because we can't, the instruments that we normally have at our disposal in lawmaking like the amendment and other things. So we can't apply at all in this case, so it's not even the exact name of the point. But once again, I will return to the security I was talking about, the security of traffic and the rerouting of traffic from the A1 highway to the state road towards Grazac. It's not my thinking, it's not just my thinking. I also listened to Professor Marusic from the Faculty of Transport in Split, so he expressed himself absolutely negatively in terms of rerouting the traffic from the highway, especially private cars. So, personal cars have no reason not to keep driving around A1 when it's the strongest storm, when they're the strongest storm strikes. Because these winds happen on all roads, on all highways in Europe, and they don't close. In Austria, in Austria you have such blows of winds through the gorge that it is simply significantly stronger than it is, say, a storm storm on A1 below St. The hand. So you really need to think, you need to see how you actually improve traffic safety. When this is done, safety will be improved because a personal car will not go on a worse road, but will continue to traffic on a better road.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69544	Thank you very much. Comrade Matušić, I already told you once that you abused the replica, because you did not, because you were talking about something that was not in the basic exhibition. If you want to argue, please report for the debate and use the replica. The answer to the line by Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69545	Thank you, Madam Vice President. As far as this first part of the relationship is concerned, how other countries have adopted this Agreement and in what form the answer is I don't know because we didn't get that information. But it is assumed, given that the agreement states that ratification and acceptance or consent should be given, it is assumed that no law and legal form is expected. On the other hand, what about this law is what's kind of good is that it's going to charge the country not in which the offence was committed but where this is the residence of the driver or the person who committed the offence. But there's one problem that I don't think there were any words, which should be considered what happens if there's a race in charge of violations. Because it is assumed that Croatia as a tourist country will have over the summer, in the season there will be a large number of foreigners, and then it will also try to compensate its financial balance with those violations that Croatian drivers will commit outside. So there's a number of things to take care of, and we're just getting into something without knowing what the consequences are and what the outcomes are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69546	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69547	Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, Hungary and the Republic of Austria on enabling cross-border treatment of offences committed in road transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 595. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 114 votes to pass the Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, Hungary and the Republic of Austria on allowing cross-border treatment of offences committed in road transport in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69548	We will now discuss - Proposal for a decision on a spatial plan of the area of special features of Nature Park Telaščica The motioner of the decision is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this Decision. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, and you received reports at the session. The opening proposal for a decision will be explained by the Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning Mrs Anka Mrak Taritas. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69549	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We have before us a proposal for a spatial plan of the area of special features of Nature Park Telaščica. It is a park of nature that was declared such in 1988 when the part was excluded from the Kornati National Park. It is a spatial coverage of 70 square kilometers and it is a completely covered area, i.e. the NATURA 2000 area. Equally, conservation areas are important for birds, wild species, and habitat types. We have 15 types of habitat, 10 of which are endangered and protected at European or national level. And what we need to know is that from prehistory in the Tellasca area, we have traces that he used man. That means she was partially populated. '92. The year was a spatial plan that unfortunately didn't go through all the procedures and was never adopted as such. In 2010, the first previous debate was held on this proposal for a spatial plan. The second previous debate was held in March 2013 in order to hold a public debate with public exposure in the rooms of the Municipality of Sali from 10 June to 9 July 2013. In the public debate proceedings, 28 remarks were accepted, 1 was partially accepted, and 11 were interpreted. A series of backgrounds is from conservation to basic environmental studies to professional backgrounds with a proposal for conditions and measures to protect nature which were actually the basis for a plan that we have the opportunity to see and what plan it is. So it's a spatial plan that covers 70 square miles, as I said, covers an area of 15 islands and 4 rocks, divided into 3 island groups. It is an island group of Telaščica Bay, an island group between the island of Kornat and the Dugi Otok and the island group towards the open sea from the Dugi Otok. When it comes to the zone from the aspect of nature protection, it is divided into three zones. Areas of strict protection, zone-oriented protection and use zone. The strict protection zone also has two sub-areas, sub-area A and sub-area B. There are only allowed activities related to scientific research and monitoring of biodiversity and is about 1.12% of the area. The protection zone is 97.8% of the park area is intended for certain activities but absolutely under strict regulation and according to the supervision of the public institution. And then we have that use zone, in procedures it's below 1%, actually 0.96%. When it comes to the use zone, then you must know that these are the spaces intended for the locations important for the management of the park. They're also areas of traditional settlements. So they are not classic building areas but are areas of traditional settlements where data already exists and where constructions that can be reconstructed are already found and can remain in the function of Nature Park Telaščica. What is extremely important, to make a good visiting system that was made here in this proposal of the spatial plan. The same special attention should also be given to the infrastructure system and so on from the planning aspect, i.e. through the spatial plan of clearly defined provisions relating to water supply, i.e. disposal. It's a very sensitive space. So here is the first time we have the opportunity to propose a spatial plan of Nature Park Telaščica in an area of 70 square miles. It is an area that is extremely attractive about tourist use, especially the cove of Mir which has been visited in the summer period. And this spatial plan will be the basis for all the activities that are happening there to be regulated and adequate for such space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69550	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, President Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69551	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament. At its 28th session of 30 January this year, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly discussed the proposal for a Decision on the adoption of a Spatial Plan of the area of special feature of Nature Park Telaščica, in accordance with the provisions of Article 93. Rules of Procedure as a parent body. In the opening statement of the applicant's representative, he served as Deputy Minister of Construction, gave the initial grounds for the proposed document, noting that the decision proposed by the present proposal to adopt the Spatial Plan of the Special Characteristics of Nature Park Telaščica under Article 188. In the light of the above, the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, nor does it constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The draft plan consists of texts, logigraphic part and will be published for the extensiveness of materials in the National Journal only a decision on the adoption and implementation of the plan, and the rest will be kept in the Croatian Parliament, the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning and the Ministry of Environmental and Nature Protection, the Institute for Spatial Planning of Zadar County and the public establishment of the Park of Nature Telaščica. The proposal lays down the basics of the arrangement, use and protection of the value of this space, as well as the possibility of tourist use and tour of nature parks based on an analysis of the specificity and value of the space, assessing the possibility of limiting the use of space, including restrictions in the handling of certain activities. The plan includes, of course, protection from activities that could distort the values of space, as well as the protection of natural cultural goods by certain parts and in full terms and includes and regulates the rational use of the space envisaged for the construction, restoration of valuable abandoned buildings and construction assemblies and the implementation of necessary procedures in space. The representative of the Croatian Institute for Spatial Development in the opening part also stressed that the area of the park is within the scope of the ecological network and represents a potential area of NATURA 2000 where protection measures set out in the applicable regulation on the declaration of the ecological network will apply. For the area within the scope, protection measures shall apply in accordance with the category of nature park. The spatial nature park plan refers to a total area of 70 square km and within the limits of a certain Nature Park Law, Telaščica and within the limits of a certain Nature Park Law and is the result of a series of professional and conservative bases and studies and outcomes of the opinions of competent ministries, as well as the final and evaluation of the advice of the spatial planning of the state. In the design of the proposed plan, the starting point was to respect all the requirements relating to nature protection, respect for landscape values, organisation of existing traditional parts and settlements, registration of the typeology of found buildings and anchors with the aim of preserving cultural historical heritage in the park of the nature of Telaščica. In particular, the distinctions of space according to purpose and method of space use and degree of protection, or for the nation to the zones as we have already highlighted, are highlighted, in areas of strict protection, in moderation and in the area of use. In the public debate process, requirements stemming from the need to protect culture and natural heritage and the requirements of landowners who showed an interest in building accommodation facilities should be met. The debate that followed raised the question of the fate of private buildings that do not fit into the existing cultural heritage and landscape of nature parks and following numerous examples of different construction styles in the coastal area. According to the response we received or which is given, there is a professional background and a elaborate on all existing buildings that have passed the evaluation and according to the existing images there are no buildings that deviate from the set standards. And on the question of whether this plan provides for the protection of nature by limiting the number of visitors in view of some endemic species in the park, it is responsible that the plan does not include restrictions on the number of tourist visits but intensive research is being carried out and this decision is left in the domain of the management of the public institution of the Park of Nature Telasčica. And here after the debate was held, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament unanimously proposed that this decision be taken by the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69552	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a colleague of Ante Jerolimov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69553	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is a proposal for a Decision on the adoption of a spatial plan for the area of special features of the Nature Park Telaščica and allow me just a few words about the park. According to the minister, the park was founded in 88 years and was created by the splitting of the national park Kornati area of 70 km square, one third covering the mainland and two thirds of the sea. It consists of 15 islands and 4 islands and rocks. Unfortunately, since its draft park, there is no spatial plan and is managed by the basis of the Internal Order Regulations, the Statute of a Public Institution, the Nature Protection Act, the Maritime Good and the Sea Fishing Act. The public institution, apart from basic activity, the preservation of protected space and the collection of tickets to the nature park is also engaged in a service catering activity in such a way as to manage the former camp and now the restaurant in the bay of Mir and the signal station Grpašačak, which is an old Austro-Hungarian fortress and which serves for the excursion and views. There the season starts for Easter and lasts until October and besides the stated activities of the public institution it also deals with the acceptance of tourist boats with hikers as well as individual ships in the area of the entire bay. In the season, they employed about a dozen employees and in 2013, they had 70,000 hikers, organized on excursion ships and 30,000 visitors staying on their own ships, which is an increase of 8% compared to 2012. Last year's Nature Park worked on a ten-year management plan and all indicators suggest that this area of the park is dedicated to an increasing number of guests from year to year and that it is necessary to increase the number of access points and accompanying facilities so that all guests and all hikers can be accepted. It is also one of the reasons why a spatial plan must be adopted as a basic document of nature park management. The spacious nature park plan has more objectives, from preserving and promoting indigenous values to preserving and protecting habitats, wild flora and fauna, to a better and more lucrative use of space based on sustainable development, as well as opportunities that open up to public institutions and all locals to legally reconstruct their facilities and adapt them to today's needs in tourism. It is important to say about the plan itself that it was adopted by means of the Law on Spatial Planning and Regulation means that the plan in question has passed the public debate procedure, public insight and public exposure, and 28 observations have come to it from which 16 were accepted, one was partially rejected and 11 were rejected. In the provisions for implementation of the plan, the plan is divided into three zones and this area of strict protection, an area-oriented protection and an area of use to say that this area of use has indeed fallen 1% of the total share of the entire park area, and 0.96% of the area of strict and targeted protection in articles 11-17 are well defined and allow various activities through regulation and supervision of the public institution and obliges maintenance of traditional agriculture and prohibiting the re-use of areas under vineyards and olive groves which we consider to be more than good. The area of use between all other zones clearly defines the area of traditional settlement, the location of importance for park management and prescribes general conditions for building and editing of space and divides them into established construction and new construction. In the established construction, here is a commendation for Article 27, which states that within the scope of the plan, all the buildings identified by the provisions of this plan as well as the Article 28. paragraph 2 where you adopted the remark and included that it was allowed to build an auxiliary building, water tank capacity depending on the type of purpose of the building, the volume up to 27 cubic metres, as a rule, next to the building. What we have little regrets, and not only of this spatial plan, but of the General Law on Spatial Planning, these may be in the case of new construction, Articles 33 and 34. I will quote Article 33, it is said that the plan allows the building to be built for the needs of the family holding and to provide catering and tourist services in the rural household, a craft registered for the purpose of carrying out a farm or legal person registered for the purpose of carrying out a farm, located at least 100 metres from the coastal line and which has a ground floor of up to 50 metres of square building gross area and a maximum height of up to 4 metres, and there is really nothing controversial there, that there is no article that says, if it is located on a plot of at least 3 hectares. It is considered 3 acres in a piece, you will agree for Slavonia one serious area, let alone for one island and I think that on the fingers of one hand on all the Zadar Islands, and mainly on the Long Island you could find a owner who has 3 hectares in whole and we think it might be more appropriate to leave it to be 3 hectares, but not in whole and then on one surface of 1000 squares, because these fragmented surfaces can make exactly one such object. What is even more absurd, it is in Article 34, I don't know if it should be here at all, and this is the plan to allow building buildings for our own economic needs in the function of traditional agriculture on the surfaces under olive trees, agricultural surfaces, areas under the stone and pastures. So, strictly for agriculture and then it's said that there must be a surface of at least 1000 meters, that maximum height of 3.5 meters, that there must be stone puppies and all that stands, but it's said that on the used plot beyond 1000 meters from the coastal line. 1,000 meters from the coastal line on one side, 1000 from the other, 1000 from the third, it's practically more than 2 kilometers from the island, and the island itself is called Long Island, if it was more than 3 kilometers away, then it would be called a wide island. Therefore, I do not think that this is prescribed by the Law on Spatial Planning, but that it would indeed be a difficulty on all our islands, that it should really consider whether it is necessary to build a small facility that serves exactly agricultural tools for farming, and we know that in these places, these are impenetrable places, that these are the places where the older population living and living on the island are mainly used in that agriculture, and I think that ministers should consider changing such a provision. Here we also commend that in that part of the article, paragraph 2 you have allowed lizard or water tankers, which is very good. It should also be pointed out that the conditions of construction and arrangement of the location for the management of the nature park and these are Coves Mir, Magrovica, Grpasčak, Otok Katina, Vela Sestrica and Uvala Kobiljak and all these other articles when we analyze them that talk about the transport, energy, telecommunications, comfortable management system, I think they are correct, but here from all articles I would like to appeal to the implementation of Article 82 and 83, which talk about water supply and where it is established that there is no running water, liquid drinking water already being brought by tankers or watermen and of course we come to an absurd that in a nature park where 100,000 visitors have a year with growth trend in the 21st century. I know it's not your portfolio and that you can't do much, but here, I ask you to appeal to the resolution ministry because most of the Zadar Islands don't have water, and we're witnessing that in 2012 and 2013, no kuna is singled out for the watering of these areas. Well, here, at least in that part of Nature Park, the municipalities of Sali and the Long Island, I'm asking you to stand up for it. And in conclusion, I don't owe it because the minister explained it quite well. Despite these particular remarks, I hope that in the future, at least the necessity of adopting the spatial plan in question will be respected without which it cannot be qualityd in this space, nor can it be preserved for future generations, and the HDZ Club will remain consistent with itself and support any well-intentioned action of the ruling ones so that it will also support this proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69554	Thank you. A clear Mesic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69555	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague, I think you've actually given a very good cut to the management of Nature Park Telašić. The fact is that what you have stated is that one of the key ways to effectively carry out the protection of natural values, especially in nature parks, is to find a way and a certain harmony between the activities of people living there and using certain natural resources, but allowed at the same time to preserve certain prohibitions and special protection tasks. So with this in particular, I'm particularly interested in who's really going to be able to build this object on and on which wheel is going to be 1,000 meters away from the sea line? Do we take a simple map and when we look at the Park of Nature Telascica, they almost have two or three points where you can do this and what you said about the surface area of 3 hectares, here we all know that exactly the tradition of agricultural farming if we want on islands whether there is a small plot of vineyards in one place, in the second place a small plot of olive groves, in the third place was a small plot with vegetable cultures, etc. And it's almost really impossible on any island our area larger than 3 hectares, even one of the largest island fields in the Starigrad field were very much smaller, were actually 250 times 900 meters that was an old ancient measure at the time of Greek colonization. So I really don't understand how this will apply in real life, and it would really be good for the ministry to think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69556	The answer to the replica of Ante Jerolimov.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69557	Well, colleague Mesic, you're right. I also hope that the ministry will consider and see this illogicality. In particular, when it comes to these farming small homes that neither hurt nor bother anyone, and since I said it was a wave on the islands of an older population that deals with agriculture, it is often somewhere in the hills of that position and there are no accessible and adequate roads because neither fire or access routes have been made for them to leave any tools behind to keep them from dragging up, down. I hope the ministry will see that, mainly because you said yourself that maybe other than 2, 3 points on that island on some other islands like the Ribnjak, Sestrunja, Ugljan, Pasman and others there are almost none, then this article is either excessive or it needs to be adapted to real life and let people do it. And you mentioned, of course, that the plan in question is about the preservation and protection of nature, but also the preservation and protection of nature in an adequate way, and that it also includes the life of people who live there, because unfortunately we have seen not only live on beauty, and we don't need that beauty to be reviled, but we need to get out to meet people who live there so that they can live on an island that they don't need to move out, and I think it's a tendency when you have a picture or a diamond to expose it somewhere in a museum, not to put it in the basement that no one sees it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69558	Damir Rimac, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69559	Dear colleague Jerolimov, in your debate you gave a kind of criticism of articles 33 and 34, if I understood correctly. I suggest you make amendments to the spatial plan exactly as your colleagues from the HNS have given. So it's a legal and democratic way of changing some kind of procedure. Also in your presentation you stated that the current number of visitors coming to Nature Park is 100 thousand which is not true. We had a debate at the Parliament's Nature Protection Committee and there was a question, and the answer was about 70,000. In previous years, it moved somewhere between 45 and 70 thousand unless I see that you do not approve of this comment, unless the person who was in front of the Nature Park had the exact information. So she said 70 grand as much as I'm wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69560	The answer to the replica of Ante Jerolimov.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69561	A colleague or you have heard something wrong, or you have misunderstood, or that person has said something wrong. Apparently 70,000 hikers on excursion ships who are organised to the nature park plus 30,000 visitors on their own ships that bond to the bohemians to tell us or floaters. So that information is quite accurate for you, I've contacted these days since I come from that area and people who work there and who live there and they've given me this information. That's one thing. The second thing about the amendment is I don't know if it would be in conflict with the Law on Spatial Planning because the Law on Spatial Planning cited these provisions and they were prescribed in this plan, so we didn't even go with the amendment because first of all I had to amend the Spatial Planning Act, so I appealed to the Minister to review this law and to include such provisions in some subsequent debate, amendments and amendments to the Law on Spatial Planning.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69562	On behalf of HNS representative Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69563	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister with an associate and an associate. I, on behalf of the HNS Club, would say that in any case we will support this spatial plan and what is most important is that in the arrangement of space in the Republic of Croatia spatial plans are one of the fundamental documents. Regarding this spatial plan, I would say that there are 8 national parks, 11 nature parks and what we consider in the HNS about these biological-natural-cultural reserves, protected spaces we talk too little about in public, we inform too little and we thus do little promotion of these very valuable sites of Croatian space. What I would say is that in the very procedure of adopting a spatial plan of Nature Park Telaščica that he is according to the procedure under which the law states that he has passed a complete procedure and a public debate which lasted in June 2013 and after a public debate in Telasčica Park that there was an objection 28 to the proposal for a spatial plan. What is important is that 16 proposals were accepted, 1 was partially accepted, and 11 were interpreted. What was important was that in a public debate that was concluded that all the views of the ministry and the designers were agreed and that this nature park was 70 km square and that Park Telaščica as part of the former Kornati National Park since 1988 was excluded and viewed as a nature park with much lighter protection criteria. What is also important to note is that the complete Nature Park Telaščica that it is its 70km square is fully in NATURA 2000. What is also important is that at the Telaščica National Park and through all other nature parks, and especially through spatial protection plans special attention is given to protecting and preserving natural values because they are best protected and as little as possible by the influence and presence of any construction and human action. What is also important is that spatial plans must have an extremely sensitive attitude towards the population and settlements of permanent residents within the nature park is not threatening for the values of the nature park population. It must be closely related to the functioning and use of the national, actually nature park. What is also important to note in the adoption of this spatial plan that in the area of Nature Park Telaščica in the past time, man did not damage this natural space by his actions and according to the assessment and according to the bases in the area of Park Telaščica there are no objects that have compromised this area and I believe that this was the last moment that in one particularly sensitive and quality way with everything, using all the bases this nature park continues to protect itself. What we, as a Croatian People's Party club, noticed although this, all the bases, although the space and plan is exceptional, believe that in Article 34, there would be no other interpretations, we have also proposed, through amendments, that, with all those elements mentioned, to determine the maximum amount of these objects that will be able to be built. What is also important in this spatial nature park plan is that the entire area of nature park is divided into a zone of strict protection, a zone of moderate protection and a zone of use. This is about 98% of the space of moderate protection, 1.12% of the strict protection and for those using 0.96. We think this is about both the space itself and the measures itself regarding the use and protection issues that this spatial plan enables Nature Park Telaščica to be one normal, uninterrupted development with very high levels of protection of all the goods in this nature park. We also meet here in this spatial plan of Nature Park Telaščica that we have found construction. In the established construction, we consider all those buildings that were found before February 15, '68. A year. So, these objects are all legalized. We have a way of new construction and special conditions of construction and editing of the zone of traditional settlements. Here it is also important that this spatial plan decidedly refers to ways of building, the height of objects, the construction techniques that all go in favour of protecting this space in the right way, possible way. The attitude of the Croatian People's Party differs from that of colleagues in Croatia to the democratic community where they would seek certain benefits in terms of construction from the distance of the sea line. We think that here in national parks, nature parks should be strictly adhered to by these building rules. Because if we start with exceptions, then we won't protect that space, because this is all about olive growing, livestock production and agricultural production, I don't believe that in the time ahead of us on the islands, especially in the Park of Nature, the Telascica is going to benefit from the development of that production branch. And all of them, that would go all in favor of tourism. And all those objects that are related to agricultural production and to the protection of this space and which are directly related to tourism can such spaces. And that's why I think the proposer, the designer of this spatial plan, did well and that this kind of spatial plan should be accepted. What this spatial plan also protects is the value of this area of nature park. In fact, why he was included in the nature park. Here we are talking about biodiversity, the geological-morphological structure of the area, the cultural goods, the ethnological heritage of landscape value, the visors and the olive trees. We believe that if these rules are not followed, one of the most valuable landscapes will lose value. Then from the value of the park there is also cultural heritage with archaeological sites, sacral objects and here we can say that the first mention of fishing on the Adriatic Sea is also mentioned in Nature Park. In addition to these values that I have said naturally, we also have a cultural heritage because the area of Nature Park Telaščica is characterized by a very mild Mediterranean climate where temperatures are the lowest of 7 to 24 degrees which we consider ideal for life. Also, on this natural heritage, we can say that here we have both land flora and fauna, sea flora and fauna and that we have many endemic species and plants and animal species in the park of nature. I think it's one of the greatest tasks to keep this space as such. Nature park Telaščica is a well-known area of conservation of the unique natural contrast of steeps, peaceful coves and is especially important salt lake Mir. People in this area have always engaged in traditional activities in accordance with nature. The Park of Nature Telaščica itself was named after the bay Telaščica which is one of the most significant contents of nature park. In this area live various endemic species, land snails on the steeps, turtles in the sea, flower plants, periska, good dolphins, etc. The Croatian People's Party will support the fully spacious Plan of Nature Park Telascica. We have also referred in writing and amendment to Article 34, where we have set out that in Article 34, paragraph 1, paragraph 4, a new subparagraph 5 is added, which reads as follows: "The maximum gross building surface of the building up to 30 square meters. The current sub-paragraphs 5 to 11 are becoming from 6 to 12." The Croatian People's Party will support the Spacious Nature Park Plan Telascica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69564	Thank you very much. Now we'll hear the replicas. Damir Rimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69565	Dear fellow Mandic, therefore you have well started your discussion by mentioning how many national parks we have, how many nature parks we have, and I think that's common knowledge. So it's 8 national parks and 11 nature parks. But you should have completed that thought with one fact, which is that the spatial plans for national parks have been brought to some extent between 75 and 80%, so Plitvice National Park still doesn't have a spatial plan, there's an old one that's on the audit. But it's still a devastating fact that out of 11 nature parks in the Republic of all of them, now I've given myself a little effort, so I figured out, 46 has spatial plans. So, still 54 nature parks have no spatial plans and actually the emphasis I hold should be on your discussion in that part that too much time has been lost, 26 years that things in this country at least in terms of spatial order are solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69566	Replication response, Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69567	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Roman, I'm sure when I was talking about the Park of Nature Telaščica that I wanted to touch other nature parks on purpose. According to the information we have in the document, statistics for the Republic of Croatia, we have a spatial plan of special features of the Nature Park Biokovo which is in the works. It is done by the Institute for Spatial Planning of Split-Dalmatia County. Then, a spatial plan of natural features of Nature Park Medvednica. The plan is over and the plan's proposal is going back to debate. I agree that if we want these very important spaces in the Republic of Croatia to be protected, then I believe that spatial plans must go more dynamically and that I fully agree with you. It is also a major obligation for institutions for spatial planning in certain counties that are responsible for nature parks, especially the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction. What is to welcome is certainly that both parent committees on this issue and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Environment Protection Committee have unanimously accepted these spatial plans. Which means that the designers and all those bases that are of natural, cultural quality and that after public debates are all these plans and accepted and in this form they came before the Parliament. In any case, I welcome the faster adoption of all other spatial plans because these are fundamental documents to protect the functioning and preservation of nature parks.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69568	Clear Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69569	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague, you spoke very exhaustively and inspiredly, you even mentioned the good dolphins that I absolutely welcome, but you underlined one difference between your attitude and the HDZ's attitude. So this document isn't the only one. We can agree that he is fundamental but there is also a Management Plan for Nature Park Telaščica. And it says that Nature Park Telaščica is a well-known area of preserved unique beauty, contrast of steeps, mini coves and lakes Mir. People here are engaged in traditional activities in accordance with nature, and satisfied visitors enjoy the variety of offers and have the opportunity to taste indigenous island products. How the basic documents and these implementing documents must be harmonised if we do not find a way to apply the provisions of this spatial plan we welcome to real life, then these guests will not have the opportunity to taste indigenous island products for the simple reason why they will not be. Because the population is getting smaller, it's getting older and if they're not allowed in some way traditional agricultural activity, then this sentence no longer stands. I'm actually talking about what I mean by the definition of a cultural landscape with those traditional drywalls that share islands on one side and the other where, in some ways, according to nature, it's lived for centuries and it's recognized the FARO Convention that treats these very areas and that way. That's why we said that because when you really take measures that have to be 1,000 meters from the edge of the sea, then you see that in the whole area you have, you have two points where you can build such a building, because if a thousand meters away from one shore you've actually gone to another shore near the other shore to the end. So to see where it can be, I'm not saying that it can be liberalized or it's our position, but in some ways it's realistic to fit into this cultural landscape that we agree on and well to go with this document to protect it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69570	Replication response, Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69571	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Mesic, I understand the good intentions of the HDZ Club in order to fix it. But you know that saying, you know it's us. Because you can be sure if the conditions are not so rigorous that we as a people would be the first to play it because here at no time do I doubt that the promoter and we here in the Assembly would not help the family economies that deal with agricultural production but I'm afraid that under the exception of agricultural production, tourism will come to a large door. This is where tourism goes along with this, and I may be wrong by me, but I think that young people come to live in that space, to deal with agricultural production, I think I don't think that there are any conditions yet, and it's going to take a long, long time to allow people to accept that kind of lifestyle, but I agree that it's certainly necessary to respect traditional production because what I think any space without people is not space because people are making space rich and especially certain agricultural production and I think, and with the proposal of this amendment, we still have determined that these objects can't be more than 30 square meters. So there may be a small space for tools, to sit in the shade but certainly no longer because I think that space in its landscape, according to its visions, if we continue, if we put too much into nature park I don't think it would be good. What we're talking about, we're talking about islands and not just nature parks.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69572	Thank you very much. Branko Bacic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69573	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your colleague Mandic says that unlike the HDZ Club, you advocate to preserve the area of the Park of Nature Telascica and not to come out of the framework of the law. So either I didn't hear the best of my fellow Jerolims. He said the HDZ Club advocates that a specific article is being amended in the Law on Spatial Planning, because this article 33, in which it is possible to build a facility for the purposes of registered activity, will simply not be implemented. Namely, in that area because he leaves there, he claims that there are no owners in the Nature Park Telascica which has three hectares and since there are no three hectares of parcel, this article will not be implemented because such construction will not be done. Therefore, if we were to enable it to be built in that space, if the owner has a three-hectare area to include the area in those three hectares in the entire area of the park and not in one piece. That's what he meant. So that's what it's all about. On the other hand, you have just listened to us from HDZ because I told the Nature Protection Committee that the article 34 lacks the surface and I was then told that it was settled by law. I say no, and that's why Mr. Radosh, not because she really missed the surface in this decision and gave the amendment to establish the area at 30 meters. And the third thing I'm trying to tell you is that you went with this law across the line from the Law on Spatial Planning, it wasn't news because you supported the Law on Strategic and Investment Projects, which is contrary to the Law on Spatial Planning.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69574	Comrade Bacic, it's been a while. Replication response, Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69575	Thank you very much. Well it is true that Bačić is the only one who can change the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. So this is a fundamental law that provides both the other elements and the adoption of these elements, but we have brought in to protect not only the spaces of the parks of the nature of the national parks but also the protection and other areas of the island, meaning that it is not allowed to build as to whom it falls on the coast because we believe that space is one of the most important treasures of the Republic of Croatia and, in particular, in these islands and the Adriatic coast. If there are no rigorous and firm measures here, I think this will certainly be an abuse because we are prone to abuse. As far as these parts are concerned and your discussion on the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the question that we have asked about and the arrival and number of visitors and the way that is the maximum number, I think it still lacks this spatial plan because sooner or later it will have to be said in such a small space that is the capacity. Because we see what happens in urban centers, Dubrovnik, Split, especially when large catamarans come when they actually change the whole life of a city. If such a high concentration of people comes into such a protected space, I think it should be taken into account, and normally it is the care of the Park of Nature Telascica and the people who manage to take care of such a method of use because this is primarily a spatial plan that further protects very sensitive space.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69576	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69577	Thank you very much. Comrade Mandic, in the debate, you said that HDZ in its debate is seeking benefits unlike you from the HNS. I have to admit, I didn't realize that a colleague of Jerolimov asked for convenience, and it's not good for anyone to seek convenience, but there's one law with a full list of benefits. The law is called the Strategic Investments Act, it should be called the Fairing Act because it is by this law that only the chosen individuals are shortened and even made possible by elitism. They can use a whole series of benefits, only the chosen ones, even build marine goods and beaches, unlike, and if someone invests 150 million kunas, it can do so, if someone invests only a million less, 149 million kunas, then he can't use a list of these benefits, he's waiting for obstacles, and then he won't even invest. Then it's easy to tell who's looking for a bargain and whose parties are doing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69578	Replication response, Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69579	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Maric, I would not like to politicise about this spatial plan of Nature Park. If we're talking about strategic investment, then you're partly right when you mentioned 150 million kunas. But you should also point out that all those investments that are linked to both islands and agricultural production are considered to be strategic investments of 20 million. In this regard, there is no bypass and legal procedure in these investments, only what are considered strategic investments and where they will have the government's maximum support and be seen as strategic and have been facilitated. I think that all those people who are going to invest in agriculture on the islands of 20 million kunas, I think we should have priority and all those who will allow for a new and better quality life should have special conditions. And we will see whether such privileged conditions will also bring new investments because Croatia needs new investments tomorrow, and we need new entrepreneurs, and we should all support it. I am not afraid that these investors will be too, I would like them to be too many and to be in a position like the Republic of Croatia to choose which investment is better and which is better for the better tomorrow and for the generations that come to us in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69580	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Damir Rimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69581	Honorable vice president, respected minister with co-workers. So in my presentation, I'm going to have to skip some parts for reasons that the predecessors talked about general generals, so there's no reason to repeat it because I'm going to spend just time. However, I will begin my presentation on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP with a single finding which I have said in the replica by replicating my colleagues, which is that too much time has been lost and that spatial plans for numerous protected parts of the Republic of Croatia have not been adopted. I sincerely hope that the dynamics of adopting other spatial plans for nature parks will be such that by the end of 2015 absolutely everyone will be brought in because we have a problem and we need to talk about this problem. So, in preparation for the discussion of the spatial plan, I used the data from the Environmental Report in the Republic of Croatia for 2004 and for the period 2005 to 2008, but I also used the Report on the State of the Republic of Croatia which this Assembly recently adopted by the Ministry, so for the period 2008 to 2012. And what's very interesting, is the fact that in the Environment Report that was first created, so I'm going to quote a sentence, manage protected areas of stagniers, and to this day has not changed more objectively. The implementation of some management plans began as part of internationally funded projects, and I wonder whether they were completed or not? So all of this introduces that spatial planning and protection over the past few years or that, in the past, was absolutely uninteresting, unarranged, or to use the folk phrase, the last hole in the play, and that should be changed. So back to the topic, and this is the proposed spatial plan of Nature Park Telascica. So, in addition to the 70 square kilometers that the predecessors talked about, it is also very important to highlight 68 kilometers of the seashore as a sensitive ecosystem, and the plan itself has established or determines the long-term basis of arrangement, use and protection of the value of space, system and method of visiting nature parks or the possibility of tourist use and tours. All of this is based on an analysis of the specificity and value of the space, an assessment of the possibilities, but also on the limitations of the space, including restrictions in dealing with certain activities. Namely, none of the speakers mentioned more specifically, so I will give myself the right to say a few words about three special natural phenomena characterized by the Park of Nature Telascic, which I consider neither to have been used marketingly enough nor to be sufficiently used in tourist terms in the Republic of Croatia. It is the main bay of Telascica which is the best port in the Republic of Croatia because it protects both from the south and from the storm, I think it is extremely important in this place to highlight it, but there are steeps, so let's call them so or the Cliffs in the RH heights over 200m and depths about 85 to 90m. And, of course, Slano Lake Mir, which has its medicinal properties due to an increase in salinisation due to increased evacuation. Of course, consulting since I'm not Dalmatian, with the Dalmatians whether there's some kind of mud in that lake, they told me yes. The name of that mud, I wrote down, Fang, that the accent is right in that part. When it comes to Nature Park Telascica, it must be emphasized that the status of protected area has been acquired since 1980. The colleagues spoke of an extremely valuable and rich flora and fauna, so over 100 different species, phenomena of geological and geomorphological characteristics, etc. And the emphasis was that in this area the human race had settled long ago. However, I believe it is extremely important to say in this place that the declaration of nature park came in '88 after the separation from the Kornati National Park, and that the spatial plan was carried out in 2014 only 26 years later. It is a lost time for which I hold that we are all as politicians and present and those who have sat in these councils responsible because absolutely spatial planning and protection of the human environment and the protection of valuable parts of the territory of the Republic of Croatia has been neglected. But let's get back to the facts of the spatial plan. The spatial plan includes protection from activities that could primarily distort the value of important and valuable space, the protection of natural and cultural goods, by certain parts and in full, the editing and rational use of the space envisaged for the construction, restoration of valuable abandoned buildings, as such are both construction assemblies and the provision of necessary procedures in space. A thorough starting point in the design of the plan I have placed it in some 4 categories, it is under 1 respect for all requirements relating to nature protection, under 2 respect for landscape value, under 3 registration of existing traditional parts and settlements, under 4 registration of typeology of found buildings and anchors, and all with the preservation of cultural and historical heritage. The spacious plan as a building of special importance for the state of Croatia defines the ports of special purposes, the mask port in the Cove of Mir and the mask port in the Cove of Cuška Dumboka. There are also highlighted differences of space according to purpose, method of use and degree of protection or so on. The area determined by the professional background of nature protection from 2008 and further elaborated in the Nature Park Management Plan of 2012. I don't think there's any reason to detail and speak now what the division zones are, but there are generally three division zones, each within its own framework has a certain value, and the spatial plan is allowed whether construction in a specific zone, whether fishing, whether or not exploiting or for tourist purposes. My colleagues in front of me mentioned key articles 33 and 34th surface area of 3 hectares, etc. I'll say in front of the counsel club that on my own behalf, we believe in the profession that if the profession predetermined such normatives I think it is in accordance with both the law and the professional aspects. What I think is personally very important in the debate pointed out is the fact that in the public debate process, the requirements that stemmed from the need to protect cultural and natural protection and the demands of the landowners who showed an interest in building, let us call them so-called accommodation facilities. I mean, primarily here, the provisions of Article 27. The fate of private buildings that do not fit into the existing cultural heritage and landscape of nature park with numerous examples of different construction styles in the coastal area along our Adriatic coast. The professional basis is the elaborate on all the buildings that have passed the evaluation found that there are no buildings that deviate from the set norms and I think that's important to emphasize. But I also think it's important to stress that in this way and that this plan tried to get out or came out to meet those who were building, and maybe they shouldn't have built in the area of nature park. I'll remind you in this debate when we discussed the Northern Velebit Space Plan, even I, even at the premises of northern Velebit, individuals were building cottages that were absurd. I repeat, over the past 26 years. It should therefore be noted that all buildings are held in space although there are no classic settlements in the area of nature parks. The ministry has issued a warrant to remove only the installed houses or assembly facilities, primarily in the Cove of Mir. My colleague Jerolimov, I'm sorry he's not here right now, but he had a good argument in which I answered for a replica. So there was doubt whether 70,000 visitors, whether 70,000 are coming by boat, but let's round it up to 100 thousand tourists who will be in the nature park. That information concerns me personally, and I'll explain why. In fact, only 40 to 50 thousand visitors came to the nature park a few years ago. In a very short time, and I will return you to the beginning of my debate, so that some very important parts of nature park are neither marketing nor tourist use. That part will surely come to pass in the coming years. The disposal of sanitary wastewaters in the area of nature park is planned separately for each building through impermeable collection pits or the use of modern purification devices. I personally believe that modern purification devices at this time and in this economic situation are extremely expensive as a solution and that they will soon not be resolved. If in the next 5 years there is an increase in visitors to more than 150 thousand or 200 thousand given god, then there will be major ecological pollution and they could be exposed to a certain risk. So, from this part, I appeal to be taken into account by the ministry, so construction but also by the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Because if that figure comes to 150, 200 thousand visitors and we don't have a quality solution then we'll be in big trouble. At the end of the SDP Council Club's position that it will be expressed positively and that it will support such a proposed spatial plan of Nature Park Telascica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69582	It's a co-worker's club. Clear Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69583	Dear colleague. If you hadn't mentioned those first five sentences, you would have had a great exposure, because we agree on a lot of what you said. I'm also personally concerned about some of these phenomena you said, mentioned you. I'm concerned about the preservation of the submarine, the issue of anchoring, possible expansion... which will further compromise the specifics of the underwater world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But as far as the spatial plans are concerned, you said too much time was lost. Yeah, well, I wish it could've been brought before. It was brought in for all national parks. Some of them are under review as you mentioned. Not for all nature parks. But you need to know that today we still have national parks and nature parks di we still have mine areas, which was almost impossible in some way not only to go into the design of plans but in some way to manage the area at all. It was particularly problematic in the parts of Velebit, in the parts of Kopački rit, and today we have big problems in the area of Krk National Park precisely for these reasons. So we can't count on it for 20 years and a few years of independence from the declaration of independence of the Republic of Croatia, but still there since '98, '99. And you know for a fact that there were exactly those problems of that kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69584	Replication response, Damir Roman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69585	Well, fellow Mesic, I must say, I'm glad you agree with the great majority of my exposure except for the first five sentences. But it was not an exposure, it was a hope that all spatial plans would be resolved by the end of 2015 which in consultations and with the Ministry of Environmental Protection and with the Ministry of Construction would look like one real option. I must also say that I am pleased that the HDZ in its discussions is also evolving and that it actually agrees with the high percentage of the position in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69586	Hansel Mandic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69587	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Roman, in your debate you touched the number of visitors who were looking back ten years in the constant trend of growth. This is what we as a club have observed, and we have expressed great concern about the capacitation, the arrival of the Nature Park Telašcia, since there is no drinking water in the area of nature park. In this regard, however, the biggest responsibility in the management of the Park of Nature Telaščica, which in time must signal certain trends and in such a way, is to protect itself in a quality way and once again in a functional way, mastering nature park. I fully agree with you that very soon this number of visitors organized will definitely come to over 150,000, and then we will get into trouble. Because once we pollute one space, it's hard to get it back to what it was. And the goal of this spatial plan is to protect the Park of Nature Telaščica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69588	The answer to the replica Damir Rimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69589	Dear fellow Mandic, therefore, the best and the best of quality should be derived from these discussions. What concerns me personally in this whole story is that modern systems, and public institutions, i.e. Nature Park Telaščica should have practically no Croatian language, translation for these two words but it is... Therefore, there must be some illogicality in the system and an immediate plan of action must be known. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] I wish all our discussions were about whether it was 100,000 or 150 or 200 thousand visitors. Because tourism as an important economic activity of the Republic of Croatia has huge potential in this part.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69590	My colleagues and colleagues, please enter the hall because at 12:00 we will begin voting, and after we announce the debate, we will continue the debate. It's 11:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69591	We're having an individual discussion about the matter that was already there. I didn't see, I'm sorry. Your Honor, I have not seen. Dragutin Lesar raised his hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69592	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament today and often it happens that on the day of the vote we can only determine at the end of the vote which points are discussed... These nervous ones can stop turning off the microphones. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] So I would kindly ask you to put in practice that at the start of the vote you always state which points are not ready to vote. But I would ask you to really explain what conditions are missing for the Croatian Parliament to decide on the 2012 report on the work of the Croatian State's Attorneys' Offices. The government's opinion, the opinion of the working bodies exists, the debate is over, and as far as I know, there are no new documents for it. The amendments can't be submitted to the report and this answer of yours that the conditions have not been met I don't understand. I insist on the clarification that the terms and conditions of the Rules of Procedure are missing, quote me an article of the Rules of Procedure which is missing to be voted on today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69593	Your Honor, all I could, I knew and should have said. No, you can't squeeze something that's not there. No conditions, that's what I told you. We're continuing the debate. There isn't. We continue to discuss the Proposal for a decision on the establishment of a Spatial Plan of the area of special features of Nature Park Telaščica. Please allow me to hear the debate of the esteemed representative of Mirala Holly. Dear colleagues and colleagues, continue the conversation outside, and allow the Parliament to continue the debate. A little respect, please. Comrade Mandic, please. Please continue the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament with the agenda point I have already read and debated by my esteemed colleague Mirela Holy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69594	Thank you, Your Honor. At the very beginning of the debate, I would like to say that I will support this proposal for a decision on the establishment of a spatial plan for the area of special features of Nature Park Telaščica because I think it is extremely important for all protected areas to make spatial plans, given that spatial plans are actually strategic documents that allow one long-term development of these protected areas. And it's a very bad situation in which for years, not to say for decades, there are no spatial plans. They also prevent one quality management, i.e. the adoption of quality management plans in these areas, and then we have problems like we already mentioned during this debate at Plitvice Lakes National Park, where regardless of the fact that this is one of the most visited parks. I think the Krka National Park and Plitvice Lakes National Park are around by the number of visitors. We have not solved some basic preconditions that are extremely important for the functioning of protected areas such as sewerage, such as water supply, such as the very standards that apply to catering facilities operating in the area, or hotels, restaurants that do not operate according to sustainability criteria, we do not have renewable energy sources to, say, heat these hotels with biomass. This is why it is extremely important to make spatial plans for all protected areas. And I think the representatives of the ministry will agree with me that it is almost 20 years from the adoption of this spatial plan an extremely long period. At first, I would just like to mention that it was a bit of an unusual decision to separate this extremely valuable space from the scope of the Kornati National Park, but I suppose the fundamental reason was that in some ways, there was little flexibility between living conditions for people in the area because there is still a much stricter regime within national parks for certain potential economic activities than in nature parks. So I think this is extremely important precisely because of citizens living in the area. The owners of private parcels also occupy more than 90% of the area of the Park of Nature Telaščica, and they care most about bringing this spatial plan into play and how they could eventually start with the realisation of their own development plans or some projects, and eventually try or even succeed in obtaining funds, or financial incentives from European structural funds. There I would only mention the head of the Municipality of Sali, Mr. Morović, who said about this document that it is absolutely insane to insist that on the island for agricultural purposes the Polish house is built at a distance of 1000 meters from the coast when that distance does not correspond to the distance located on the other side of the island and such an inflexible provision does not provide the possibility of building at all and thus has a population that will not be able to deal with tourist activities, which they consider to be the economic status of that part of the people who are already difficult to further make it difficult. I am absolutely aware of the fact that within protected areas all laid down standards must be respected, and ultimately they must be above the law of the envisaged standards applicable to other island communities or coastal areas, but they cannot agree in a certain section with the observations of the local population. And I hope that the local population will, however, deal with extensive agriculture, or extensive livestock farming if nothing else, because such projects as sustainable agriculture projects are extremely important and to preserve the biodiversity of the area in the nature park itself. In fact, I suppose that perhaps the colleagues who are still here left it to the end to listen to the debate about this bill is not known that exactly extensive livestock farming or the pestilence of cattle on the ground does not have a bad effect on biodiversity but is very positive and that a very large part of our areas in which cattle are no longer hit by cattle have lost those natural values that they used to have when there was extensive livestock farming there. I will refer to Article 33 which speaks of the construction of buildings intended for family farms, i.e. OPGs, on a land area of at least 3 hectares. In view of the need to bear in mind that the huge fragmentation of the island's terrain is once again the impression that it is not contributing to domestic investors but may be said to be more contributing to those investors who are not domestic residents who may have more resources available to round up little of that land area to then deal with them. Although it may also be wrong to talk about this, given that no one will certainly be dealing with more serious agriculture within the nature park than it should be one contribution to sustainable development in general to the functioning of this protected area. I believe that the minimum corrections in this section that would go further on the hands of the local population would not, to a large extent, or would not degrade or devastate at all, result in the devastation of this protected area and certainly would not lead to any mass construction, and yet perhaps it would allow the realization of a larger number of projects that are extremely important for the retention of the local population within the nature park, and this should also be some fundamental purpose. Because it is not the purpose of viewing these spaces as some canned whole but to allow people within such a whole to live and live on the basis of sustainable development projects, because it also creates a certain balance. I would also refer to Article 98 concerning waste management. I fully approve the initiative of this spatial plan relating to the recovery of illegal waste disposal at Veli Dočić's site and, in general, to the general prevention of all activities related to soil, air, water and other values. And we know how waste contamination can have a bad effect on certain natural values. However, I do not understand why this statement, which went to the public, refers to the prohibition not only of permanent but also of temporary disposal, i.e. the disposal of waste in the area to which this plan relates, given that this temporary care is not mentioned in Article 98, that is to say, it also allows for what is ultimately and logical because there is a very large amount of tourists creating waste and this waste should be temporarily postponed at locations within the nature park. And for this reason, I believe that there was some inaccuracy in the statement and that it was necessary to actually stick to what it says in the article of the law, that is, Article 98 of this bill. And at the very end of the debate, I would like to stress that I think it is extremely important that we also bring in all other spatial plans of protected areas that have not yet been adopted in order to use these areas for sustainable development because they have a very high potential.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69595	Thank you very much. It's up to the Honorable Representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69596	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear Madam Minister with his associates. The HDZ Club supported the adoption of a Decision on a spatial plan for the area of special features of Nature Park Telašića and I also imitate the adoption above all to arrange the space for special protection. However, I would like to highlight the three elements that I mentioned in part to the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, which relate to potential construction in this nature park. That's what we were talking about during the debate. And I would factor out these three important things. The first part refers to the definition and concept of found buildings. You, Madam Minister, know very well that the Croatian legal terminology regulated by the laws in the area of spatial planning and construction does not know the concept of the found building. In fact, the profession often uses the concept of a found building. However, in the public precisely because of the undefined concept of the found building there were various concerns and then the 2007 Law on spatial planning and construction introduced the concept of an existing building which was defined as a building built on the basis of a building permit or another building act or was built before 15 February 1968. Then we introduced the Law on the Treatment of illegally built buildings into this legal terminology and the concept of an illegally built building that is exactly the opposite, so it was built without an appropriate building act and was built after 15 February 1968. Why am I saying this? In this way, when we haven't resolved to the end the concept of a found building to conclude from Article 32 of the Law that in the area of nature park we have made it possible for the general legalization. I don't know if there are buildings in the area of nature park that were built after February 15, 68a have no building order. Does he have such objects? If there are, then we are practically legalizing these decisions in this way, although it is, as you know, contrary to the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings because it is not possible to legalise the building in the area of nature park except in the area of traditional settlement. Therefore, we should have determined by the end, defined what the found building means, because you mentioned dry wall buildings in article 37, these are centuries of buildings, and they can be legalized clearly because they are 68 years ago. Furthermore, buildings with ethnological features have been legal since the 18th end of the first half of the 20th century, and therefore they are legitimate or existing buildings. However, under the notion of building a new construction this plan involves buildings built by reconstruction of old buildings or a new construction in the second half of the 20th century. Therefore, since the second half of 1980, 81, 78, and so on, some 32 years after 68, then this proposal to decide in the park of nature is legalized if there are, we legalize buildings that have not even legalized the law on lex specialis, so neither the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings. So here it is up to me to vote, the government should lay down until the end that the founding building is not and cannot be legal because otherwise you say that you will be able to use, in this way, the buildings found in the function of the family holding, so we are allowing them to use potentially illegally built buildings that are not legalized in the nature park. That is, I think, if perhaps later you can in your own if you will finally address this explanation but the law as I have read it allows something which the law on dealing with illegally, this decision allows something that has been prevented by the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings. The second remark I made on the committee concerns exactly what Mrs. Holly said, which is that Article 33 goes in a more restrictive direction than what the parent law is provoking and I welcome it, it is very good to introduce building elements more restrictively in these areas of protected nature parks than those prescribed by the parent law. That's good, I commend it, but this situation cannot happen. Because there are three acres of land in the Telaščica Park area, and when you don't have three acres, we can't even allow anyone to build there. This may happen in the future so someone will be able to round up three acres so 30,000 square meters in a space where the parcels are very small of a few hundred squares, it's a demanding job, but what Mrs. Holly said, I agree with that, if we don't go to the favorites of some foreign investors rather than the domestic, domestic population. Therefore, this provision as good as it is because it is more restrictive than the applicable legal provision, on the other hand, is not enforceable at least as the situation and state of things in that space is now. And thirdly, Article 34, I also warned on the board, given the scope of the plan, given the surface and the appearance of that space is too high in this decision because you simply can't find space in the park of nature which is thousands of meters away from the sea and that it is still on land so it seems to me because when we looked at the scope of the spatial plan, the provision is good, it is defined, but it can't be translated. So, she's, you've prescribed with her objects that could be built if there was a site for that construction, but simply you can't find an inch of square land where you'd meet this provision. Here, so in that sense, I wouldn't have put in an amendment because I think that through the debate I've made enough clear what I think about it, but certainly given the fact that everything else here is written in this decision, I support and it's good to finally bring this plan to bear, that we are thus further protecting the beautiful space of the Long Island Archipelago and the Kornati Islands. I think it's very good, and in this sense I support the law, but I ask you to do the clarification so it does, and maybe speculation that can appear in the interpretation of this law, you prescribe this law a clear provision that the established construction is not considered by objects that are based on the basic law that prevents legalisation in the parks of nature, that this provision of this decision and this plan does not apply to such objects, so that we do not come into a strange situation to protect the protected space worse than our other space in Croatia. Because what we didn't prescribe in this law, I am required to say, the basic Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings, so here on that trail, I think you agree with me that it would be good to explain what is considered as a found building in the sense of this decision, and it certainly cannot be a building that is legally legalized by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69597	Thank you, too. We've exhausted the log-in list. Will the Proposer's representative give the final word? Dear Anka Mrak Taritas, Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69598	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like in this final word on three subjects. The first topic is the typeology of the buildings found, so I warn you of article 37, where it says that the conservatory base has identified the buildings that were found. So, in the process of planning very sensitive spaces such as nature parks and national parks, one of the bases is conservation bases. In the conservatory background, which is an integral part of this plan are precisely defined and marked by the buildings found, defined by the conservatives and defined by the detailed conditions under which these buildings, they are old buildings, can be kept in space, so they are the first half of the 20th century, so they assume that they are all before 15 February '68. and it only applies to them, and the concept of found, here I warn you of Article 37, the concept of what the conservatives are in the background which the component of the plan said, and equally in the graphic parts of the plan are marked. So they can't be anything but them and they'll need an even more detailed analysis in order to get their licenses. So that's when it comes to found buildings. When it comes to 3 hectares, therefore, in our legislation in 2004, a standard of 3 hectares in 1000 metres from the coastal line was introduced through the amendment and addition of the Law on spatial planning and regulation, so that it can be built outside construction areas, the OPG on the surfaces of 3 hectares. 3 hectares were also in the law in 2007, when the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction was the same when we were doing the Law on Spatial Planning, the Law on Construction and the Law on Construction Inspection in the debate opened the problem of 3 hectares. So there were those who advocated the option of reducing that area, for the option that in certain cases it would be less than 3 hectares, were those who advocated and even more restrictive, through a public debate that took place over a month through participation with all other bodies, we decided to keep 3 hectares because at that time there were many more those who felt that the reduction of 3 hectares would in some way lead to a devastation and that we were still not ready in that sense to make some changes and some changes in the legislation, so to be something more liberal than we had decided in 2004 over these ten years. So 3 acres is within the law since 2004 and here. And through the discussion of everyone, the real question has been raised why are the spatial plans of the area of special features so slowly going so slowly? You need to speed up, you need to go something faster. All of us working on it know that when you start with a spatial plan of special features, it's a national park or a nature park, that it's a series of studies, a series of analysis that requires a long, long path and one long procedure. Some estimate is that from the time you take the decision to create a spatial plan of special features, it takes you two to three years for all these analyses, studies from the spectrum of protection of cultural and natural heritage. So one longer period of time is at stake, it certainly doesn't justify any of us that it takes ten years or in this case in '88. The year was announced a spatial plan, a declared coverage of nature park, and here we are in 2014. What, I'm taking the opportunity maybe to take advantage of no matter how few we are, but it's good to know. We have 8 national parks and 11 nature parks. Of the eight national parks, all spatial plans have been made. The spacious plan of Plitvice Lakes was conducted and another public debate was held next week, he is going to go into procedure towards the government so in this meeting, so I expect in one, three weeks to see you again on the spatial plan of Plitvice Lakes, which was the oldest of that generation. Behind that we have Krka, which is from the '90s. and there are certain preparations whether it should be revised or not. These other spatial plans are in the beginning, so in 2001, 2002, 2003, here we are already in this assembly of Parliament, in 2012, i.e. this assembly of Parliament brought a spatial plan of the Northern Velebit National Park 2012. When it comes to nature parks of 11, 4 was brought from it the Vransko lake was equally delivered in 2012. It is now under way, we have an amendment, so I expect all the representatives' clubs and individually declared positive, so we expect next Friday to have that spatial plan as of next Friday. When it comes to Žumberk, a public debate has been held, answers and explanations are being prepared from the public debate and are being agreed. So Žumberak is certainly in front of this distinguished House until the summer stop unless there's some big problem that we don't see right now. When it comes to Medvednica, the public debate was in 2004. There's a little public discussion going on with the bear, not a bit. We updated Medvednica, harmonised and Medvednica is in public debate from 10th February to 11th March, so we expect that this year the Medvednica will come before this distinguished House. We are left with Biokovo at the stage of the previous debate. So we expect absolutely if no bigger problem is opened in 2014 we have even more with Telašića Plitvice Lakes, Žumberak and Medvednica, from the national parks Plitvice Lakes than the parks of nature Medvednica and Žumberak, we expect 2015. Biokovo, and for Papuk, Velebit and Lastovo Islands is at the stage of making conservative bases and bases from the aspect of the protection of natural heritage. So if these bases are prepared by the end of 2014, and they could be expected to be, then 2015 is our previous debates and public debates. So it's some kind of hodogram that would then be satisfying then we could say that these spaces that are of great value to us from the aspect of the protection of natural heritage and most valuable to space-planning documentation are covered. In this regard, when it comes to Papuk and Velebit, since we do not have a population that lives on a regular basis but occasionally, it is expected to be an easier way. When it comes to the Lastovo Islands, because there are people living there, it's always the assumption that you have to go there once or twice in public debate, and from the point of view it's better to discuss it several times and bring a better plan than not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69599	Thank you, too, Your Honor. We have a replica of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69600	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Madam Minister. The proposer of this law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and on behalf of the Government, the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction has built a draft proposal and a bill itself. It is an honor to conservators but the Ministry of Construction is behind this law and cannot be a conservative basis you know very well how to amend the provisions of the Law on the handling of illegally built buildings. You said that in the conservatory background it says that these are the types of buildings found and mentioned more recent buildings, it seems to me that you said that were built in the early 20th century, and here it says in the second half of the 20th century, so very likely after the 15th of February 1968. I do not want to say anything but to check that it can lead to an unequal relationship between other lawless owners in Croatia, which would then, with such a single formulation, which was written in Article 37, be in an unequal position. The conservative basis cannot be in front of the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings, so I only prayed until the vote to see if there is any way that one illegal and unfair situation would not really be created in which the owners of illegally built buildings in the nature park could legalise their buildings. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69601	The reply to the replica of Honored Minister Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69602	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Bacic, several times has already been checked. Checks have been carried out on the subject which are buildings and which are real estate and only those already in the proposal for a spatial plan because the spatial plan except for the purpose plan of the area has those charts and they are already marked there. Therefore, it is at least the interest of this ministry to bring into question the whole legalisation process in any way, and at least we would like to see any legalisation possible in the area of the national park and nature park because it is the most valuable space. And you know yourself that these are restrictions on legalization as strict as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69603	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate on the text of the proposal for a decision. Now we stop. I announce the continuation of the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament on 11 February with the 1st Point Report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2012. Good luck. Have a good weekend. I'll see you Monday at club sessions and working bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69604	Proposal for a decision on the establishment of a spatial plan of the area of special features of Nature Park Telaščica. The debate on the text of the draft decision is closed. The amendment was filed by the HNS Representatives' Club. I'm asking the Deputy Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning, Zeljko, to be seen on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69605	Thank you. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69606	The amendment is accepted. So it's becoming an integral motion for a decision. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. 106 votes in favour. A decision has been reached unanimously.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69607	We go to elections, appointments and resolutions. I'd like the chairman of the selection committee, the appointment... I'd like the chairman of the Committee on Appointment and Administrative Affairs of the Honorable Simu Lucin to submit a report. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] What is it? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69608	No, I'm just really curious about why we skipped points four, five and six. It is about the law amending and supplementing the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, then on areas of county, cities and municipalities, that is why we skipped the 2012 report on the work of the State Attorney's Office for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69609	He's not ready to vote, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69610	Not one, not the other, not the third?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69611	Not one, not the other, not the third.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69612	And what does that mean?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69613	And it's not ready, I'd say, it's not ready. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69614	I think the vast majority of MPs are interested.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69615	Thank you very much. Your Honor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69616	It's that a man crosses and leaves.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69617	It's not a bad thing to always do.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69618	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for decisions followed by the Committee for the Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament was set at the 29th session of 5 February 2014. The first decision is a proposal for a decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament is elected Jadranka Kosor. On 1 July 2013, a member of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting on behalf of Ruža Tomasic for his term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69619	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69620	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I must say that on the human side, I am embarrassed to discuss this point, but since I want this Assembly to be governed by the principles and rules, and it is not at all a questionable name here, however, from talks with counterpart Simunovic of HSP Dr. Ante Starcevic, who belonged to Mrs Ruza Tomasic, was not spoken to by anyone, with the biggest opposition club HDZ has not been spoken to. This is a place that belongs to the opposition and, therefore, at the principle level, we can agree tomorrow that the appointment be as it is proposed it is not at all controversial but we cannot accept colleagues and colleagues that someone, whether it is the president of the club of the largest party in the ruling coalition, is so proposed, and that the appointments are done in such a way. So these are purely principled reasons. We can agree tomorrow, and although we at the HDZ Club don't mind having a solution like this proposed, as it is suggested, this is just a matter of principle, and on behalf of the HDZ Club, I am expressing a sharp protest because tomorrow something like this will be done again when someone doesn't pass. I think it was an elementary courtesy if it was not already wanted to talk to representatives of the opposition clubs that someone had spoken to counterpart Shimonovic and I repeat, to me as a representative of HDZ and as a man it is very difficult to discuss at this point. But this is about principles. Just as it was a principle when I was discussing the government's amendments because it's simply like the opposition that belonged to this place we have to warn about this. I don't know if anyone talked to the Laburists and HDSSBs but no one gave us information and a colleague Dragovan as club president or someone else from the ruling coalition simply doesn't have to make suggestions for a quota that belongs to the opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69621	On behalf of the SDSS Club, respected representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69622	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. As chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, I wanted to say two words about this proposal. The Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament has been working for quite a long time without one member or one member. I agree with my colleague Shucker that we should stick to the principle but I also assume that we agree that principles should not be obstructed and that the committees should not, because of the obstruction of these principles, be it intentional or unintended obstruction, regardless of whether this obstruction is the result of uninterestedness or any other reason, but the committees must act in full terms of the large number of activities of MPs and advocates often happen to us to fight for quorum. For this reason, it is very important that we have the full composition of the board. And I ask you to take care therefore that we protect the principles regardless of what moment it was, whether the principles should be respected in consultation or whether principles should be protected and by not acting while they were being implemented, that they should not be applied. So the board has acted without one member for a very long time. And if Mrs. Kosor is not mine to be Mrs. Kosor's lawyer, but she is my representative in the Croatian Parliament to say that it is a shame that the former prime minister and former president of one of the leading Croatian political parties is not a member of any of the committees of this House. I don't object to anything but speak only in the name of my conscience and my feelings and in the name of respecting this House. Therefore, if there is no reason to be against Mr. Lucin's proposal, I ask you to put aside this fact in which we have all failed to comply with the principles or to vote on this proposal properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69623	We have two replicas. The first replica of the respected representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69624	Thank you very much. Mr. President, here comes the president of the Committee, discussing something that was not at all the essence of our remark. And fellow Shuker, speaking on behalf of the club, specifically said that we are not opposed and that we are not talking about persons who should be appointed to individual committees. We talked about the principle of negotiating the representation of all parliamentary parties in the parliamentary committees. And so far, we've stuck to that principle. The place in question is the place that, according to agreement and with the ruling coalition, belongs to the opposition parties and cannot take the ruling coalition as the right to determine, instead of the opposition, who will sit on behalf of the opposition on the parliamentary committees. Therefore, the problem of the work of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the esteemed colleague Pupovac is commendable for trying to resolve but it is his responsibility to determine most of the decisions not in a way that takes the right of opposition parties to appoint their representatives to the parliamentary committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69625	Replica's response, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69626	Thank you, Mr. President. I will repeat once again we agree on the need to protect the established principle in the work of the Parliament when there is no doubt about the consultation between the ruling majority and the opposition or the parliamentary minority. But it is also necessary to remove any disturbances that may arise from any intentional or deliberate obstruction as if it were due to this consultation. It happened here that more than half a year, almost half a year, and over the year, there was no full composition of the Committee on Foreign Policy, and you agree that this is also an important element of the business activity of this assembly as well as the principle of mutual consultation. And also, I suppose it is clear that the former prime minister who led the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia in her term and the president of one of the leading foreign policy parties should not be a cause for this kind of debate but, if you want, we can discuss it too.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69627	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. It's the honorary representative of Dragutin Lesar on behalf of the club. He took it back.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69628	Dear colleagues and colleagues. A colleague, Mlakar, is also right, but I remind you that the allocation of the quota of completion of the working bodies at the beginning of the term of office was made according to the number of MPs immediately after the election and by the quota to account for the mandates then. Meanwhile, in this House there were two new clubs of MPs, some parties have fewer mandates than they had at the time when that bill worked and then we must be correct until the end and request a new calculation of all quotas and ruling and opposition and within... and then we will be able to be sure of which place it belongs to. And second, let this experience teach us that the same approach and the same principle are always respected when filling the working bodies. The parent committee on the proposal is well known and must address the clubs, whether ruling or not, in order to comply with the procedure agreed at the very beginning of the term of office. And when restructured or transferred from opposition MPs to a ruling or ruling opposition quota, that means control of the quotas that were initially established and then we will be to the end of what has always been done. There is also a human dimension of this proposal and it is true that when Kosor was a quota, by the way, she was a representative of HDZ as well as two other MPs who were no longer in the same club, so maybe the new mathematics shows something else. Comrade Shuker, I didn't understand you very well. Okay. [[/Intruder Shucker: You'll understand.]] And the human dimension of it is that we do have a situation of a former prime minister who is not a member of any working body in Parliament and if you do not accept this, if this is not accepted, I will personally withdraw from one working body and give that position to Mrs. Kosor as a sign of respect for the person who led the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69629	Thank you very much. The replica of the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69630	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, it is simply wonderful to listen here to the principles and colleagues of Lesar and colleagues of Pupovac. That's why I initially said that on the human side I'm extremely uncomfortable discussing and I'm going to say that now, and this is about principles and here clearly the Croatian public has had the opportunity to see how many individual advocates who hold moral lessons here advocate principles. Look at the Rules of Procedure, you have no right to give me a replica, at least you could learn that for all these years. How much they stand for the principles when it suits them, and now I'm Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I really don't get it now, and I'm embarrassed, I apologize to my colleague Kosor, who suggested Mrs. Kosor to this committee? You've brought Mrs. Kosor into an awful awkward situation, I've suggested that, just a little bit, just a little bit, I beg you nicely. So why the anxiety, colleagues and colleagues? What's with the anxiety? But I'd just like to beg you, so I've said nicely that we, as far as we're concerned, have nothing to do with this debate, but colleagues and colleagues, here it's said that no one has suggested it. [[Intruder President: Continue with the replica, and let me do the...]] Did the chairman of the board, a new representative, a fellow Member of Simunovic who does not know the rules, come to the Parliament, and ask if he would come to the committee instead of his president? So let's be principled to the end, it's the easiest thing to do when someone's into it. Anyway, fellow Lesar, I'm ready to calculate on that, but then we'll just see how anybody performs at which clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69631	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69632	A fellow Shuker, the principle I have stated and which I stand for is every time there is a change, it's a new calculation, and then we're principled to the end. I hope you don't have anything against it because HDZ then lost, if I'm not wrong, or the HDZ Club, 3 MPs, 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69633	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Honorable representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69634	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, quite briefly, given that it has already been said quite a bit. So, I think that when it comes to the Committee on Selection and Designation, given the work that this committee is doing that we've worked very hard for the past two years and that we haven't de facto failed the principle of agreement. Here, the best example is that it took us more than 3 weeks, or 2 weeks of opposition clubs to agree on, say, outside members for two committees, for the Foreign Political Committee and the Committee on European Affairs. However, if you get a proposal from the club on the board, it says in the materials of who proposed it, always for every member or proposal that goes towards the board, it says who suggested it, you get a proposal in this particular case for Mrs Kosor. You have a board where 7, so it says club, opposition club, it says here. ... Croatian Civil Party. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, most of it, please, nice. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Sir, look, look. Come on, we can do it differently. I have to admit that I was surprised to see it, I thought it was harmonised, but the fact is, Mr. Shucker, if we're going to throw it now, that when you kicked Mrs. Kosor out of the party, you threw her out of all the boards. Now hold here our principled sermons. So come on, please. It's not about principles at all. And I ask you nicely, therefore, what concerns me, which is that your four members, i.e. at the board meeting, were five opposition members when we discussed it. No one noticed anything. I can't know whether, in any case, concretely, you see how many of these appointments there are, always agreed by opposition politicians, or MPs. Therefore, we will continue to work, whether you will be able to agree in the opposition or not to admit that it is not our problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69635	We have one replica of respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69636	My colleague Lucin fully agrees with one of your findings. One party that was not allowed in this case to talk about the principles is precisely HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69637	Thank you very much. Let's get back to work. First of all, let's get to the point of who's behind the board's motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 113 votes, we have reached a decision proposed by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. Let's go to number two.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69638	Thank you very much. The second decision is a proposal for a decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Health and Social Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament is elected Marija Ilic. On 13 December 2013, the member of the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Croatian Parliament ceased to act as Višnja Fortun for the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69639	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm giving a statement to the committee's decisions. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 111 votes, it was proposed as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs. Please number two.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69640	Proposal for a decision on the resolution of members and the selection of members of the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds of the Croatian Parliament, Silvano Hrelja, is hereby authorised. Lijana Cvetovic is elected member of the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69641	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a statement on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 11o votes, it was proposed in the text as proposed by the Committee. Number four.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69642	Proposal for a decision on the appointment of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Croatian Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. As a member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Goran Jandrokovic is named. On 18 September 2013, a member of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe ceases to act as Bozidar Kalmeta for a term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69643	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a statement on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 108 votes and adopted as proposed by the Committee. Let's go to number five.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69644	Proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the European Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, it is appointed members of the public scientific and professional staff of Dr. Goran Bandov, Ana Gruden, Zlatko Komadina, Dr. Višnja Samardžija, Nikolina Klajic and Natko Vlahović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69645	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a statement on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of the vote 106 votes by and 1 vote against the proposed decision in the text as proposed by the Committee. We're going to number six, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69646	Proposal for a decision appointing members of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament. In the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament they are appointed as members of the public, scientific and professional staff of Dr. Branko Caratan, Dr. Vesna Crnic-Grotic, Dr. Ivica Mastruko, Zvonimir Majić, Dr. Tonci Tadic and Dr. Mice Munivrana.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69647	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on a motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I note that the proposed decision has been made by a majority vote of 104 votes in favour and 1 vote against. We have exhausted the elections, appointments and resolutions for this session. I see the hand of the respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69648	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague Cain has already asked that question, and it's very difficult to agree with him, but here's the situation where we think the same thing. So we are also interested in the name of the HDZ Club, and I ask why we will not vote today on the 2012 State's Attorney's Office's work report? Is there any objective reason? What changed in the meantime? Is there any reason why what is happening in Sisak-Moslavina County and not the State's Attorney's Office in the county regarding Lovric-Merzel? So we're interested in what the reasons are, you have a business right to say the way you said you didn't get the terms. But because of the public interest you often call upon, I think it would be very correct to tell us why and why we are not voting today on the 2012 State's Attorney's Office's work report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69649	Indeed, there were no reasons for deciding each other and the third material. I've told you everything I know. I ask the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs, a respected colleague, Sim Lucin, to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69651	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. The upcoming proposals for decisions of the Committee for Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament were set at the 30th session of 27 February 2014. Proposal for a decision on the election of the Vice-President and the end of the term of office of the Vice-President, the election of a member and termination of the term of office of the member of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities of the Croatian Parliament. First, Ivan Šimunović is elected vice-president of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament. Second, on 1 July 2013, the post of Vice-President of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament ceased to act as Ruža Tomasic for the term of office. Three, Vesna Škare-Ozbolt is elected as a member of the Committee for Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament. Fourthly, on 18 February 2014, a member of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting on behalf of Ivanka Roksandić because of the termination of the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69652	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. By raising our hands, may we plead who is to make the proposed decisions? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, with 98 votes in favour, we have made the proposed decisions in the text as proposed by the committee. Two, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69653	Thank you. Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of member of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament. First, Ivan Šimunović is elected member of the Croatian Parliament's War Veterans Committee. Second, on 1 July 2013, the member of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament ceased to act as Ruža Tomasic for his term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69654	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a decision. Who's in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 101 votes in favour. Third Honored President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69655	Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament is elected Dr. Goran Maric. Second, on 18 February 2014, a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting on behalf of Ivanka Roksandić because of the termination of the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69656	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. I'm closing the debate. I am making a statement of the proposed decision. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 101 votes in the text as proposed by the Committee. Fourth.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69657	Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament is elected Nada Murganić. Second, on 18 February 2014, a member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting on behalf of Ivanka Roksandić for the termination of the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69658	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm giving to vote who's in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that we have made the proposed decision unanimously with 102 votes in favour. Fifth, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69659	Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament. First, for a member of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament, Nada Murganic is elected. Second, on 31 January 2014, a member of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament ceases to act as Damir Jelic because of the termination of the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69660	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm giving a statement on who's in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I note that the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 102 votes in the text as proposed by the Committee. Sixth, Honorable chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69661	Proposal for a decision on the resolution of members and the selection of a member of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy. First, a member of the Supervisory Board shall be authorised to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, Dragutin Lesar, on a personal request. Second, for a member of the National Council to monitor the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, Nancy Tyreli is elected.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69662	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please make a statement. Who's in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Is anyone restrained? What's the score? I find that the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 102 votes in the text as proposed by the Selection Committee, the appointments. Seven, the Honorable President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69663	Proposal for a decision to appoint the president and members of the "Vladimir Nazor" award committee and to suspend the term of office of president and members of the "Vladimir Nazor" award. First, for the chairman of the Vladimir Nazor Award, he is named academician Milivove Solar. Secondly, for the members of the Vladimir Nazor Award Committee, they are named: academician Krešimir Nemec, academician Frano Parac, Miroslav Gašparović, Verica Robić-Škarica, Helena Buljan, academician Luko Paljetak, Milko Sparenblek and Zoran Zidarić. Thirdly, the chairman of the "Vladimir Nazor" award committee and members of the "Vladimir Nazor" award committee, academics Krešimir Nemec, academics Frani Parač, Miroslav Gašparović, Verica Robic Škarica, Helena Buljan, academician Boris Bucan, Milko Sparenblek and Zoran Zidaric, appointed by the decision to appoint the president and member of the "Vladimir Nazor" award during the two years of the legal period of 24 February 2014, expired the mandate for the behaviour of the duties to which they were appointed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69664	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a decision on who's in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? What's the score? I note that the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 101 votes in the text as proposed by the Selection and Appointing Committee. Congratulations to the selected colleagues and colleagues, I wish them success in their work in favour of all of us and the citizens of Croatia. Now we're done deciding. I would like the chairman of the Committee on Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Assembly of Honored Fellow Shim Lucin to submit a report to the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69666	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The selection, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament set out the following proposals at its last session. The first is the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member and the selection of a member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. 1. A member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament Natalija Martincevic is hereby authorised. 1. A member of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament is elected Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69667	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am making a statement of the proposed decision. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? What's the score? I find the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 107 votes in favour. Number two of the respected board presidents.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69668	Proposal for a decision on the discharge of a member and the selection of members of the Executive Board of the National Group of the Croatian Parliament at the Interparliamentary Union. 1. A member of the Executive Board of the National Group of the Croatian Parliament at the Interparliamentary Union of Natalija Martincevic is hereby dismissed. 1. A member of the Executive Board of the National Group of the Croatian Parliament at the Interparliamentary Union is elected Marijan Skurić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69669	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a statement on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? There is. What's the score? I note that the majority of the 106 votes voted in favour and with one abstention made the proposed decision as proposed by the Committee, in the text proposed by the Committee. Number three, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69670	Thank you. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of the deputy member and the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. 1. Deputy member of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development from the ranks of legislators Natalija Martincevic is hereby authorised. 1. As deputy member of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, it is named Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-07-0.u69671	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am making a statement of the proposed decision. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? What's the score? I find that, unanimously with 107 votes, the proposed decision in the text has been adopted as proposed by the Committee. Congratulations to the people who have been elected now in these working bodies, I wish them success in their work. We've also exhausted the voting list for today. I suggest we continue working at the plenary session next week and schedule a plenary session on Wednesday (April 9th). Please hold committee meetings, clubs if necessary at 9.30. Wednesday at 9.30 p.m. with first item Programme and financial report of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2012. Thank you very much. Every good thing! Dear colleagues of the MPs and respected colleagues, we continue the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament in accordance with the established agenda. It is now time to discuss and decide - A report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2012 The report was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The report was discussed by the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received reports from these working bodies of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Does the Government of the Republic of Croatia's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Minister of Health Marian Cesarik. Here you go.
