ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u89426	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There's nothing out of the ordinary in this country, given the situation we're in. Namely, on behalf of the HDSSB club, I am looking for a break of 10 minutes, and in connection with the situation and the situation in the Immunological and Immunological Institute of Zagreb. Last week we were looking for a break in Torcide. I think the Immunological Institute of Zagreb and the state as a strategic producer and vaccines and other products from plasma and state in it and the situation with 175 employees therefore deserve to speak in this Croatian Assembly. In addition, both you and I and all of us received e-mails in connection with the state of the Immunological Institute and cried out to start a debate that the Croatian Parliament would say at least a few words about the Immunological Institute in Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u89427	Thank you very much. You convinced me, too, I hope the Croatian public about the need for a break. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u89428	Mr. President for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u89429	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u89430	Dear President of the Croatian Assembly...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u89431	The same? Thank you very much. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u89432	Croatian Labourists are also looking for a break on the same issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u89433	The request for a break is gone from other clubs. I'm taking a break. At 9.45, enough? Thank you very much. I'll see you at 9.45 with the representatives' clubs. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] I would like the honourable representative Bora Grubisic to present the club's position on the subject he has announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u89435	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The other day here in St. John's Square. A protest by INA workers, the Immunological Institute and Croatian defenders took place by Mark. One would wonder what the INA workers have to do with the INA workers, and they do. Namely, each state rests on three strategic directions, owned by banks – finances which we do not have, owned by energy we also do not have because we have sold both to foreigners and owned by information. We also don't have it because we sold Croatian telecoms to foreigners. Why are the workers of the Immunological Institute Zagreb also here? Because it is a company, a company that is of strategic importance for Croatia and Croatian health care. Also, so strategic. Why is it strategic? Well, because it produces everything on her repertuary, so vaccines, plasma preparations, albumins, globulins, interferons, and everything that comes out. Why do they have anything to do with the defense attorneys? Because there would certainly be a lot more of those who would have succumbed to the Homeland War so that there would be no preparation of the Immunological Institute. Because on tons of plasma, tons of albumin, serums against tetanus, tetanus vaccines were used in the Homeland War, and products are made by the Zagreb Institute of Immunology. And certainly there would have been tetanus in the Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War much more in those conditions when there were both shelling and aviation and artillery and everything else had not been prepared by the Immunological Institute of Zagreb. The only vaccine, therefore the anti-viperinum serum against snake poison, is contained in the Immunological Institute of Zagreb vaccine, and the vaccine against morbils or mesas has been sold in Switzerland, India, Mexico. So it also has an export component. Nou Hau, who was then at the height of the Republic of Croatia, therefore the knowledge owned by the Immunological Institute and personnel and personnel he owned provided just that. And now we have a situation where you don't know who drinks or who pays. The Institute of Immunology Zagreb has come to a state of debt to its creditors, debts to its employees, etc. due to its lack of care. I read the decisions, so the meetings of the society, so the stock company of the Immunological Institute, and I saw that the Supervisory Board has been removed, that the directors of the administration are being changed, that one of these directors said that the employees are to be free I will not say Latin Ferces or excrements by Croatian goods spoken etc. The second director has the authority to say the school and professional pydgre that doesn't exactly fit the Immunological Institute, the director of the Institute of Immunology in Zagreb. What do you do? What can the Croatian Parliament do for the Immunological Institute of Zagreb? We received all e-mails individually from all 151 representatives in connection with the state of the Immunological Institute of Zagreb. It is strange that no credit can be used for the Immunological Institute in Zagreb. The state can't find a way, and it's a majority owner, and for example, instead of introducing unnecessary new phones in the IRS that cost 10 million and 300,000 kuna, we have about it in the media, mostly on the portals. So we already have 10 million. If the Immunological Institute of Zagreb still charged interest, it tightened interest rates, because you know how long it is to pay in health care. So, what directly delivered to Croatian healthcare he would not be in a negative would not be in debt. But it's common for us to have our hospitals pay after two, three years for what they owe, so what they get. Is this a normal health situation? I see he washes his hands and the health minister. He says I don't know. It's not mine, it's from the Minister of Economy. Everyone washes their hands, but everyone, literally wet in the fact that the Immunological Institute in Zagreb was technologically and humanely backward for several years, falling down and now came to this situation where there are 175 employees. It is also a symptomatic address of the Immunological Institute Rockefeller 2. I won't last any longer. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much, esteemed colleague.]] Which means Rockefeller's 2nd, but I think you're all clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u89436	Thank you too, dear colleague. The HDZ Club and Honored Representative Ivan Shuker on the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u89437	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, the Immunological Institute could be said to be a classic Croatian example or a question of whether or not you will. Because in our history over the past 24 years, there have been a lot of cases like this where there has been no political power to make a positive or negative decision, and that ultimately cost the country a lot. Regardless of what has happened over the past years and what the Competition Protection Agency has been saying about the loan for the Immunological Institute, I think it is crucial that the Ministry of Health says whether what the Immunological Institute is doing and producing them should and whether it is based on their knowledge and knowledge that Croatia is one of the few countries that has a specific way of collecting blood plasma, therefore from voluntary donors, and in principle it is one process that is really at a very high level in Croatia. I think these people should be publicly thanked for their blood donation over the years. However, in such a way and that plasma that comes in, in fact, the blood that comes in, the plasma produced by the Immunological Institute is of high quality and purity unlike when you buy it on the market and when unfortunately many who are on the edges of society sell either their organs or their blood to survive and in such a way very difficult to control certain things. So what's crucial at this point is that the status of the Immunological Institute must be resolved for a million and one reason. First of all, because of their supplies, due to their position tomorrow and in relation to EU members, because of the signing of the contract, because the whole process of building the Immunological Institute will take two or three years. And the logical thing is that it's very important to define a transitional period. And in order for the government to make such a decision, the Ministry of Health must firstly assess and assess whether such an institution needs Croatia or not. Whether these products need or do not need Croatia because of strategic interests. And when done, then the Ministry of Economy makes a second decision on the basis of economic criteria. And as far as the loan is concerned, this state has given so many guarantees over the past 24 years and if these conditions are met that I spoke about earlier, which is that the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Economy sit down and make a joint decision then those 6 billion kuna if you remember those mentioned in the Budget Implementation Act can be found as many as the Immunological Institute needs. So all it takes is political will and political courage. This is a typical example on domestic soil when we have a product, we have knowledge, we have brains, and instead of using it to sell it, those who don't have it at that level, no, we gamble with it. At the same time, we whine and whine that there are no investments in Croatia. Well, this may also be an eclectic example of how to send a negative message to potential investors. At the end of the day, colleagues and colleagues cannot look at the issue of health costs, some kind of health reform and whether any private initiative or anything about health care can go through in Croatia at all in this way. Because some have tried, we know how we ended up, I say, with the Immunological Institute. So look, the City of Zagreb has expressed its desire to get into this business. So let the government say if they're not ready to do this job here's the gentlemen from the City of Zagreb get into it. If they're not ready to get into this, this is a convenient opportunity for investors who are willing to invest in this kind of work to invite them to come. However, the government has put it in its envelopes, the government does not give anyone near and the final fate of every day regarding the Immunological Institute is becoming more uncertain. And what's most important is the blood and plasma in their reserves will unfortunately be due to the expiry date. There are no agreements that should be concluded no matter what happens to the Immunological Institute. And I repeat, this is a classic Croatian example where politics has no courage to answer the question or you will not. And that's why we've had an economic downturn all these years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u89438	Thank you too, dear colleague. It is the third club, the respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u89439	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues seem to care that the Immunological Institute is not working. Everything the Institute of Immunology has done so far, how much is the institution that is the strategic how important it is to the Republic of Croatia and should not be spoken. At the very beginning to say the President of the Croatian Parliament is not pleased when we are looking for a break, and we are looking for a break because we want to draw the attention of the Croatian public to the problems that the Government is pushing under the carpet. Problems that are obvious, but we just don't have another way. Another way is a written proposal that the government does not respect. How many times is it said that we should discuss foreign policy, we have never discussed it. To get back to the scale of things. The reasons why the Immunological Institute is in agony are actually an amazing, inadequate space. The end of so much space that both the Republic of Croatia and the City of Zagreb has the Immunological Institute is in agony because it was unable to arrange an adequate space. It's just a big carelessness. It didn't even have to give, for that arrangement of space that could be found, state guarantees. Because the Immunological Institute financed itself. It's a company that financed itself. They were exporters of vaccines and these were vaccines of the world class, vaccines against snake bites, tetanus, preparations of blood plasma that were of world quality. For five years, the Immunological Institute has worked with a temporary permit. And the inspector suddenly asked for the Immunological Institute to be closed. Why didn't the government then react and find a solution, give another permit for a year and initiate to arrange a space for the Immunological Institute? In addition, the neoliberal government that wants to sell out a lot of things could have placed shares on the market. It's absolutely certain that the shares of the Immunological Institute would be bought by people to buy interested ones. However, it seems to someone in the interest of the Immunological Institute to be closed and that importers profit on imports, the only goal is nothing else. Because agony that lasts more than five years, six years simply confirms that this thesis is correct. The question is, why did the director of the immunology open up the bankruptcy even though there were no conditions for bankruptcy? Although we have critically looked back on pre-fashion settlements many times, pre-fashion settlements are offering solutions that also did not want to be found. So, if the strategic goal of this government is to preserve the position, if the strategic goal of this government is to stop the brain drain from Croatia, if the strategic goal of this government is to stop leaving Croatia young educated people, and in the Immunological Institute works or has worked 175 people, 180 people where they are experts, so if they were World Class vaccines, then they are experts of the world class who will leave. All those in need of Europe will be picked up. And what are we going to do about it? We'll be a appendix in Europe, we'll be a labour force for Europe. It's nothing else, 'cause we're gonna lose all the power that's worth it. For what? Because we don't worry about it. So when a company with highly qualified personnel, a self-financed company, a company that owns a market, a company that did a good job, it collapsed because it was of no interest to find and arrange an adequate space to work in. It all smells like corruption, and it all stinks of someone wanting to shut down on purpose to profit as it is profited in many other activities that we have systematically destroyed for years or decades.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u89440	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zlatko Tušak on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u89441	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of the meeting of this session, Lesar asked the Prime Minister's Immunological Institute at the current morning. We were all witnesses at the time, the answer he received from the prime minister in a way that was uninterested in the answer and calling his colleague Lesar to flirt with the domestic unions and in some way alluded to asking that question. On the issue of the Immunological Institute, he said the economy minister would deliver a written response. I have to say, here's a little more today, so it's going to be a month, the economy ministers don't have any written answers. From this, we can conclude what the government's relationship with the Immunological Institute is, according to 180 employees there who have not received their salary for 4 months, who are given certain loans so that they can survive and are charged interest on those loans. Workers who can't direct their children to school, who can't meet their obligations and on the other hand, the Immunological Institute has been in the health service of this country for 120 years. Part of the product that my colleagues were talking about before me and this is also about the tetanus vaccine, according to some data, the import price of that vaccine is 15 times higher than the price produced by the Immunological Institute. Now we're asking ourselves a question in whose interest it is to destroy the long-term, slowly to the Immunological Institute, the institutions of the state remain deaf, nothing is done but here's when some kind of pressure is made then a little answer is going to be a minister of the economy or someone is giving a statement, and then it goes on for the next month and so the month after month until the moment comes when it comes to being said for immunologically there's no more chance, 180 people will no longer have a place to work, but it's likely that some others will benefit from the goal of the Immunological Institute being destroyed. Now these are the reasons why we have to point out from this pay phone in the Croatian Parliament certain problems, which we have to talk about in the end are we also representing these workers who work there, and their families who live hard, and clearly that we must aim at the survival of every company, especially the company that owns this country and how in this case the Government refers to the Immunological Institute. That it will practically come to the fact that a company that is very much needed in Croatia can be an export company with its products, eventually be destroyed and nothing will be left of it. I don't want to say this again, what all my colleagues before me were talking about, but I think this is a place to point out this problem and ask the Government, the Ministry of Economy, but clearly the prime minister not to behave like that when it comes to an important company that the government has to take care of. And if the economy minister didn't have the answers right away to give them, the second or third day on the issue of the Immunological Institute, then he has to force them to send that written statement, so that we all get to know about the situation and what this government and the Ministry of Economy are going to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u89442	Thank you very much. Normally, therefore, I agree that the topic of the Immunological Institute is acute and current. We will also intervene on what our colleague Tušak has presented, so we will ask that the Ministry of Economy be manifested because you have referred a parliamentary question so that all MPs in the Croatian Parliament and thus the Croatian public will be given the position of the competent ministry and thus the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As far as the satisfaction or dissatisfaction of the President of the Parliament is concerned, it is not important for you or the Croatian public to respect the business provisions, and this is an exception from the Rules of Procedure which has become a parliamentary rule and that is how we act. Secondly, since you have called me in some way, I also think that the Immunological Institute of Publicly Known Facts indicates that there is an economic, health and social reason for this institution to survive, but it is not a matter that an individual thinks but that we get qualified from both the competent body certified information and the point of view which, therefore not only in the Croatian Parliament, but also to the Croatian public, will tell what is going to happen. In that sense, I don't think we've done anything beyond standard in the Croatian Parliament, but I still stress that it was not a business-planned situation. And now we are going to the topics that are foreseen in the agenda of the Croatian Parliament. I got a tip that we have a request for, we have a request of common, respected colleague Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u89444	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, on behalf of the Labourist, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes because of the new state of affairs at the Immunological Institute and I think we should talk about it today here in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u89445	... We'll write it all down, Nancy Tyrelli, Croatian Labourists, all right. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] HDZ, Ivan Schuker. You got it, Boro Grubisic. Yeah, well, if Boro raised his first hand, I'm sorry about my colleague Shucker. Boro Grubisic, HDSSB. Ivan Schuker and then a colleague of Vuksic. Who's next or no more interest in the subject? The above is agreed at 9.45, enough, follow-up. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] I'd like to ask the esteemed representative, Nancy Tyrell, to present the club's position on the issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u89447	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we heard yesterday that the workers of the Immunological Institute were paid for the 8th month but that the state also managed to collect taxes and contributions for the 8th, 9th and 10th months and certainly all by law. Our laws are what they are, and here at the Immunological Institute, and at this salary pay, we see all the generosity of such a system. At a time when the economy is in a major crisis when entrepreneurs do not have liquid assets, the state still collects its claims. In this case, three months is important for us to pay taxes and contributions, and the question is whether we have to pay or not. Agonia in the Immunological Institute has been going on for a very long time, however, this agony does not only last in the Immunological Institute but it lasts in other firms and what is worst at all is that in a large number of companies where the state is a majority or exclusive owner of workers, it is becoming slower and slower to receive salaries, or it is going on very many months from obligation to their current account. Which is why it would certainly be discussed, but given the time I would like to point out a few things that we should change urgently. The first and basic basis for paying off contributions should be payouts, as long as we don't put it in such a relationship, things will happen to us that are happening to us. We like to boast here in the Croatian Parliament that we have done a lot in the protection of workers, that we have declared the non-payment of salaries a criminal offense, but it is simply partly true because we have again tried to say in this same law that it is not a criminal offence unless the payout was paid, and it was not done with intent or company that did not pay the salary at that time had no money in its account to do so. So we haven't done anything, the workers are still unprotected and this example of the Immunological Institute shows it best and most vividly. Regardless of the statements we hear about workers getting paid when the other hospitals bought their goods, we are all aware that the week at the Immunological Institute lasts about 90 days. Burned by everything that's been going on, it's hard to believe as long as it doesn't happen. In this case, the state has shown a truly maternal relationship with its assets, it has shown that it does not know how to manage companies owned by it. It's not the only company in the Immunological Institute that's been involved in the construction of a crane and engine factory in Rijeka since 8 months, either, it's a state-owned company. The Immunological Institute is not an isolated case, and I think we all have to think about what and how we should do it together. It might be desirable to get one report from the State Office for State Property Management and to get on one paper list how many workers in Croatia are managed by the State and the Agency for the Management of State Assets as much as they are asked for, and what can be done to make these salaries really and to sit on the current employee account. With what the state is doing, we can say that we live in a tax apartheid because here again are the cases that we want and we have to charge taxes, the state has to have its own, and then we have equal practice again, unequal treatment. We charge one of them, we forgive the other, again I say everything according to the law that is clearly not good and to the harm of the workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u89448	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic on behalf of the HDSSB club on the same topics and problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u89449	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Yeah, I'm going to repeat one sentence from a colleague of the predecessor who spoke and said at one point the state has to pay taxes. True, but whether this same tax administration, which collects taxes, must forge the name of a public tender, commit a criminal offence, e.g. Public tender for the upgrade of services and equipment in the network subsystem and to accommodate one supplier or supplier in 2014. 5.5 million kuna and another 5.5 million kuna in 2015, although this has not even been written in the 2014 budget. So the tax administration spends on exchange phones in other words and telephone stations 10.5 million kunas of our money, your money, citizens' money, taxpayers' money. And we swear and I listened to Minister Lalovec yesterday in savings, cutting and all. 130 new power plants are thrown and 4 thousand phones completely correct, unwritten, are thrown to get new equipment even though these phones and these plants are much better than those, for example. It's not about that. It's about the Immunological Institute. Last week, when I was talking about the Immunological Institute, I said, and you can take a phonogram, when our hospitals would pay, so what was delivered to them from the Immunological Institute, the Immunological Institute wouldn't be in crisis, financially. And here's what happened these days that just by paying our hospitals, so there's going to be payouts, says 8 months already yesterday and in this week and for the remaining 3 months, 9, 10 and 11. What does that mean? Who manages hospitals, and who delivers money to them, how do hospitals have money? Well, HZO. And HZZO is the 44% owner of the Immunological Institute. So in one case, therefore, the payment of money from hospitals according to the Immunological Institute decides HZZO as well as the acceptance of money in HZZO, a pardon at the Immunological Institute by our hospitals. And there's still debt, there's still debt, and more hospitals are going to pay money at the expense of the Immunological Institute. And if we were looking at old debts and counting interest on it then the Immunological Institute could say flowering and blooming. I've been talking, and now I'm going to say a new problem about the Immunological Institute, personally, as a fellow doctor with the president of the Red Cross, which is in contact with 180 thousand, I don't say with each individual but they have associations, voluntary blood donors. Among them, the government tells me that if the Immunological Institute is privatized, as someone intends to sell it and sell it out, there will be no longer be at least no more knowing what percentage of voluntary blood donors in Croatia. What would make someone a private profit? Remember this. Last time I said if hospitals pay debts Immunologically they'll get on their feet, that's how it was this time. Now, remember what I'm saying to you that voluntary blood donors will give up many of the voluntary blood donations, from voluntary blood donations, I'm not saying there won't be any donors, in case Imunologically go into private hands, anyone. And we know who's buzzing just isn't the place on this phone to say who is, I said Rockefeller's 2, a very interesting address, a very interesting quarter of town for some who have some money, it doesn't matter what kind of, washed, unwashed, how earned to buy a building in Rockefeller's 2. We passed the law here in the Croatian Parliament by which the crime is a non-payment of salaries Who's the head defaulter? [[The Vice President: Thank you very much, Your Honor.]] Well, the state in this case. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u89450	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club in the Croatian Parliament, respected representative Ivan Shuker, on the same subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u89451	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, the payout thing is just a continuation of the state's behavior and attitude that simply doesn't want to make it clear what it wants with the Immunological Institute but apparently the state has logically first to take on itself and then to others what survives. But what I said 10 days ago, I'll say today. I think the key thing is that the Ministry of Health should finally say whether or not she needs an Immunological Institute is the key thing. And if that's the case, then the Ministry of Economy is making a suggestion on how this Immunological Institute is supposed to look tomorrow. However, it is very interesting that the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance who has the money and who knows how many reserves of Immunological Institute products were also able to agree with the business bank that the business bank is based on these supplies that will buy tomorrow from Croatian hospitals to some loan, loan or something to solve the problem of the Immunological Institute, that there is good will both in the DUDI and the Ministry of Economy, above all in the Ministry of Health, then this would be done. Thus, with this seemingly unsustainable situation, a solution can be found that will first and foremost satisfy the workers of the Immunological Institute. Again in Croatia, we do not appreciate the experience, knowledge, smartness and practical product of our own and we, unfortunately, in Croatia, can at this moment boast a little with our own products that we can sell on the market. Apparently, some interests and interests of some stakeholders are ahead of the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia above all. And the good question that my colleague Grubisic said is, if the Immunological Institute moves into private hands how many voluntary donors will be more willing to give blood to someone whose private property it is to make a living on it, they'll probably be looking for some sort of compensation for what's logical. However, we must again repeat that in Croatia we have a brilliantly developed system of voluntary giving of blood and these people and this opportunity should be thanked because with this gesture, with this act they have saved thousands of lives in the past tens of years and that is simply the fact that here in this assembly, we have to say for this speaker. We have to say one big thank you to those people. And now the question is, with this unresolved problem, the indecisiveness of the government that we send above all these people. 'Cause look what's going on out there, blood is being bought. It is unfortunately bought from risk groups and the question is what is the quality of the preparation after it is made. I wouldn't talk about it because I don't know about it, I could say something wrong, so I'd rather not get involved in it, but this is one general life thing. You remember sometimes from factories like this, so, after all, the political parties are organising blood donations, so let's get out of our way and so that's something that might be most valuable in this whole story in Croatia. And now we need to ask ourselves whether we are destroying a system that worked great, a human system that worked great and whether today, at a time when there is less and less humanity and when, unfortunately, there is also a great depression in the Republic of Croatia, we have the right to do so. It's a key question that needs to be asked. You can imagine how voluntary blood donors feel when this is how they discuss the Immunological Institute, when someone simply doesn't recognize the need to save something. And I'm going to end with this, so the government, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Health, an isolated HZZO Institute from the State Treasury from the first, with any business bank, could arrange some kind of bridge credit on behalf of the supplies that exist at the Immunological Institute, but before that anyone who would give the money would want to hear from this government what she wants and how that Immunological Institute sees in the future, and then this problem wouldn't be the way it is. But on the trail of simply not having the courage to make a decision and to implement the reforms of the past three years we are here where we are. The Immunological Institute is just another indicator of the ineffectiveness of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u89452	Thank you too, dear colleague. It is up to the club of independent representatives Linic, Vuksic, Hodzic and respected representative Branko Vuksic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u89453	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. If someone on the side looked, they'd ask what's going on, what's the lesson in this whole story. You need to destroy everything that's good. No one can tell me that it's not the intention of destroying the Immunological Institute. More people will go to space taxis on Mars than the government can solve the problem of the office that has worked fantasticly, which has achieved excellent results, which was an example of work in Croatia, good work, which was an example of European excellent vaccines and blood products. So when something best doesn't work, and it doesn't work because the state doesn't function, and the state like you said... lie, imagination, it's people, it's the government, we're talking about the government. The government is unable to resolve the INA, how will it solve the INA? how will it solve unemployment problems? How it will solve everything that is accumulated if it cannot solve the problem of an institution that is very important in Croatia, which has done excellent work, which has not been a problem for so long until an inspector has shown up who has said that the premises should be restored. We are not able in Croatia to restore the premises in a year, to move the Immunological Institute somewhere. Is that true? That's not true. It's just that the Immunological Institute is trying to destroy itself. Is it because of work, is it because Croatia is not allowed to produce anything and not even vaccines or blood preparations? Who are we bothering? Just remember the Pliva, remember the Pliva that was pushed under the carpet. What's done with Pliva that could be an engine of development? What did we do? We sold it for a handful of dollars and now that we're in the end, what do we have? To remove Pliva, that's why it was done. Of course, it's not a contribution problem, it's not a tax problem, it's a state-run problem, it's a problem when a country takes a bad example, when the state doesn't respect the laws that are passed here in the Parliament. We bring here to the Parliament that default is a criminal offense and then what does the state do? The state that owns the company doesn't pay the wages, and we would punish the employers privately for the same work. Well, we don't have the right to do that, and we don't have the right here in the House to remain silent. When the trade unions go out and talk at different seminars and say what happens to you when someone doesn't pay their wages, they ask you please repeat the question, they don't understand because there is no such thing, because there is probably no state in the European Union that doesn't pay, and the Croatian State behaves as no one should behave. That's when you should be a teacher, when you should be a teacher role model, and the professor is the worst. So all that's going on with the Immunological Institute is actually a picture of the state of affairs. Do we need an Immunological Bureau? Looks like the government doesn't have to react. They say the problem of the Immunological Institute is to solve the problem complex process. Imagine, a complex process is to solve the problem of a company that has fantastic business, which has 175 experts, which is loud. That's the problem. So how is he going to get rid of it all the time, we're saying that our target is one and a half million employees. So we cannot preserve a company that is positive and needs Croatia. Without a doubt, someone wants to destroy the Immunological Institute. And this government has shown, by this example, ten days ago we spoke. The minister spoke several times Monday for 7 days' pay. Ministers no longer need to be trusted, the prime minister should no longer be trusted, because what they say is not true. And if it wasn't true, we made sure of it ourselves. I'm not gonna say that word that should be said here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u89454	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the classic situation in the Croatian Parliament, ahead of the topic. Clubs represent their position, which is fine, the intention of good. But I must say, according to the Rules of Procedure, the debate is not parliamentary. There is no replica, no response from the government, no... I'll just finish my job, and I'll give you my word if you're looking for it. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Nor does there often continue to be a position through the bill, and the bill should come here at least to change the payment or payment lines. Therefore, to establish that we have a carad system, and beyond that does not propose to amend and supplement the Payment and Payment Priorities Act, that it is not simply a credible position. Secondly, I think it is repeated here and I will now repeat in both the public and the Croatian Parliament there are no dissonant tones when it comes to the justification of the existence and work of the Immunological Institute in Croatia, nor is there an economic reason for the loss of activity, nor is there a social or health care. Therefore, we are all aware that it has begun to receive, that is, the payment of funds produced by the Immunological Institute, and that is the best in the process. And I expect from you colleagues and colleagues, yes or at least a representative question or a bill regarding the problems you have raised. Thank you very much. And now we are going to the topics provided for in the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, and now there is a debate on - The final draft law on amendments to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 731 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. The amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on this proposal was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Labour and Pension System Miranda Mrsic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94540	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs, respected MPs. Before I begin my presentation, I would like to congratulate today on all those who need to mark the day of persons with disabilities. Today, 60 years ago, in 1956, a major accident occurred in a mine in Belgium, then 262 miners died and on the basis of a major accident that was one of the biggest accidents in coal mines was decided, the UN decided to celebrate today as a day and mark it as a day for people with disabilities. It may be fate that today we begin to debate the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities because employment of persons with disabilities is a social obligation, a commitment of the state, a obligation of local self-government, obligations and employers. A socially responsible employer must have a sensitivity to people with disabilities. For years in Croatia, we have tried in some way to promote the employment of people with disabilities, any promotional measures, any incentives, any legal force, or certain contributions to the employment of people with disabilities, and can say that all these measures we have tried to introduce have not led to the results we expected. Persons with disabilities are the best workers, people with disabilities can bring a lot of benefits to the employer. One thing is to break the prejudice that a person with disabilities can't be a quality worker because he'll be long on sick leave. According to the experience of employers, people with disabilities are at least going to be sick because they are, therefore, working, because work allows them to get out of social exclusion, to get out of their apartments, to be part of society and to make a living, and to make a living based on it, to fulfill their desires and their dreams. On the other hand, hiring a disabled person brings a new quality, which is tolerance. On the other hand, it also makes it clear that people who may not have all the opportunities as well as healthy persons to work at a particular workplace, with certain adjustment and assistance from other employees, are allowed to work most normally as well as all other employees, a spirit of communityism is created, and after that conversation with employers who employ people with disabilities is that spirit of tolerance and community much greater than in some other cases. To hire a person with disabilities is socially responsible and something that should be the task of each employer. But clearly, we must be aware that this is not the case and that we must in a certain way promote the employment of persons with disabilities. So we passed the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, and when we brought it in, we said that we would implement it for a year and that we would begin to implement it in full strength in 1.1.2015. That's when we said that in the labour market we'd see how the law would be implemented. Our goal is to hire as many persons with disabilities as possible, and less is to make employers who have an obligation to employ people with disabilities because by law we go to the so-called. quota employment that must pay a certain fee. I note that this fee is defined as 30% minimum wage, which is approximately 903 kuna. Let me just point out that our neighbours of the Slovenians do this quota job, that fee in case you fail to fulfil the obligation imposed on you by the law is at 70% minimum wage. On the other hand, the funds that will be collected in such a way will not go to the budget, will not go to the salaries it will return and will be intended to stimulate employers who will employ more persons with disabilities than how much quota they are set, will be intended to adapt jobs, to promote inclusive workshops, to protect workshops. On the other hand, the aim of this law is to include employment of disabled persons from that inclusive workshop, protection workshops, to companies that will employ people with disabilities. We are not intended to punish employers, there have been some questions that this law goes to punish employers. No, we do not want to punish employers but we want to point out that it is necessary to socially approach this problem and, in any case, wherever possible to enable people with disabilities to be employed. The amendments to the laws that are before you today are the changes resulting from the monitoring of the implementation of this law. I note that we have already announced, that we will implement the law, that we will look at how we will apply it even better in the labour market. Therefore, we prescribe the power of the Institute of Skills and Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities d to provide solutions on the obligation to pay cash compensation for those debtors who do not fulfil the payment obligation in the manner and time limits prescribed by law. Payment of payments from those companies that are obliged to do so will be done by the Tax Administration with those powers it has, and the solution will be made by the Bureau. To immediately review here the discussion of quotas and quota employment, we are in intensive talks with employers and with associations of persons with disabilities as you know in the law, and we have then said that at the end of the year we will evaluate those quotas and the basis of the person with disabilities being entered into that eyewitness where we know exactly what company we have until the end of the year. So we're probably going to revise these quotas in a way that we're going to go into a single quota that's going to be significantly less than 6% and it's going to be slightly larger than 2%. In such a way, we have met and employers who have been in a certain fear that they will not be able to meet the quota or with the wish that persons with disabilities will not be able to satisfy it because of the relatively high threshold, so that after the adoption of this law, we will determine a quota that is likely to be unique to everyone, all with the aim of implementing the law is simple and unique. Also since we have a unique income tax form and income via JOPPD forms we will have the possibility of effective control of the collection of these fees because we will follow through JOPPD and the employment of people with disabilities. On the proposal of the Ombudsman for a person with disabilities, we also introduced the part that is linked to the right of advantage in the employment of persons with disabilities because there was a lack of definition of the evidence of disability which caused the inability to exercise that right even though it was declared in the law. A person with disabilities could not exercise this right and on the other hand they were partly discriminated against other groups that have the right to take advantage of the employment of persons with disabilities. We agreed on this, so we also set up the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, so that we prescribe the right of advantage in the same way, that neither more, nor less, so in the same way and in such a way in agreement and with the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities. We believe that this discriminatory effect of previous laws has also been eliminated. In addition to hiring people with disabilities, the law introduces a new system of professional rehabilitation. For many years in Croatia, instead of professional rehabilitation, we sent our workers to a disability pension because it was possible to say it in some way and simpler than to train a man to work in another job. Which led to these workers being less than old age pensions, we excluded them from being able to have a pension worthy of their lives. Therefore, we believe that in Croatia we need to make a turn towards this area and introduce a professional rehabilitation, which means that when a certain physical disability is established to enable the rehabilitation process to get the ability and work in other jobs and to work in place of a disability pension until your retirement. We are not discovering hot water, it is a system that has been in the European Union for many years, one of the best examples is Austria which has a very well-developed rehabilitation centre system. We're going to set up five of these centers for now, set up by local self-government in co-operation with the state. So we also have a great interest in local self-government in Zagreb, Osijek, in Split, so all where and so far there have been protection workshops or where there has been a tradition of professional rehabilitation and employment of disabled people. As far as employers are concerned, apart from the unique rate as I have already mentioned which will be significantly smaller than 6%, we will also allow employers to have replacement quotas. And this means that if they are obliged to employ a person with disabilities and cooperate with the Association of Persons with Disabilities or are in a business relationship with a company that employs persons with disabilities, they are thus allowed to replace the quota and are not obliged to pay this part, then 30% of the minimum wage. One example is, let's say, co-operation between URIHO and KONČAR, where the URIHO makes some small parts for generators that KONČAR does, therefore, is one successful long-term cooperation, and we want to promote that other companies work together with associations that hire or companies that employ people with disabilities. In this way, I hope that we will raise the protection workshop to a higher level and allow the protection workshops to develop as much as possible so that this part of the employment of people with disabilities is also realised through the protection workshops. So one indirect route, by cooperating between employers and protection workshops, we end up getting increased employment of people with disabilities. Also, if the company scholarships the regular education of persons with disabilities or enters a business cooperation agreement with a self-employed person, it will also enter into the replacement quota and thus the employer will not need to pay as I have said if he has not fulfilled his obligation. As far as foreign offices are concerned, the law excludes the obligation of the quota employment of persons with the disability of the representation of foreign persons because these foreign persons do not have legal status in the Republic of Croatia, they have been principled outside of Croatia and thus we have solved the problem that has arisen during these years of law enforcement. It is clear that if foreign representations employ people with disabilities that this is socially responsible and that they will be truly welcomed by everyone who has something to say about this law. We also allow these amendments to the laws to allow working units for the employment of disabled persons to achieve the status of an integral workshop and not only protection workshops, as prescribed by the applicable law or that they do not have to have the characteristics of either of these two forms of employment, but for the sake of easier organisation of work, it can act as a separate work unit of the employer in which persons with disabilities work. So we also allow companies to set up their own workshops in which they will employ disabled persons who will be part of their work process, which is another new step towards having better employment in Croatia for people with disabilities. We also simplify the process of exercising the right to incentives in the employment of persons with disabilities provided by the institution in such a way that employers will not have to provide evidence of the fulfilment of the conditions for the exercise of the right to incentives, but these evidence is ensured by the exchange of data between the competent authorities, so the institutions, the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration and the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. Therefore, employers will not have to deliver a variety of documents, so the automatic exchange of data will be established in the office because it is the obligation of the state, not the obligation of the employer, but the obligation of the state and these preconditions have already been made so that since 1.1 when quota employment starts and that part will be resolved. Since the Institute for Professional Rehabilitation and Training and Employment of Persons with Disabilities is the Institute that grows into a public institution with a great goal, which is to unite the whole process from skill and employment to people with disabilities. As you know, the Law on the Single Body of Art has been passed, it has been brought here in the Assembly, and therefore a single body of art is formed in the institution that aims to unite all the skills in all parts of the state administration because we have been going to get different solutions for the same physical damage in different systems. Therefore, one of the objectives of this unique body is to unite skills, to ensure that these skills are unique and based on this single finding and on the views of experts from the single body, people with disabilities will then exercise certain rights in different parts of the system. So there will no longer be a need to be skilled at the Institute of Pensions, at the Institute of Health, at the Social Care Centre than there will be unique skills in one place, and with that opinion of the witches you will exercise your rights in the health, pension or social system. This institution, or a unique body, brings another novelty, which is that finally the experts as a profession will get their dignity. So far, they have been deployed in parts of the system and it is clear that in the Pension Insurance Office, the primary pensions, the pension rights, and that the skills have always been somewhere else. With the creation of a single body, witches gain their dignity. On the other hand, I expect that in this way we will get more fellow medics who will decide on that call, perhaps even sooner than I now mention that our average of witches is more than 50 years old, that we have a problem with the involvement of witches because simply people do not want to go into this very difficult occupation and a very responsible profession. I note that only one false decision of the witches, or one non-supported pension, is somewhere from 500 000 kuna and upwards. Therefore, the profession should be well-trained, we should give rise and therefore we believe that there should also be expert bodies, therefore supervisory and advisory. And what I expect is that this unique body of art will lead to the fact that we will also have persons who will decide after medical school that their call will be artificial and work in that system. What do you say in the end? The application of the law begins on 1 January 2015. The system is ready. It is clear that there will be certain misunderstandings and misunderstandings in the implementation because we are going into a whole new system, and we are going to a new system of art. For the first time in this system of art, there will be a unique council that will consist of colleagues who are medics, on the other hand, social workers, logos, psychologists. So one very demanding system of art is set up, all with the aim of having those who enter the system, who have the right to get those rights, but on the other hand, those who try to hunt in the blur and who try to get non-regime rights not to be possible. On the other hand, we expect that the law will bring an increased number of people with disabilities and that it will do the third most important thing, which is to raise our awareness in society that it is necessary to employ people with disabilities, that this is socially responsible, and that, on the other hand, the state with its own mechanisms should, it must and may encourage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94541	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We have two replicas. Honorable representative Branko Hrg, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94542	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister. So any mention of persons with disabilities on the International Day of Persons with Disabilities is absolutely welcome and acceptable to everyone and especially if a law is passed that should improve their position and status in society. A little bit of me in this law rejoices that special working units will be able to form what is written, but I would like to ask a little more questions, some clarifications regarding the model of social entrepreneurship. I think you're familiar with the situation in the company in Križevci founded by the disabled association along with the city, with the support of the ministry and incentives, and now there are problems. It means whether such companies will be able to be treated as special working units in this part of the same or be in someone else's or should be defined in law as such. Why would I ask that? Because we lack systematic concern. Namely, what's this about? Now that the employees, when they've been educated, when they've started to produce, we're in a situation where they're being interrupted by these support and encouragements. And now you say take people through public works or some other way, from the Employment Service, but you can't take people who never made chocolate and start producing and now we're getting into trouble. It means whether this law could be further complemented and predicting that we have one systematic concern about the employment of persons with disabilities and about situations where people with disabilities work in certain companies that are in some way primarily and founded to work in people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94543	Replica response, respected Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94544	Thank you very much. There's a nice story in the Križevci where we're here and we've been involved in starting this workshop that I hope will expand and it's really good and the products are good that go out, they're beautiful. Those praline are really beautiful and quality. Only now with this law will we be able to go to that second step. Therefore, the Office for Professional Rehabilitation and Art and Employment of Persons with Disabilities can now provide incentives for employment under this law. What we could not through the Croatian Employment Service for support and all that, here through this system, so through the system of the Institute you can get support. And I think some contacts have already been made between, so here after the new year, I think that's going to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94545	Thank you very much. The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94546	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. Here today, on the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, you've really talked to a lot of people here, and I'd say piety and explain what to do, you've been calling for sensitivity. But, Mr. Minister, what is important is to point to the problem, the problem needs to be sensitized and solved. So tell me why yesterday when we had the day we were bringing in and we voted in favour of the amendments in the budget this government did not accept any absolute amendment from fellow academics Reiner, and he specifically referred to education and students, and high school students, persons with disabilities to accessibility, the transport of students and persons with disabilities. You're talking, and all the funds would move away, take the President's office, and he certainly wouldn't feel it. But this government would show how sensitive it is. You see, you're saying it's a very good move. It is, setting up a center, indeed. But you put them down to local self-government, and at the same time, by passing one Income Tax Act to local self-government, you denied hundreds of thousands of kunas, somewhere millions, and how the local self-government would take over this obligation. And there's something else I'd like to ask you, Mr. Secretary. How sensitized the ministries are, specifically, how many of you have employees in your ministry belonging to agencies and institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94547	Replica response, respected Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94548	Thank you very much. Here's to the last question. So, at the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, we should have 8 people with disabilities employed. We've got three so far. Therefore, we will pay the quota for those 5, and given that the competitions are going and that I believe that given that a certain portion of the people are gone, we will probably hire a part of the people with disabilities. I note, that we received, so that part of the ministry is an inspectorate of work in which people with disabilities can't do all the jobs, but they can do others. So I believe that we will meet that quota next year. As far as local self-government is concerned, I have a proposal for a contract to set up a Centre for Professional Rehabilitation between the state, so the Republic of Croatia and a local self-government not to bid now on who is and what is where, where the Republic of Croatia has 40% stakes and that local self-government 60%. So local self-government recognizes the importance of rehabilitation centres. I note that our proposal is 50% state, 50% local self-government. So there are local self-governments who want it to be different, so I don't see it, not according to me and in conversations with local self-government. In fact, I think it's an interest to establish these centers extremely large. It is a partner agreement between the state and local self-government, something that is important not only for the state and local self-government, but is extremely important for all those who will use the services of these centres.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94549	Thank you very much. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, the working committees want? Yeah. Do I understand? No, I don't. Before I open the debate, first of all, I'd like to let you know how we plan to work. So, according to the established agenda today, we'd be doing the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh agenda. These are Laws 731, 739, 743, 757. Then, the next points of the eighth, the ninth, the tenth and eleventh and the twelfth would be united. They're all from the Department of Defense's field or section, so given the circumstances, if I had no time to discuss the 13th, 14, 15th and 16th agendas, we'd skip for today and continue with the 17th agenda. So that's the plan of today's itinerary. If we get there, that'd be good. It all depends on your respected colleagues and colleagues. ... Today, yes. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I've said everything. So I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going to the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The Club of Independent Representatives Linic, Vuksic, Hodzic and the Honorable Representative Branko Vuksic is on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94550	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with an associate. Here comes the day when I once agree with Minister Mrsic and the club will support the amendments to the law. But let's discuss reality. This, Mr. Minister, which you have spoken segmentally about the very law that makes changes, the necessary changes, which have been, by experience of these changes, the necessity of change is one thing. And the other thing is what my colleague Sumrak was saying earlier, the other thing is the relationship between the most important political document and that's the budget. The relationship to the parts of society that I consider to be neglected. What you've been saying all along your exposure is very important, to awaken consciousness. The most important thing is to awaken the awareness of society that it treats people with disabilities differently. But you need to awaken consciousness in the government to treat these people differently. Just now, the question is, how many people with disabilities are employed in the ministry? I would wonder how many persons with disabilities are employed in the Croatian Parliament? How many people with disabilities are usually employed in state institutions, in public companies? How many people with disabilities are employed on Croatian Radio and have 3,000 and some employees, and I know that journalists who are great journalists, and people with disabilities cannot get fees greater than 2000 kuna. And that relationship with them is terrifying. That lack of empathy is amazing. And which means, before you said that Slovenians pay 70%, I wouldn't call it fees, let's call it punishment because it should be punishment, because whoever doesn't do it has to be punished. How is it that, what happens, people with disabilities are not employed in public companies, public institutions, and then who pays what you say? The taxpayer's pocket pays. The director of HRT needs to be replaced, the person in charge of the operation of the Croatian Parliament should be punished if this is not done because if we just stay on 900 kuna we will do nothing. One of the heads of the disability group said that many employers would rather pay 900 kuna than hire people with disabilities. Because that's a lot easier for him. It means that those 900 kunas are a little bit, like you said yourself. Which is why it should not be fully paid means minimum income, not 30% of the minimum income. So the total amount of minimum income if someone disobeys the obligation they have. If society is determined for this concept that you have put out, and society needs to be defined because the concept is good, then we all have to respect that law and we need to abide by it. There are no exceptions and no favors. And no one can say that private entrepreneurship is being choked. You, Mr. Minister, said yourself they're disabled, that people with disabilities are one of the best workers. They've shown research that deaf people are the best workers of all the workers in the world. That's what world research has shown. So the law says that. Not all companies, all companies, private and public employees due to the nature of the job of a disabled person but can therefore compensate for their obligation in other ways. By scholarship people with disabilities. There are well-designed ways and they are good and in law they are well-founded. If the idea of society is equal opportunities and equal rights, then we should finally stick to it. But then the Government of the Republic of Croatia should also stick to its budget. So she must respect those postulates she imposes herself. You said, and it's stipulated by law that it's going to be strict control. However, I repeat, penalties, no fees, penalties are too mild. You said, and it says in the light of the law, that it's not the purpose to punish but to motivate. After World War II, the Germans predicted that judicial reform would take them up to 10 years. After 10 years, they realized that they could not implement these reforms without severe penalties. And that's why justice works with them. Not because they're better quality people than because they've established a system. So here and here, let's not use the flossulas to motivate, we won't punish. One who disobeys the law should be punished. No motivations in Croatia go through. Because you've seen that every hole in the law will be played by all employers and by those in public companies, in state companies, in state institutions, in local self-government. Honor the exceptions. Speaking of which, you mentioned playing, you mentioned the URIHO earlier as a good example, but the URIHO has a big spot or that stain should be washed with the DORH's obvious because the claims that come from former employees and part of the URIHO employees say there are large machinations happening. That URIHO gets privileged status in job tenders and leaves it to other companies and actually launders money through URIHO. The DORH is obliged to finally respond, or remove these doubts or punish those who do so. We know that there are people who have spoken publicly about it, we've mentioned it several times here, until today I've asked two or three times, every time the State's Attorney's Report is on the agenda to say at least one sentence about the URI. He's never been obvious, and there are doubts. It's a city company where they say there's a job set-up. I hope it will be covered by these latest studies. Therefore, there are also companies that are cool, which employ people with disabilities who are cults for money laundering. Well, that's what we need to talk about publicly and manifest ourselves. It is very important that the support of this law was given by the Croatian Employers' Association, which they gave at least so in the light of the law I hope is true, the Chamber of Commerce and crafts. So employers, which means producers have nothing against, they probably also realized that people with disabilities are very good quality workers who can contribute to society. One of the important issues that are raised and which disabled associations ask is the question of disability. When a person with disabilities is employed she loses the right to a disability and therefore there is no overinterest, because 6,300, 6 and some thousand people with disabilities are on the job market. So the salaries that these people get in companies, whether they're public companies or they're private, they're somewhere, somewhere as much as a disability. If in this ratio of wages and disability is actually the same ratio then people with disabilities lose their job motives. So many countries don't end disability when a person with disabilities is employed. That's all the more reason I'm not gonna talk about right now. All of these things that you've been talking about, which is the most important art, and then the establishment of the centers you've been saying, which have passed on to local self-government, is the question of whether local self-government, you said that local self-government has recognized the government's insistence, I believe, but do local self-government primarily have monetary potential, means material potential, and do they have the human resources to implement what the law requires them to do? So this law will be supported. The intentions of the law are good, but practice also warns us of many questions that I have asked here if we do not give the answers clearly and precisely, that this law will again be one of the dead letters on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94551	Thank you, Your Honor. We have a replica of the respected representative Ivan Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94552	Most of the time, I agree with my colleague Vuksic, but the whole problem we're talking about today seems to be strained and there will be nothing of it because we already have 300,000 jobless people, and here we are talking about the employment of disabled people. I don't mind, though, that disabled people are employed, but I agree with the compensation given to them unless they're employed as minimal and should be increased at the expense of employers who won't hire disabled people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94553	Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94554	Dear colleague Grubisic, I agree with this one of yours, the replica was very short, my reply to the replica will be even shorter. It is absolutely certain that what the respected minister was saying should sensitize society, but I repeat, it is up to the government to sensitize the government and to have special empathy for people with disabilities and to try to sensitize society and only respect its laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94555	Honorable representative Damir Kai's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94556	I'm interested in something else. How many people should be employed in the Republic of Croatia in this way? Has anyone done those calculations? According to some in local self-government, a circus of 7,000 people should be hired. About as busy as they are from the crisis here, and in state companies, ministries, agencies, etc. Maybe 15,000 people. It is clear that everyone would prefer when we talk about the real sector to pay those 900 kunas than they would hire a disabled person, or although praise is worth the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce. However, in order for someone to also reach 900 kuna in the real sector, in some store, trade, etc. He needs to turn around, reverse somewhere around 10,000 kunas. We, on the other hand, must raise to the pedestal anyone who opens or provides jobs. The recession in this country lasts for six years and today the gross social product is about 14% lower than it was before the crisis. 104 thousand small entrepreneurs employ 420 thousand workers. There are many who have over 20 employees. Small businesses have done business on a positive or positive zero since 2009 but have therefore demoted their capital over the next 5 years. At the same time, they paid 100 billion net wages, 61 billion contributions, enormously in charge of the 80 billion circus, and only for interest paid 10 billion kuna during that period, i.e. for bank workers, contributions, etc. about 250 million kunas. With that trend, if we go in five, six years, small craftsmen will pay the interest they pay today for the interest of the state. I am for the law, but we also have to respect those realities because we're going to create even bigger problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94557	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94558	Dear colleague Cain, you have counted here that local self-government should employ 22 thousand people, persons with disabilities, but there are 6 and some thousands at the employment office, asking whether there will be enough people, persons with disabilities at the Employment Office, just this question that you have asked. We don't need to be too afraid of it, it would be good to start by following the law first, as I said, public companies and local self-government and state administration, of course, given the opportunities that local self-government has, and these are less and less. This when you talk about the number of employees, 1%, means big companies in Croatia employ 50% of employees in Croatia, these other 50% employment means small companies. Of course, the most difficulty will be in hiring people with disabilities in small companies and that small companies, those with 20 and more employees will be in big trouble especially in an environment that is not good for business in Croatia. I like the fact that this law, and it's probably going to be the ministry, and it's going to continue to follow how it's actually being fulfilled, how the law works in practice, and if something needs to be changed, it needs to be changed in walking.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94559	Honorable representative Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94560	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You asked your colleague Vuksic how many civil service employees there are, I would say that perhaps another big question is how many state and public spaces are available to people with disabilities and how much has been done in recent years in Croatia. Namely, the Alliance of Persons with Disabilities is very intensively working, maybe it's a small one, maybe it's a little bit of a failure or something that in this law does not have a particularly prominent role exactly the Alliance of Persons with Disabilities because I think they've done a lot of work on sensitizing the public and in general in cooperation with local self-government, but in all these years behind it has made a lot of good steps towards improving the living conditions of people with disabilities, but I reported on the replica when you asked whether local self-government had the means for this problem. I don't know that in view of the new conditions in which the budgets of local self-government are being adopted, and the fact is that budgets are nevertheless flexible and that you can definitely put priority in each budget on one side or on the other side and surely that people with disabilities should not be placed in a subordinate position but rather should, let me say, first step in co-financing by the state and do everything to get these centres organized and that local self-governments, especially now that they are being able as urban centres and connected with surrounding local self-governments to create a maximum effort to... centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94561	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94562	Dear colleague Hrg, we are, as we treat people with disabilities. So, with one out of a half of me committed minorities in the Republic of Croatia. This when you asked for state services, yes, it's not just an important number of people with disabilities working in the state services, it's very important, we haven't talked about this segment today, how much public spaces are available to people with disabilities. I can say that regardless of the situation in the city of Zagreb, the city of Zagreb has done a lot by itself to make as many institutions in the city of Zagreb and to make roads available to people with disabilities as possible. And as for local self-government, the care of people with disabilities is not allowed, you're right here, you're completely relocated to your back, and it probably won't, and it doesn't just seem to be local self-government that has less and less, so to speak, motor fuel.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94563	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and respected colleague Djurdjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94564	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Before I begin this debate, I would once again ask colleagues who want and who will debate and who will appear in replicas to respect the new terminology that has been adopted, especially adopted by people with disabilities, these are not disabled persons, but persons with disabilities, they are not someone with special needs, for example. about children with difficulties because the needs of people with disabilities are equal to all of us. They all have the same needs as we do. How they can solve their needs as hard as we do, today when there is, behold, a time of crisis, when unemployment is ahead of us today, and the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. I have already asked questions in the replica of the Honorable Mr. Minister how busy a person with disabilities in his ministry is, of course, this is my representative's question and I have already referred him to all the ministries, agencies and institutions and the answer that we need to sensitize or that we need laws for something, for me it is not quite acceptable. Because I personally know both women and men, I personally know businessmen who did not need this law, who, by their own vote, are sensitive to everyone, and especially to people around us who are much more difficult or difficult to move, who are difficult to speak, who may be weaker or not see, who may hear or hear less, and regardless of this law for years, they are already hiring them. Especially this collaboration with Slava Raskaj where they take to their firms the education of children with difficulties. Today, I would like to welcome them to this International Day of Persons with Disabilities because such businessmen need to be remembered, those who do not need a law that carries in themselves the humanitarianism. I'll just mention the name of one person I know, it's Anna, who's certainly ten years between her 60 employees there's always at least another 10 to 15 employees or children who are on teaching or persons with disabilities. Here and I am very sorry and regrettable that, I will repeat this, that the Government did not adopt amendments yesterday and showed in reality and its care, and also its sensitization to people with disabilities and did not respect any single amendment that applied particularly to the education of students, high school students, has not respected any of which would improve the education of persons with disabilities from transportation, from assistants in teaching, from the barriers they have to attend to their colleges. The proposed amendments to the Rainer Academy, not many of them, may have referred to some 4 million kunas that would have been taken down by the President of the State's Office. Mr. Josipović at least showed sensitivity at this time. In my opinion he should have told himself, Mr. Prime Minister, please remove these funds from my office and those funds to go for a better life for all young people with disabilities, all those women, people in the part where they can work. But Mr. Josipovic, and unfortunately, I have to say today, has not responded or been in this problem of continuing assistants.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94565	Dear MPs, this isn't a pre-election event.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94566	No, it's not just gonna tell you about the problems. ... I'm not a candidate at all. This is still our president of the Republic of Croatia, I'm sorry, he's not a candidate. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] He's the president of the Republic of Croatia with all the rights he needs. So I wanted to say that he has in his office and coordinator or counsellor for people with disabilities and that I expected that he would react first to this problem that he created with assistants in the teaching, but as we see it not, and the government ended up finding some sort of solution and I would not have the bodies to repeat it every year from the beginning. Not so much about the candidate, but so much about the president and the government. When you see all of this, we talk about how sensitive we are if you mention an institution that was supposed to and didn't. And what about the law immediately to say at the beginning, we will uphold the law of course, we will support everything that is good. We want to point out in our club that other than articles and items there is life, there is realisation, that this law must be implemented. In what way, how? In a way that today, looking at the complete situation of people with disabilities and all these problems, I think that the most important thing is forgotten, and we forget that at the heart of everything there is to be human. Because people with disabilities stress that, too. Often, and I'm going to quote the president of an association who says, "The whole time there's a person with a disability, I'm not a person with a disability, I am" I don't want to tell him my name and last name because I didn't ask him, but let's say his name is Djurjica Sumrak, I'm Đurjica Sumrak, I'm not a person with disabilities. We have different signed conventions, declarations, finally our Croatian Constitution that guarantees all persons to work, to live with dignity. What can surprise us as humans and as a man is that from somewhere around 520 thousand registered persons with disabilities that we have 18% of people with disabilities in Croatia and 95 thousand of them live in conditions of poverty, that only 22 thousand of these same persons exercise the right to a personal disability. By 31 December 2014, a total of 6789 persons with disabilities were registered in the Croatian Employment Service records, totalling 1.9% of unemployed persons registered in the office. The largest number of unemployed persons with disabilities was registered in the city of Zagreb 1354, then in Osijek-Baranja County 724, then in Zagreb 600 and Split-Dalmatia 525 of the total number of people with disabilities. The unemployed persons with disabilities are mostly high school education, and that's why I started my own debate the way I did, that's why. Education We swear the foundation of everything, which is more important to us in the budget. And those disabled must be strengthened. In what way? For bade we sensitize someone in one way or another if they are not strong and powerful persons with a disability conscious of their abilities and believe them, they are all aware of their options. And most of them, when they have the financial strength, will also be able to have the education allowed or allowed, the assistants in the follow-up, will be educated exactly the way they are aware of what they can do. People with disabilities are very real, they're more real than we are, much more real. They're happy with all the little things, they feel really happy, they have all the problems like the rest of us. During the period from January 1st to December 31st, a total of 1744 disabled persons were employed by the Croatian Employment Service, accounting for 0.9% of the total population, of which 1093 men were employed and 651 women with disabilities. As is the most unemployed person, so is the most employed person registered in the city of Zagreb, imagine these are 303 people. In Osijek-Baranja 151 persons and in Zagreb County 122 persons. How sad, how sad. And then I'm still sad when he calls me because the beginning of the debate is, I really want to show you who has some role in our society in this country by the president of the state, this government and all of us and the Parliament. Well, you're not gonna let us not point to that. We're not gonna let ourselves do this. Then how can we treat ourselves, write only beautiful songs, declarations? Here we will speak the most beautiful things and read the verses. So what are we gonna do? The thing is, we do and we do in good faith, we do for a man, and then everything will be fine. And this law is, these are the additions, the amendments to the law because the first ones we brought showed difficulties in general in employment. And again, I say, empower all employers in a way that you take off their taxes, so give them the investments, do everything you can to make sure that in this Croatia there is work for everyone, and then there will be work for people with disabilities. But be the first among these employers, be the first, be the first Croatian government, Office of Presidents, Croatian should be ministries, institutions, agencies in which they are employed, and most often by party qualifications, so let's bring it in. Let's show that we're the best and let's hire people with disabilities. I personally, where my job is, are employed by some people with disabilities and every honor and thank you to that employer I work with because he saw that he could, that he got valuable workers. And indeed, those of us who work with them do not feel absolutely any barrier, no obstacle, nor do we stay away from them, nor do they expect it. We don't open the door for them, nor do they expect it, but we've created conditions for them to open the door themselves without a problem. And I won't owe you any more, thank you very much, I hope that these changes will improve the status of persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94567	Thank you, too. The first violation of the Rules of Procedure was announced by the respected representative Blazekovic Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94568	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Article 232 was injured. The Rules of Procedure, but it was that my colleague, by my conviction, hurt the Rules of Procedure and used a pay phone for another topic, which is a pre-election campaign. But you acted on Article 238, so there's no need to, but later on, after I picked up the tile, you don't need any follow-up intervention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94569	Thank you very much. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. And we have a replica of the esteemed representative of Hrvoja Nekic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94570	I'm just going to tell my colleague that it's just sad that my colleague twilight uses this law and abuse to collect cheap political points here. And I think it would be much more useful if she had concentrated her debate on the debate of people with disabilities than on some petty political interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94571	A reply to the replica of Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94572	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, so I don't need to hold a pre-election rally here for you, there's no help in keeping you with any. But you see, everything that's said from the heart and when problems show up and when it comes to those who should solve problems, it's a pre-election set for you. Well, that's a shame. So what do you expect from these young people? So when they tell you the problem, you say don't give us pre-election meetings to run here and outside. No, that's the problem. And as for the law, I said that we at the club would support this law, we will, but I also pointed to problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94573	A new replica, respected representative Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94574	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, here I would still express my opinion and in that sense I will support you, perhaps in my replica of certain things and remind you. In fact, I realized that you are, as always when we speak and support some law, we say that the laws are good and we think that this is a good law, but somehow every good law falls on the implementation and I think that was the goal of this debate, all of us, being that we are acting both in the executive and legislative power, so let it be the President of the Republic or any of us, that we are really the first to advance in respect of the law and where it is difficult to implement some law in reality to be an example. The minister also said they have three employees in their ministry. I personally have no doubt that this number will not increase because providing a job for a disabled person is not that simple. Yes, we in this law usually have certain privileges or priorities. This law also potentials priority in the employment of persons with disabilities, but it is very easy to be with all those other priorities and in some way persons with disabilities at the bottom of those priorities. I'll just say briefly and give the comparison, I don't want any cheap political points, but I want to potential the arrival of a person with disabilities to work can be quite impossible, like the arrival of children with developmental difficulties at their school, and we know that education by the statute is an obligation of society to ensure each member.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94575	Replica's response, esteemed representative, Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94576	Thank you, colleague Murganic. Yeah, well, you said that education is really the most important and the problem is the education of people with disabilities is the one that should be placed at the heart. Unfortunately, we have the least highly educated persons with disabilities, very little high school, so high school education they have. Unfortunately, even underprofessional, it means three-year-old craft education is missing. It's been a couple of years, 10 years, and it's been fixed. It is fortunate that in 2008 we received the Office of Advocates for Persons with Disabilities and then also according to these reports of the Attorney General very often can be determined what is most important, what bothers these persons and how the Ombudsman is indeed the person who gives and the solution in which all of this can be solved. Likewise, I personally know highly educated people with disabilities and artists and writers, but all this is very little visible in society. They don't pay that much attention, except unfortunately for this one day. There was a concert yesterday, and there's a little talk about it today, and then it's all going into its own rut.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94577	Honorable representative Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94578	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues of the twilight, I know that you are well aware of this problem and that you can really talk about it qualifiedly. Every man, every person who has a higher position and greater opportunities, is a stronger influence in society, can contribute. But today is the International Day of Persons with Disabilities and it's really a wonderful thing to discuss today the amendment of the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. I ask the question how sensitized are we? Look at the assembly room. We knew today would be the first item of the agenda. What kind of sign did we send, what signal? Not a third of the MPs today are here to show respect and sensitivity to people with disabilities. That's so sad. But me, I volunteered for a replica for another reason. As this debate goes on, and there is little obvious interest in it, and we show little of our attitude towards people with disabilities, I am really becoming increasingly concerned with the question of whether we have foreseen enough in the law and positioned the community of associations of persons with disabilities. Whether the institution that has already made the most in the extreme case of sensitivity of the public has taken major steps and shifts with local self-government, whether it may be necessary, according to your experience, to position and define their impact on the future and future development of sensitivity towards people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94579	Replica's response, esteemed representative, Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94580	Thank you very much. Yes, what I may be in the debate, but I expected to have a chance and answer is that, I said that we got the D.A., so the D.A.'s office for people with disabilities, and then we have a lot of associations and I have to say the Alliance of Associations for Persons with Disabilities, that they're in local self-government units, but I also have to say at the state level unusually important. They're important because through these associations, people with disabilities get the first knowledge. You know, in life, a man doesn't know when something can happen to him. We're standing here today, talking, and tomorrow I might need to get in a wheelchair. And then what am I gonna do? Who can I talk to first? Well, first I'll go to the association, and I'll go to the association. First, I'll probably get directions from that association in a way. I'll come across a thousand barriers, administrative how to pay, how to pay. And I'm a person, so I'm a working person and I work, so I get into a situation and what about those who have never worked, who since birth, dear God has given them a mission to be a person and to be children with disabilities or persons with disabilities. Who should warn them? And yes, it is very important that, in society and in the local community, alliances are also positioned, as well as all associations dealing with the problems of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94581	Thank you very much. For the sake of the Croatian public, it is not an accurate assessment that we are not interested, sensitive to this problem. Because 8 clubs, 4 MPs have been reported, and so far we only have 15 replicas and 15 replies to the replica. It is in statistics a very high interest of the Croatian Parliament for the problem we are discussing. I pray on behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Ana Comparić-Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94582	I thank Mr. President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Since the first day I've been speaking on behalf of the club, I've said clearly and loudly that it's not a subject I want to politicise on and I'm staying on it and I'm terribly sorry that today's topic is so uglyly politicized. I would also like to stress that in this budget that we brought yesterday, the rights of persons with disabilities have not been changed. However, the prosecutor's budget for disabled persons has increased. So, it can't, it doesn't stand everything that's been said so far. And I want to start my debate with another sentence that you inspired me to, which is that they, or persons with disabilities, don't need our empathy, but they need our action. And I think this law is our action. And back to the law itself. So, the aim of this law is to bring people with disabilities back to the labour market, and those who read the Ombudsman's report for people with disabilities remember a very important sentence that reads about like this. Exiting persons with disabilities on the labour market as well as their employment is a prerequisite for leaving the isolation of people with disabilities. So people with disabilities will feel good, feel useful, both for their family and for society as a whole. And that is why it is extremely important for us to bring these amendments and amendments to the law today, because the law is in force for a little less than a year and some shortcomings have been observed. I want to stress in fact the three most important things dealing with these amendments and supplementing the law. So we have an extension of the quota employment obligation from 1.1.2015 to the real sector. So, he's only been to the public sector so far. Now commitments are spreading to the real sector. Penalties shall be laid down for those employers who do not meet their quota rate, this quota employment as an obligation under this law and shall also be determined and regulated exactly how and how the centres for professional rehabilitation are established at the level of units of local or regional self-government, i.e. five regional centres. So what is certainly to praise is the fact that now the obligation of quota employment will also have a real sector. It's a positive discrimination behind which the SDP club absolutely stands. It is seen, therefore, that when the ministry wrote such a law had in mind the gravity of the situation in which we are in because it allowed quota employment not to be met exclusively by the employment of persons with disabilities, so that the obligation was fulfilled in a way that students were taken into practice, that students were taken, that we also have the possibility of professionally training persons with disabilities until their first employment. It is also possible for people with self-employed disabilities, i.e. the employer to enter into contracts with persons with self-employed disabilities. We also support this section relating to penalties, we call them fines of 30% of the minimum wage amount, which is why the minister said in the introduction it would amount to about 900 kuna per person with disabilities which the employer did not hire and was obliged to do. But I also want to point out one more fact, which is that we must not forget that there are incentives paid by the Bureau for every person, for that employer, for every person with the disability he employs. So here, for example, I just want to point out, that employers in the period from January 1st to October 31st 2014, so a total of 411 employers hired 1180 people with disabilities. A total of 21 million and 400 thousand incentives were paid to such employers for the employment of people with disabilities. So we're not just talking about punishment, we're talking about incentives that this employer has if he hires a disabled person. As regards the very advantages of employment, we also support this part because we know that there have been major problems in practice with the application of this provision. And this is how this law solves it, so we consider it much better and better quality. As far as the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation is concerned, so what this law now provides, and apparently came to the instigation of units of local self-government is that not only there are different combinations, so the founder of the Centre can be the Republic of Croatia, the local or regional self-government unit, can only be a unit of local, only a unit of regional and in different combinations can be established. Which is why we think it's just as good. So even though we have to warn a little bit about usually such things nicely, they go well by local self-government units and then some problems happen, and then we have a problem with the functioning of such centres that are therefore extremely important to people with disabilities. So, finally, I would like to stress that the SDP club will support the amendments and additions to this law. And once again, like every time we talk about people with disabilities, I want to appeal to all of us that people with disabilities do not look exclusively and only as persons who belong to the welfare system but look as persons who have the same rights, the same needs and the same obligations as all of us together. Let us put ourselves in their position when we pass such laws and consider what we would like to be done for us by law, law, and all that we therefore need if we were to find ourselves in their position. And on that basis, let us decide when we make any law regarding persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94583	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94584	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, at first let me say that I really agree with these last sentences and I support them. However, I have come to you regarding your beginning. And again, fellow Members, I don't know why such a panic, which is why calling on politics if it's about things that should be important, right? This is the law and we will support it, these are the amendments to the law, the Honorable Mr. Minister he explained them perfectly. I really didn't need to repeat everything Mr. Minister said again in the debate. I had a need to point out the problem. And what I was about to say again now, so you figure it out however you want, isn't it from the Ministry of Education that you should give about motivation and financial stimulation to people of a lower level, older persons and persons of a third age and persons with disabilities of an older age for education? Isn't that a good idea? Yes, academic Rainer, and only 500 thousand kuna would be removed from the President's Office's budget. Although to Mr. Jakovina, who spent 3.5 million kuna on outside associates and on various trips for which a year later travel orders, imagine that is 3.5 million kuna. There's only 500 grand here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94585	Comrade twilight, so my colleague didn't talk about Jakovina or her travels.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94586	No, she was talking about politics. And I want to say how you can help people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94587	Replication response, Ana Comparić Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94588	I don't know what to say because I didn't say one word to my colleague. I can only repeat so that... No, no okay okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But I did not mention this second part of the list and Mr. Jacobin in any word because neither was the law concerning Mr. Jacobine, or the ministry of Mr. Jacobine. I can only repeat that in the budget of the Republic of Croatia that we brought yesterday are not touched by the rights of persons with disabilities. However, the prosecutor's budget for disabled persons has increased. And so you can't tell us that we're not socially sensitive and you can't tell us, because this law is also an example of taking care of the most vulnerable groups in this society.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94589	Hope Murganic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94590	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's my colleague, I'm going to replicate your introduction, not because I'm giving you lessons because it's not my intention, it's just so that we kind of respect the style and choice of words if it's not some kind of drastic insult that every one of us here might be using. We are politicians, so here we are still discussing in one political way one law in which I think we all agreed it was a good law. It's even from the club and it's pointed out precisely because we don't want to leave any doubt that anyone in any way is holding back any progress in accessing persons with disabilities in terms of employment and their involvement in the world of work. But no matter what you react now, I will point out that every law, and this law, I believe in from experience, we have enough experience, can and will fall if we, just us politicians, will not do it in words but in part show and insist, clearly where power is and where power is and where it is now in this case in the ministries, in the government in that employment. Then will one of you consider it a cheap political problem or a cheap political point, so let each of us go to our choice of words and rhetoric, but we have the right to express skepticism and suspicion because we want this law to have its own application in reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94591	Ana Comparić Devčić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94592	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So I agree with you colleagues, each of us has its own way, style, rhetoric, manner of expression, etc. I said in my introduction, and I'm going to do it again, from the first moment I spoke in this high house about people with disabilities, I said I wouldn't politicize the subject. And I'm still standing there and I won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94593	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94594	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Anna, today's debate is certainly good because of a law that we hope will help sensitize and employ people with disabilities. But what does the D.A.'s office say today for people with disabilities? On the occasion of today, she says that poverty, indifference have been increasingly pressured by people with disabilities and a growing number of complaints relating to the difficult material condition and conditions and lack of funds to settle the basic cost of life of people with disabilities are being recorded year by year. This is what the Ombudsman said on the occasion of today’s day for people with disabilities, since there are a number of objections, complaints, requests coming to her address, so I believe that this law will help eliminate this poverty and help hire at least a few people with disabilities to find their safety and better life. I agree that there are always those who avoid legal norms, I hope that inspection services will work harder and better on the ground and punish those who have not fulfilled these legal concepts and thus secure through criminal measures and raise funds to help just those who need it most.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94595	Ana Comparić Devčić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94596	Thank you. Well, colleague Djakic, I agree with you. And when I speak on behalf of the club about the attorney general's report for people with disabilities in general, I say somewhere that the situation is economical in the Republic of Croatia and that people with disabilities are still even more difficult. And that's a fact, and no one can say it isn't, and we can't close our eyes. One of these laws is, therefore, exactly what you said was an attempt to allow them to go to the labour market and make money, and to come out of that economic dependence on another person. And that's why we support him. And you well touched this issue of punishment because in my debate I forgot to say, it is extremely important that those penalties, the money collected from the fines, will be spent in the professional rehabilitation of persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94597	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94598	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you said there were incentives for employment, and you also finally said that everything goes well sometimes and eventually goes in another direction. And that's right. Namely, it's tied to each other. So you happen to start some employment program for people with disabilities based on some incentive measures, and then at one point you happen to disappear these incentive measures and find yourself in trouble, something that's very nice and well headed in the wrong direction. But here's what Mr. Minister said in the introduction that this law on employment is probably going to solve this thing, so we'll be happy if that happens. But we have problems very much because there is no systematic solution to this problem of encouraging the employment of people with disabilities. So you see how much trouble there is with the assistants in the class right now, how the walking problems arise, how the local self-government is practically the only one that can jump in at that point and help. And that's the part where I actually came to you for the replica, in this part where it goes well and something goes wrong. And here in this law local self-government is placed in a very important place. Therefore, it is not good to pass laws that take the original income of local self - administration that they use to do this sort of thing. Well, I hope that in some future times when they might try to hit the local self-government again, that your club will look a little differently and that they won't let the local self-government take a huge amount of money.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94599	Ana Comparić Devčić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94600	Dear colleague, when I was talking about incentives, then I was talking about incentives for entrepreneurs and I'm going to do it again. So in the first 10 months of this year, 21.4 million kunas have been paid to encourage entrepreneurs to hire people with disabilities and which is certainly commendable. Every one of us has to say it. And when I was saying, that's two separate things, and when I was talking about setting up a professional rehabilitation centre at regional levels, I was just saying that the units of local self-government, because these changes are also going based on observations from the ground, so the units of local self-government that go with the best intention of setting up some centers like this and then after 2, 3, 5 years there are problems. And that's why I praised this part so it could be combined with the Republic of Croatia, with the county. So all the variations are open. No one imposed on local self-government units that they had to set up one of these kind of malls, which of course cost money.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94601	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, colleague Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94602	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. It is good to talk today on International Day of Persons with Disabilities about the Proposal of the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, which was adopted a year ago. True, we would prefer that these amendments that have been introduced and which will be introduced into this law were already covered by the attitudes of Croatian Labourists, which is the question that there should be as few amendments to the law as possible, rather than... the text of the law, that it contains as many facts and arguments as possible regarding the application of the law in its quality and legal security, because the full application of this law only starts from 01.01 next year. What is stated in the law itself and what is not disputed is that these changes when it comes to quota employment will improve the situation and make it easier to get to the job of people with disabilities, but on the other hand, we need to draw attention to what is very important in order to be able to hire people with disabilities at all, because in a country where the number of employees is constantly falling, then it is clear that in this situation and people with disabilities will find it harder to get to work and it will be harder to work. In this figure of 313 thousand unemployed there is also a number of 6800 people with disabilities who would certainly be fine as soon as possible to get to work even though in practice I witnessed it a few weeks ago where I talked to a young person who ended up right with disability, who applied in countless places to get to work, but here, although it should be a priority, it is very difficult to achieve this right to work. Clearly, this law will support that in some way employers are motivated to employ persons with disabilities, but I am afraid in the final sense that what some previous employers were saying would rather reach out to that mechanism to pay certain financial obligations that would arise from this law than to hire people with disabilities. But, well, and that part of the financial means if they are used in quality use, it will be used through protective workshops, through certain companies that can be better trained, employ disabled people, but also in that part I have to say for example souvenirs... is a company that mainly employs persons with disabilities, barely survives and is looking for certain modes so that they can even survive on the market and in some way survive on the market, which means that such companies should also allow them not to be in, not to say in some part of the competition, but to have a significant privilege in society and to survive and to practically employ those persons as much as possible, if they are not already working through this part of the legal obligations. When it comes to people with disabilities, it is clear that there is a nervousness in that part and talk about a part of the accessibility of persons with disabilities of certain institutions, and I have to show the same discontent because in talking to these people and I have come to know, I have personally passed through that space many times, but we people who do not have certain difficulties do not see these barriers that meet this person. Like what? in the County and Municipal Court in Bjelovar, there is no access to the disabled, they cannot come to the grantovnica, they cannot get to the court in any way, and what with certain small investments this approach could certainly enable those persons, and I think it should be a concern for all of us to make life easier for them, and especially for this part to get to work and work because I agree with what the minister said, these are people who are very valuable, who are loyal to the job and they are doing their utmost to justify their part when and when they work, and also in those data when we say that they use less and get out of work, sick and all the other things used by certain other workers. I have to point out one other question here, and it's... it's clear when we talk about people with disabilities, then we have different kinds of arrivals... from those innate problems and disadvantages to when they get hurt and become persons with reduced opportunities, and that's a question and self-preservation at the workplace that we have in our companies should certainly pay attention to whether part of the data they're telling us, which is that somewhere around 230 thousand people have who are in a disability pension, which is a significant number based on movements in some other countries and clearly we need to enable them, and through this law may also be able to make these people a normal pension, and not to be under some different status, when they can't even get to work, then there's nothing left for them but to use other opportunities. I must stress here when looking at the EU then the question of hiring persons with disabilities Croatia somewhere at the very bottom, beneath us is only Romania and Bulgaria while in some ways they should be a role model of Sweden, Denmark and Austria when it comes to hiring people with disabilities. Clearly, Croatian Labourists will support this law if it is in the context of better employment as possible, but we must also stress that in Croatia there are about 520 thousand people with disabilities somewhere around 12% of the total population. And on this International Day of Persons with Disabilities, I think we should send a single appeal from this place, and it concerns 100% of the disabled Homeland War, which is here for a month and a half, to appeal from here to return to their families, to save their already broken health and to go to their warm homes, and all of their problems that they have to solve through the legal institutions of this country, which they have fought for, for which they have also given part of their bodies and put into the foundations of this country, and that is the issue primarily when we speak through the Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Labour and the Pension System, and clearly the Ministry of Social Policy, these institutions are clear that all their proposals can come directly here to the Assembly if it is a question of repairing certain legal solutions. Do we have to say in that part that if we need to reduce certain rights then we need to reduce everyone, but they should be the last one on that list if we're talking about reducing individual rights. And that's why my appeal goes inside that even their agony for a month and a half ends and they return to their families. And I believe that when it comes to the rest of the problem of persons with disabilities that this law will be just one good time, but first we have to do a lot of preconditions, and that is a question of economic recovery for which we will need a lot more, and that is the possibility of greater employment and through greater employment clearly that better and better quality employment of persons with disabilities will be possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94603	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94604	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I agree with you fellow Tušak that it would have been much better if these changes had been incorporated immediately into the law for several reasons, of course. And one is that as soon as possible, it is possible to achieve certain results. So persons with disabilities other than those who have certain opportunities and potentials. These potentials would be activated, but we know that this isn't going so fast, that it takes a certain time to prepare, and every loss of time certainly makes it difficult to qualify for one such job. So that's one part that's very important. The second thing that is important is to try to help them in an existential sense because we know that because of these increases in electricity prices, gas, surely the existential conditions are greatly worsened and that part would certainly help. But what is crucial is what you have pointed out and what the Ombudsman emphasizes for people with disabilities, that constant care is needed sensitivity, it is very clear and in the last report it is necessary to be sensitized for the needs of people with disabilities, that they do not come every little bit and protest here. When I warned about children with developmental difficulties and other problems and orthopaedic aids above all else, it was strange. And what's going on? Now here comes the question in these rural areas and the geronto housewives, and who has to be there for those people who are in these environments then who has to show up? There must be units of local self-government, and we see how much the funds are cut. So these are things that need to be highlighted both at any time and in a moment to be sensitized for the needs of people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94605	Answer to the replica Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94606	Thank you. My colleague Milinkovic agrees fully with you, society must help in all segments, work and make it possible for people with disabilities to get through as easily as possible to be in office as possible, those who can work because they are the happiest if they can make their contribution, and clearly that if they are working then they are not on the burden of this society, and clearly to all those who cannot be able to society should start in all segments from all institutions of the ministry, cities, municipalities and counties and all of these institutions to make it easier for them to live as much as possible, to make them happier and all of their shortcomings and problems that they have, to solve them more easily in society. Clearly, society needs to be richer and more financial opportunities, but we must never put them to the end, they must be the first to be in any kind of society and with all the possible problems that we face to be taken as a priority in solving all the problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94607	Josip Djakic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94608	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Tušak is commendable to you, the appeal for the disabled to return to their homes and families, and he is certainly welcome at these moments when it has been too long since the protests he started. The attempts of certain steps have been made but the political will is the one that will decide whether or not it will. We propose that the next committee, which will be held on Friday at 10 p.m., bring concrete solutions that will be in the framework of the Amendments and the addition of the Law on the Rights of Defence, the postponement of the Peace Law and the common constitutional category of rights of Croatian military people and defenders in order to end this long-term protest of Croatian defenders, the most difficult disabled 100%, as well as other disabled and defenders who, due to their dissatisfaction, seek out clearly what they belong to. It belongs to them that the category is constitutionally protected and that there is no more politicisation or political manners, bickering or any doubt about their true merits.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94609	Gold shower response on replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94610	Thank you. Well, I wanted first of all to warn you about the situation precisely because of the great cold, bad weather is coming and it is clear that these people are very fragile when it comes to the health issue and don't let God have any major tragedy but ultimately all the problems that they face finally have to be solved through the institutions of this country. And that's why my appeal was for them to go to their warmer homes and all the problems they face that those through institutions should not remain immune to certain problems. And best use certain arguments to solve these problems. That's why my appeal is inside because of them and protecting them and their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94611	On behalf of HNS representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94612	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam Minister. I fully support Mr. Tušak. In the beginning, let me refer to the report of the Croatian Institute of Public Health in February 2014 where in the report people with disabilities announced that in Croatia there were 510 000 274 people with disabilities, i.e. 12% of the population. And of that is 60 thousand 276 defenders, which is the same thing somewhere near 12% of the total population of people with disabilities. I am pleased that we have all joined together today as conjugally as I have managed to see with a certain, real, real and real, honest dose of piety, and that we agree that this law is necessary and that this law can indeed improve the living conditions of people with disabilities. We clearly in the Croatian People's Party-Liberal Democrats, among other things we look at this law and with purely humane, except for the human side and from the position of specific, human rights. And right at the beginning, let me say that the Croatian People's Party-Liberani Democrats will accept this bill. At the very beginning, I have to express my view and conviction, which is that the relationship between society and people with disabilities must be a priority. We have spoken from this pay phone many times, and we will talk again and again and again, and we are first in line for people with disabilities and then all of us remain in all our thinking and actions. And when we plan to build houses, roads, station, when we work and build kindergartens, schools, colleges, institutions in culture, sports facilities, when we do parks, entertainment parks, swimming pools, bathrooms, health care, social protection, law making, when planning budgets in the local community and at the state level always and constantly the first person with disabilities and then all the rest of us. And it is always necessary to break down barriers both physically and in the heads related to the position of persons with disabilities in society. The only people with disabilities are more equal than the rest of us. As it states in its assessment of the situation and the basic issues set out in the proposed law, it foresees effective integration of persons with disabilities and other sensitive groups on the labour market. I'm going to do some things now maybe, I'd like to say some things because maybe someone's looking at people with disabilities but also interested in the public, so I'd read some things that I think would be good for them to hear because it often happens that people who can use certain rights simply aren't sufficiently informed about these rights in the right way and consume them. This law provides for effective integration of persons with disabilities and other sensitive groups on the labour market, requires cross-cutting and cross-sectorally coordinated access to all segments of society, starting with a system of health, social care, a pension system through the harmonisation of education policies with the needs of the labour market, with extremely important family support, an association of persons with disabilities and associations who care for persons with disabilities and the active participation of persons with disabilities themselves. The aim of this law is to increase the employability of persons with disabilities and to create conditions for their equal participation in the labour market by removing obstacles and creating equal opportunities for work and employment, by regulating the right to professional rehabilitation, and by defining incentives for their employment. The knowledge and competences gained by people with disabilities in the education system often do not correspond to the needs of the labour market. It is therefore justified to place a market on education, retraining and the development of key and transferable competences, in particular when it comes to unemployed persons with disabilities. Professional rehabilitation is a set of activities carried out to train people with disabilities to preserve and their remaining working and general abilities. It should be noted that 60% of people with disabilities have not completed primary school or only completed primary school, 27% have medium professional training, 3% have higher or higher professional training, and 5% of people with disabilities have completed special education. The experience of the Member States of the European Union to encourage the employment of persons with disabilities has shown particularly important the introduction of an adequate quota employment system for all employers, the development of quality and new forms of professional rehabilitation, as well as the strengthening of national policies and the legislative framework for the development of social entrepreneurship, which has great potential in the employment of sensitive groups. The relevant law extends the obligation of quota employment of persons with disabilities and to the real sector, thus all employers who employ at least 20 workers will be obliged to employ a number of persons with disabilities as from 1 January 2015, depending on the total number of employees and activities they carry out. The above obligation excludes foreign diplomatic and consular representations and integrated and protective workshops. These amendments and additions to the Law are proposed to exempt from the obligation of quota employment and representation... since they do not have legal personality status and are an integral part of a foreign person, founder, established in non-member countries of the European Union, or European Economic Area, and workers have a contract to work with a legal person abroad. The obligation of quota employment of persons with disabilities can also be fulfilled by employers in a substitute manner, i.e. by receiving for the practice of students with developmental disabilities, students with disabilities or rehabilitators, then by hiring students with disabilities based on a contract on the work of a regular student, by receiving persons with disabilities to vocational training for work without the establishment of a working relationship, the scholarship of regular education of persons with disabilities or the conclusion of a business cooperation agreement with a self-employed person. Employers who do not meet the quota or employment or in a replacement way will be obliged to pay a 30 % minimum wage for each person with disabilities who have been employed, which will be used for the purpose of developing a system of professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. In order to ensure the application of the payment system... of the cash compensation according to the Ministry of Finance's instructions to these amendments and the additions to the laws, it is proposed that the Office for Skills, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities delivers a solution to the obligation to pay the fines for taxpayers who undertake the fines have not been established or met in the manner and within the time limits prescribed by the applicable law. In this regard, it was necessary to extend the work of the Institute and to explicitly prescribe the authority to adopt the said solution. It is also agreed in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance that the payment obligation of the cash compensation will be made in a form through which the employer will submit a report on the amount of the cash compensation. The relevant law obliges the Republic of Croatia and the units of local and regional self-government to establish a centre, as has already been said, for a professional rehabilitation which, systematically and in accordance with labour market needs, will train people with disabilities for work and provide professional support for employers in the employment of persons with disabilities. In addition, again to inform the public, we from the CNS would like to point out and warn of Article 4(4). The law on professional rehabilitation. The general programmes include the following measures and activities: participation in the identification of remaining working and general skills, professional information, consultation and evaluation of professional opportunities, labour market analysis, employment opportunities and inclusion, assessment of the possibilities for implementation, development and improvement of the professional training programme, training, training, retraining, retraining and programmes for the maintenance and improvement of work and work-social skills and skills in the period up to employment, information and counselling on assistive technology, learning and work, individual and joint programmes for the promotion of work-social inclusion in the community, advisory proposals on the application of different technologies, techniques and learning on the assessment of possible applications, professional learning, planning and application of selected technology, development, motivation and training of persons with disabilities on the use of selected technologies, support and information, support and support. In addition to what I have stated, note that the implementation of this article in... 4. defines the status, establishment and mode of work of the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation in Articles 18, 19, 20, 21, integrated workshops, i.e. protection workshops. Article 40 provides for the supervision of the application of the law for which the ministry is in charge of work and the inspection of the work is carried out. This is the information or articles of the law we wanted to share with the public, with the interested public. These are certainly numerous associations that are particularly good quality in the Republic of Croatia for people with disabilities, and there they should certainly be given special recognition and praise. The Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities should be and we believe that it is one of the tools to reduce the possible injustice of our citizens with disabilities in the shortest time possible. This law can bring us closer to a more just society. It certainly needs to help people with disabilities to learn about curative jobs, to make quality work, to raise their standard of living, to raise their social reputation, to experience themselves better quality and better, and for the rest of us it can intimately serve to feel something better. And as I said at the beginning, the Croatian People's Party Club of Liberal Democrats will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94613	On behalf of the club of independent representatives, colleagues Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94614	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The club of independent representatives with all the fences we have already said or we will say will support the adoption of a proposal for this law on intensive care for disabled people. However, I would point out that hypersensitivity to this subject can be a front for nothing to change in particular, and that would not be good. In fact, I'm convinced there's a good distinction to be made, and that's what we know about social welfare. We have given ourselves on the social side, because this requires the opportunities we live in, and we have forgotten that it is necessary to build a social state that is obliged to give all its citizens the right to a decent income with which they can support themselves and their family. In this regard, developing a social community where men’s cuisine and other kinds of help to the needed praise is a valuable work and it is in line with one Christian principle that you have done to one of the smallest me you have done. Christendom is either an act or an act of inaction, not in words, not in ritual, not in tradition, but in acts of love for one another. Yesterday I heard in a news report on Croatian TV a yumber end or no heaven, and then there was a conversation with residents of these settlements who are mostly older, who have only one connection by bus in the morning at 6 o'clock, and they should travel for 2 hours until they reach the bus station that will board them and can only return home after noon. The local priest also participated in the conversation and said two things that I remembered well. Žumberak is extinct, Žumberak no longer lives on agriculture and livestock, everything has fled to the city and he calls it urban racism, where the village is actually destroyed, and in the city is reportedly well lived. It is necessary to develop social sensitivity, not to say new justice, but social sensitivity should also be developed by the social state. So what I said in the replica, I'm going to repeat now, this tendency to go towards hiring people with disabilities I'm asking a question and what about people who are over 300 thousand who are able to work and in Croatia are doing. It's the welfare care of the state, and we'd have to engage more actively here. Thank you very much for listening. Damir Cain will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94615	Dear Vice-President, Mr. Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Yes, Don Grubisic is absolutely right. When we all move or when everyone moves to Zagreb, Croatia will disappear. That's what he seemed to be singing to me or saying to the great Matosh. I don't doubt the good, I don't doubt the honest intentions of the promoter. In fact, I absolutely believe in altruism, people who run the ministry. But I don't know how many people in the ministry know the economic picture of Croatia. It's not a problem, that the problem is that and the extra burden, let's say, is to transfer it to the public sector. So state administration, communal services, county, cities. Of course, this is a problem, although it should probably be sent under quotes to every third employee's higher number, and more than the fact that from the crisis to today, around 7,000 people have been employed in these institutions. We're from the crisis here, so from 2009 to today we've hired 22,000 people in the upgrade. I said local self-government employs about 7,000 people. That number, which we talked about all the time during this last week or last week, rose from 35,000 to 42,000 people. For this today, about three billion kunas should be provided additionally. Or more 3 billion kunas than in 2009. In 2009, 37,000 employees needed to be provided somewhere, an apology of 35,000 people, needed to be secured somewhere around 37 billion kuna. Today they need to be provided, or for all of us to understand each other, to be honest, about 40 billion kunas. On the other hand, the number of real sector employees in the same period from 2009 to today has been reduced by 120,000 people, and the mass of wages from some 68,70 billion has dropped to some 62 billion. I know it's minus 8 billion. Now, the fundamental question is, can the real sector withstand this burden? Yes or no? On page 2 of this law, it is literally said that the applicable law extends the obligation of quota employment of persons with disabilities and to the real sector, so from 1 January 2015 all employers who employ at least 20 workers will be obliged to employ a certain number of persons with disabilities depending on the total number of employees and activities they carry out. The above obligation excludes the diplomatic consular offices, etc., etc. And then it is stated that the obligation of quota employment of persons with disabilities can be fulfilled by employers in a replacement way, i.e. by receiving students with difficulty in developing, students with disabilities or rehabilitating, then by hiring students with disabilities based on a contract on the work of a regular student, by receiving persons with disabilities to vocational training for work without establishing a working relationship, by scholarship of regular education, etc., etc. Today, in one of our newspapers, I read the title, and here I will quote it: "Every 5th company in Croatia will be firing workers next year.", ready to put it that way, and about some parameters a little later. The government's best measure in the last 3 years is how I've been experiencing it, let's say, amending the VAT law and paying the same at the expense of not more than a invoice. It means companies up to 3 million kuna. Many of these companies up to 3 million kuna have more than 20 employees. In Croatia, a total of 830 thousand and 928 people were employed in companies, half of which were 414 thousand and 507 in small companies. In companies with an income of up to 3 million kuna, 161 thousand and 915 persons were employed, which is a fifth and 19.5%, respectively, of the total employees of Croatian companies. And almost a third more precisely 29.7% of employees in companies with total income up to 3 million kuna is in Zagreb, followed by normal companies about 20% on the northern Adriatic, that is Istria, it is a normal Primorje-Gorski County. I'm going to say one more time what I said this morning that we have to raise anyone who opens and who provides jobs. And I said this morning that the recession in this country has been going on for six years and that today GDP is about 14% lower before the crisis. We have, when we talk about these small entrepreneurs, about 104 thousand of these entrepreneurs who employ about 420 thousand workers. And mostly here I want to absorb a small business that was on business zero in 2009 but that's why in the next five, six years, they literally devastated their capital. Here, among other things, in this legislative proposal, I understand all of this, these are good intentions, it is said that employers who do not meet the quota nor do they work in a substitute way and ensure normal employment of those persons or pay, will be obliged to pay a minimum wage of 30% of the minimum wage for each person with disabilities they were obliged to employ. It is then said that the current law obliges the Republic of Croatia, a unit of local and regional (regional) self-government to establish a Centre for Professional Rehabilitation, which will systematically and in line with labour market needs, train people with disabilities for work and provide professional support to employers. During the application of the law in the section relating to the right of advantage in the employment of disabled persons, the problem of lack of definition of evidence of disability is therefore also foreseen. What is important, however, is whether and who calculated how much public employment should be based on, how much these people should hire the real sector. I just heard from one representative that in Croatia we have 6000 people with disabilities. Clearly, they are either with the defenders, the children of the defenders now come to that category, or disabled defenders, who should have certain advantages. I ask myself whether these in the public sector and the burden will be transferred to citizens as they claim that due to the correction of the Income Act they must collect kindergartens and I do not know which other institutions. Although on the other hand, we know that a million and 200 thousand people in the Republic of Croatia could make a slightly higher salary, and thus some larger pensions. So can anyone figure out how many people on that basis should be employed? In Istria when we talk about Istria, in local self-government plus communal services, it means what the mayors, the mayors, the mayor works around 4,000 people. In state services, it means the salaries paid from this central register or as it's already called, it's doing 8,000 people plus 1 400 in the police. That's what I'm saying without these big ACI systems, railways, etc. So 200 to 300 people should be employed in Istria. In Croatia, up to 7,000. We used to be, for example. In Istria they had a great company TCP, the state sent people training them to a real sector, and today I have the impression that they're dominantly going to be employed in the public sector. I'm also in favour of something else, let's say one of the disabled is represented in that minority quota for the election of MPs. We had MPs that we choose with, say, 300. 400 or 500 votes, so why don't we be disabled here? I repeat, everything here is fine, but what Don Grubisic said and we in the Republic of Croatia have about 313 thousand people who are being treated as unemployed and so I think it's better maybe... The parafiscal measure, let everyone pay for it, and let the state take care of it and hire it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not going to tell this company in Istria how they do business, and it's big companies, but I know when they heard about this law, how they spoke to me. All in all, the law is brave, it certainly expresses the proposing's honest intentions but the question of whether it is in these circumstances in the Republic of Croatia and implement it. We'll raise our hand for it, but we don't know what the next day will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94616	Stjepan Milinkovic, a replica of the exhibition of Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94617	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Grubisic, you mentioned the Žumberak End, I did not watch that show, but I can relate to what it looks like and indeed such images cause compassion and in some way sadness. Believe the Žumberak region is also special because of its geographical features but there are other parts of our beautiful situation where people are traffic-insulated, difficult to get to the destination where they would like, traffic connections are the way they are in this sense, so it is a question of availability and health care. If we add that the mail has been abolished in almost all the smaller areas, it certainly speaks for itself. And you remember last or a few years ago how many times it's been on our TV were those geronto housewives who visited these people, visited those people we admired, congratulated, and truly treated with respect. Now, the Ministry of Social Welfare says that now these housewives will be determined according to the property censorship. And it's said nothing touched. Is it? I responsibly claim that all these people living in such environments that their property censorship is below because I know the area, and that they have enough money, that they have the means, that they have the American pension if they don't have anyone else, so that's an additional problem for themselves. And in that part, it is certain that such things should not be restricted or auctioned. And when that comes, local self-government comes. Thank God where there are municipalities that can and in my midst we of course have reached out to ensure these people, and those where they do not have so safely, and in these circumstances, when the funds are still reduced by these various basics, it will certainly be difficult for the local self-government unit to patch up those holes that are emerging. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94618	Ivan Grubisic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94619	I thank you for reporting and for the supplementation and for what I said. I'm sure there's a lot of these parts, but it was interesting in the sign "Jumberland," so there was no heaven. So if we invest and have sensitivity to these areas, we can make these areas a paradise and not just an end to a geographical concept. Thank you for calling.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94620	Ana Komaraić Devčić, replica of Damir Kajin's exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94621	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Cain, I must admit that I'm a little surprised by the way you're discussing this law and I could almost replicate almost all of your exposure. First I'll correct you in the part where you say there are 6 thousand people with disabilities in Croatia. No, there are 6,000 people with disabilities at the Employment Service. I wish we only had 6,000 people with disabilities. And I must stress that in the first 10 months of this year, there are 1400 people with disabilities. But what I want to especially emphasize, and I'm going to quote you because I wrote as you said, "Will the employers be able to fulfill the burden we give them with this law?" My colleague Cain, disabled people are not a burden. So, I can ask you if we're both you and me and all of us sitting here burdening our employers? My colleague Cain, these are people with the same rights, the same needs, the same obligations, the same expectations as you, me and all of us sitting here. And I ask that this high house once and for all take the view that persons with disabilities are not the burden of this society. That they're equal, same as you, and me and all of us sitting here. I'm really asking you that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94622	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94623	You may not understand what I was going to say, but yes, both you and me and these 153 MPs here and the entire Parliament that serves us, we are in some way Croatian citizens and Croatian employers and we need to be clean. Our salaries are gross about 30,000 kunas for those 15 grand and as much as we get or what they're worth. And these 900 kunas the next day that the Croatian economy will have to set aside per person with disabilities is also a burden for the Croatian economy, but they must not be a burden to this society. And here, we may not understand each other, but I think we feel the same way. On the other hand, a moment ago, Mr. Hrelja reminded me, so in Istria, we spend 50 million kunas on a party a year. I don't know how much you spend in the Primorian-Gorski County, but I do know that all disabled people can be solved in one year. For the media in Istria we spend and at least if we were free, I wouldn't say anything, at least 15 million kunas a year and their PR agencies, that's 60 million kuna in one term. I say we settle all the unemployed in Istria with that money in one year. We get our little economy on its feet with that 60 million kuna. For example, for phones. 5 million kuna per year is spent in the County of Istria. In other municipalities, cities of about 20 million kuna. I don't know why they need so much and what they're doing. For tyres, only in the County of Istria, 750 thousand kuna, that's 1,000 tires. I don't know how many of those cars are there. For intellectual services 7.9 million kuna, only in the county times 4 is it in other municipalities and cities, it is somewhere around 30 million kuna. ... in a year, only if we were to deal differently with the public budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94624	Thank you, dear fellow Cain. Thank you. Thank you very much. There was no mention in the replica of Istria or the County of Istria. Miss twilight, replica. Turn yourself off, Comrade Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94625	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, I said I'd never lift your line because then we're going to expose ourselves to one strange way and the burden of your speech, but I have to do my replica, and I'm going to repeat what your colleague told you, it's not just that impression of the weight you're talking about, and you're talking about people with disabilities, a respected colleague, the representative of this High Croatian House, Cain. They are never and will not be persons with disabilities and must not be, and they are very aware of Croatian realities, all those persons and young and old and children and their parents and all those who live with them, are aware of every crisis and recession, now you say 6 years is going on, it is hard to find a job and all, 315 thousand unemployed, but trust the crisis of people with disabilities lasts permanently, permanently. How come you didn't mention it then, you said the burden was to hire people with disabilities, and I didn't hear you in this Croatian Assembly that you said that the burden was party employment, I didn't hear you. You never mentioned that, no. And on the other hand, an esteemed colleague, on the other hand, yes, you mentioned the odds well, that and those are tools, these are tools for all and that's true and that's good. And I only agree with you at one time when you said that you should be in this Croatian Assembly as you were sitting in the last meeting of two of our MPs, persons with disabilities, but here you are, too, on your list to be on, so put the person with the disability first to enter the Assembly for you and then prove all of this. And in this way talk about people, about a man as a burden, it's embarrassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94626	Thank you very much. Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94627	Now I don't know what I'm supposed to answer. So what are you saying that I'm telling those people But I can replicate, if I can't answer, I can replicate. [[So you don't have to answer. It's not necessary.]] So what burden? So among other things, I advocate that of these eight minority MPs elected to the Croatian Parliament, here are at least three persons being persons with a physical expression or I don't know what to say, with that disability. Finally, I stand for something else. For a clean majority system, not a proportional system, we choose representatives by name and last name as I, say 20 years ago, entered this House. You are talking about the burden, so it might be good to know the opportunities in Croatian society, but today one title has just come out, I can also mention the newspaper, Vecernji List, every 5th company in Croatia will be firing workers next year. I am not running away from the fact that this upgrade is complete, it should not be a burden, but in a society like ours, they or we are in some way, especially because of the failure of economic flows to complete or entire Croatian economy. And there's no such thing as a great distance. Whether it's about local self-government, whether it's about regional self-government or whether it's about our ministries, agencies, it doesn't matter, to the government or to the president's office. It's all the same. Someone simply needs to provide for us about 27, 28, 29 thousand kuna gross, it's net 15 and 300 to 16, 16.5 thousand kuna, as to whom, but it just takes so much to secure. So don't impute something I never thought in my mind, that they're people who are burdened by someone, we have to take care of them before I mention how much they spend on those purposes in the County of Istria...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94628	Thank you very much. Hey, buddy, time's up. Minister Miranda Mrsic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94629	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So just to clarify this discussion so that we do not repeat that we know exactly how many employers apply, absolutely not a burden, it is a socially responsible entrepreneurship and every socially responsible entrepreneur in Croatia regardless of their finances and regardless of their situation you should think about that when he is able to hire a person with disabilities. In Croatia, currently according to DSZ data, there are 201 thousand 159 business entities, so those registered. Of that number, only 164 thousands and 21 entities are active. More than 20 employees, so it is a group of employers that will be required to employ a certain number of people with disabilities has a letter and a number of 7,600. So 7,600 employers in Croatia will be obliged to hire a disabled person. Some of these employers already and now have employees of such persons, therefore they will very easily meet the quota. So according to the law, when we see an eyewitness and this entire system that we've now launched, we think that somewhere around 35,000 people with disabilities, so for so many jobs, there will be quotas. However, we forget another thing, that in Croatia in the Register of Persons with Disabilities we have 520,000 people according to this one of the remarks was that it will not be possible to meet the quotas because the labour market will not be sufficient for the number of people with disabilities who are able to hire them. So this also shows that we were real about planning the law itself, that we were real about law enforcement, and absolutely certainly the law would be implemented. And this government to make certain steps in this area. And one last thing, so these funds that are being allocated so those employers who fail to meet the quota or do not have any substitute quotas will return, but to whom? For example, all those who have less than 20 employees and are not obliged to hire a disabled person, if employed, will receive 15% per salary, so about 450 kuna per month for each disabled person if they are not required. Therefore, these funds are returned to entrepreneurs at no time intended to be used for any other purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94630	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94631	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, just for a little while, I can't agree in this part that there can't be any burden in that part that socially responsible entrepreneurship is desirable, and that's what's and there's that. Here I have recently had one experience that an entrepreneur from my local level where we are in a specific environment has asked for a person with disabilities to hire, already has but has asked. And now I've looked forward to it and that act itself and it's a wonderful gesture and a good gesture and now I'm kind of spinning to try to see a specific job as well as in what way help. And then when it comes to such a realisation of wishes, you get the problem that it's simply not possible to find an adequate person, it's a specific job. And that's why there's what my colleague Tušak said that it would have been so much better if a year ago this had been in the law that it could have been because every moment that could contribute to speed up this process and to get a say and a certain professional qualification for a particular job would have been welcome. So there's a certain responsible entrepreneurship, there's people who want to contribute to that part, and I think it should have started a long time ago that maybe because it's not a job that seems overnight. Now we'll pass the law and it'll all be settled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94632	Replication by Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94633	So the incentive to hire disabled people doesn't start with this law. So far, we have had incentives to hire people with disabilities for the education of people with disabilities. Why is there such a small number of people with disabilities at the Employment Service? For one reason some have lost their will to seek further employment. We think that in this way and these people who are outside the system, we're going to get them into the system, and we're going to give them the opportunity to work. So this law came into force last year, but then we already said that we would have a year to assess what and how to do and note that this year over 21 million kunas have been paid off to employers for hiring people with disabilities, so this law did not prevent employers who had a job with disabilities who needed to adjust their jobs to get those incentives. Therefore, this law is neither late nor the urgency of amending this law to fix something but to improve it, and we announced it when we passed the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94634	Damir Cain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94635	I agree, too. This is just one in a series of laws that should help people with disabilities. Here is what I am particularly pleased that we have finally heard the data that 7,600 companies will have this obligation to hire or "pay" the amount in question to the state budget to help these persons. That way he intends to hire about 35,000 people somewhere, that's the quota we're talking about. However, what offends me in some way is this hidden intention in Article 2(1) of point 4 where it is literally said that "the advantage of employment referred to in paragraph 1 of this article does not concern employment in jobs established by law or other legal regulations as management jobs" and then they are saying, these are the meanings of jobs in public administration bodies, judicial authorities, state authorities, other bodies, etc., etc. And I'm asking myself literally why this distance, I'm not going to talk about some hidden intentions, don't give God racism or anything like that. It's one thing to choose someone and ask them to have electoral legitimacy and something else entirely is executive functions. We're back in the '90s, for example. In Istria, one company was called Tekop, where people were employed not in the superstructure but in the real sector, and it normally worked relatively well up there somewhere in 2000 when it all collapsed amongst other things. But once again, I ask the question why in the executive jobs not and why else he does.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94636	Replication by Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94637	Well you probably saw on the benches there is an amendment from the Croatian party of pensioners to delete that part. So in the part that we did the law and the defense attorney's proposal and the part of the text that came from and from it, so we incorporated it into the law itself. Here's the amendment. So I think it's going to be settled for mutual benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94638	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU colleague Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94639	Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister, dear assistants, colleagues and colleagues. So we have to do it again today, we are not making a new Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, we did it a year ago and we are discussing today and I believe that by the end of the session we will be deciding on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. For my impression we're a little late, I'd be much happier if we had discussed these changes sometime by 7 months, which means that all preparations would be much sooner than they are now before the end of the year because we had a transitional period of one year than there is. And that in some ways I refer to a part of the debate that was, that it is good to discuss today the International Day of Persons with Disabilities of the Problem it is very good that the problem is very rarely discussed in the Croatian Parliament and beyond in the Croatian public. And the problem goes beyond that, I'd say our judgments about its size. Definitely the problem of professional rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities surpasses political bickering and cannot be exclusive to one government or one political commitment. And if that works that way in life that it can work that way, I'll tell you on the basis of a single piece of information that my colleague Cain mentioned by the way, but not precisely enough. In fact, there was a Tekop Protective Workshop in the past system that went bankrupt in 2001. In bankruptcy there were also debts from the state, which then Minister Vidovic, with the consent of the Istrian County and the Alliance of Independent Unions, turned, by the government's decision to establish capital for Phoenix from the ashes, for Tekop Nova, which still works today. So Minister Vidovic began, Deputy Prime Minister here present Mrs Jadranka Kosor, our colleague, in the 7th month 2004, opened Tekop Nova, and all these years the institution's protection workshop for the employment of persons with disabilities is functioning. Two-thirds of the money needs are achieved through their business and one-third are provided by the state of Croatia, provided by the county and the city of Pula. And I think as long as that's the case, it's good because every year there's an increase in sensitivity for the needs of people with disabilities and for the functioning of such a protective facility that there's no fear of their survival. Look, it's not big wages, it's not great, it's not great, but people work, and they can say they live off their work, which is the most important, and they're very valuable and dedicated to their work. So it wasn't the Tekop story that ended, but Tekop's mission continues Tekop Nova, which is therefore not in competitive relations between various political options and various governments continued and started operating rather than where they left off, others continued. And I think that's where we have to experience this law of ours that we have here today. I'll say one more thing why we passed the law last year because what's been going on for the past 11 years really didn't make sense, and that's also the lack of this law and that's the purpose of this system's income. So over the past 11 years, that is, this 12th separation has been at 0.1 and 0.2%, respectively, the employers have singled it out as a contribution to professional rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities. On this basis, more than 100 million kunas are collected into the state budget annually. Let's say that all 12 years have averaged 100 million kuna because now I think I have data for 2012 somewhere at 120 and something million kuna, let's say it was average, and at the same time the return to the system from the state budget was about 40%. So does it make sense to have a purposeful contribution that we do not purposely use? He wasn't thrown, no one drank him, he was given either to employment measures or to some other social state needs, so we understand each other. I'm not alluding to such possibilities, but the fact that if something is a purposeful contribution that should be to the functioning of this system. That's why I'm afraid this law would never happen to us again. We will have instead of contributions we will have certain employment or payment due to non-employment of persons with disabilities, but again in the state budget of course with that sentence but that is not enough. The system will not have its original income and it is a long-term problem. It's not a system that's causing the country to collapse and I think it could and can take a step further tomorrow that they have their original incomes so that the system can develop and upgrade. So I just had to say it for an explanation of why we changed and now we're going to something else. I'd like to go on a bill of law. Mr. Minister, we have here in the light of the law that the obligation of quota employment of persons with disabilities can be fulfilled by employers in a replacement way. Not too much has been changed in Article 10 so that what you wrote in your explanation can be said we have incorporated it into the law, but I think it is better that it remains this way for one reason that can be overlooked. In fact, public companies, state-owned companies, public companies, cannot yet make a direct business arrangement with a single protection facility, or with an institution called a protection workshop, even if it sewed working suits. Why? Because bonds are public procurement, and that's where we have a problem. And they should be the first ones to see the social benefits of obtaining services and products for their needs in such institutions. So as much as I resent writing one thing, and there is no law, I think it's a good thing it didn't go too far to open the front here because we have objectively this problem that we have to solve in another law. We need to get rid of him in the Public Procurement Act. Of course, I wouldn't have any other major objections but what we found as remarks, we wrote three amendments, and I'm going to use this time to explain the amendments of the Club of Representatives to this text of the law. Otherwise he's good, the HSU club will surely support this, but also monitor the implementation of this law because we're interested. Of course we share everything that is said in this High House, that neither persons with disabilities nor pensioners can be shown as the burden of this society, and here and there some people who publicly perform this story escape. But they can't possibly be burdens, these are the conditions in which we all can either be or hope to be at those stages of life tomorrow, and none of us would want anyone to see it as a burden of society. What is still to be added is often addressed to the public that people with disabilities are persons with special needs. It is another of our Croatian delusions. They have all the same needs as us, none more and none less. So a completely wrong formulation and delusion in Croatian society and we are invited to talk publicly about these delusions, about what is unacceptable to Croatian society. So, of course, the minister has already answered his colleague Cain whether we are on Article 2(4) because we consider the provision to be discriminatory, especially us who have the privilege of going a little bit across Europe and seeing other countries and seeing ministers doing their duty in a wheelchair without any problems. So there is no obstacle that someone would not be appointed to an appropriate function, position, if, of course, his expert preparation meets the requirements. So disability as such must not be an obstacle to the performance of any leading function and we ask that this provision be deleted as discriminatory. Secondly, our point is to amend Article 5 of the law where we are talking about establishing a centre for professional rehabilitation and you know that we have four regional centres in the first proposal, which is important for the development of the system. We believe that for the start, since we have a system in creation, that it does not need to be overly liberalised, so at least with 10% participation in the ownership of that centre Croatia must be inside to standardise methods and procedures, in order to monitor the functioning of the system. So that's what we think we have a system, we've had, we don't start over, but some new people around the centers are getting involved in the system, and it's very important that we have standardised methods and procedures when deciding on certain facts from the part-line of the centre's work. And lastly, we suggested that we add Article 9 to the obligations of the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, taxing some of the bases that we hold important, which is that this institution also has an obligation to carry out campaigns and to sensitise the public to the needs of persons with disabilities and to point out their equality with other citizens of Croatia. We also want that the functions of evaluation of the development and functioning of this system of ours should be organised in a new way as an annual and professional set as an obligation to analyse, function of the system. And of course it is important for us to install and develop international cooperation and exchange of experience in the fields of our activities, because it is a privilege to learn from the experiences of others. We don't have the right to be the most beautiful and smartest person in the world. What I would draw attention to in the end is the state of our society's sensibilization of people with disabilities. I can't possibly understand that big financial corporations talk to citizens instead of people, users of services through voice machines. I cannot understand that some state institutions have the ambition to use machines to communicate with citizens. I think we failed the exam as people instead of adapting those jobs to people who would like to live more than we would like to live with dignity and live from our work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94640	Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94641	Thank you very much. A colleague, Madam Vice President. Comrade Hrelja, you brought me back here in the past ten years ago, but it's good to remember sometimes. And its finding that it is important for disabled people to have the opportunity to live as well as any other person to live from their work is perhaps the greatest truth that we need to discuss today. Like everyone else, of course, and every person with disabilities only if he has the ability to study, work, and that's all in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the UN, then he can have a full life. That's why it's important, I agree with you that every policy, every government respects at least in this area of continuity policy. So what one good start, that others continue, that they don't change, that they upgrade. However, I believe that for people with disabilities, any government can build a system further. I personally advocate packages, for example in the Ministry of Economy special packages to encourage entrepreneurship, craftsmanship in people with disabilities. This is possible because any society can provide a group of companies with some additional conditions. And what we politicians have to learn, you have mentioned people with special needs often and politicians make a terrible mistake, so when they want to insult each other especially in political space, then they often say that politicians at all levels that someone, you're autistic, you're deaf and blind, not knowing absolutely that they insult people with disabilities who don't have any special needs. And I agree with you rather than with the needs of everyone else, but society must give them an additional incentive for both employment and work, but also for education.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94642	Replication response, Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94643	Dear colleague, I'm glad we agree and I'm glad you've completed my presentation in the self-employment and opening of special packages. I probably missed that in my employment. The only thing I could say on your line is that I will always advocate doing good, so we have a policy of continuity, doing good and talking about it. Because if we keep quiet about it, then nobody knows anything about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94644	Anna Comparic-Devcic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94645	Thank you, Vice President. Sir, my colleague is not a gentleman. He's a colleague. I was actually going to say that as far as this amendment is concerned, which you have submitted, and therefore concerns the discriminatory part that applies to these positions, that I really don't see any reason why people with disabilities would not be able to perform discriminatory functions in any body and in any company. However, we have very good examples where people with disabilities are directors and very successful directors. So I don't really see the problem, and I think the ministry will accept one such amendment, I suppose. And as for this second part of the part that you said that the state must appeal, this second amendment, to appeal to the state to be part of the regional, founder of the regional rehabilitation centre and persons with disabilities. I'm not so sure that we and Priory have to question the ability of people who run local self-government and regional self-government units. What's important is that the possibility of a different combination of what I said and in my own, when I spoke on behalf of the club, and it's important to stress that we make sure that everywhere they're equal, that it's going to be, that in some way, a uniformed attitude towards people with disabilities is that they have to get the consent of the resolution ministry and the institution itself. So I think that already gives us one guarantee that our regional centres will really work the same way everywhere. And I'd just like to take care of it, so we're not going and Priors, that our local self-government units are in no condition to do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94646	Replication response, Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94647	Absolutely understandably, it was not the intention of this amendment to say that some unit of local self-government is unable to understand this issue. There is always a question of how many options they have, because these days we and these possibilities of local self-government units have discussed. But we've been keeping track of the amendment that all options are open and there are different founding roles, that the state can be with 10% inside a purely symbolic partner but in these 10% participate at all costs of the regional centre. And it's also open to legal persons. But we're not in any position to open up at the moment, because we're setting up a system from January 1st next year, we open up completely and put ourselves at risk. I'll agree with you to liberalize the matter after a year of functioning regional centres. And anyway, we're going to look at the functioning of the system and the change of this law in a positive sense shouldn't be any problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94648	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94649	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I am pleased that you have given the amendment to this one that discriminates in reality throughout the law of a person with disabilities who could not compete for the place of executive. But that's the basic problem, that's what you said yourself, and that's education. We know that education is particularly bad for people with disabilities. And somehow they started slowly with here and with the organizations that are working, so I'd mention here an association, which is the High Apple Association. They implement one project called "Other Persons of Disabilities", young people are involved, so people with a disability of younger age, have opened all social networks, and here they want to be in close contact with employers, and they want to point to themselves and their opportunities. And a very nice line is really from and the president of that association, he says, "We don't always have to look for the culprit in the employer, we need to get stronger ourselves. How? Education." And that's why I'm very sorry, today's funds have been said for the Attorney General's Office people with disabilities are something raised, but what they were supposed to be are funds for education, especially when it comes to people with disabilities. That's what I was talking about today. Find and find the strength and raise your hands for the amendments even if they were coming here from the HDZ that academic Reiner warned and indeed those 6 amendments were a total of maybe a million-and-a-half and related to improving the conditions of education of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94650	Thank you. Silvano Hrelja, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94651	Dear colleagues, time will show, I wouldn't waste my emotions on whether we were wrong or not by refusing those amendments. But in one way, I can agree with you that civil society dealing with this problem should certainly involve and use their creativity and their proposals in some way to improve, therefore, employment and adapt jobs and that they say what they could essentially do and that they could contribute to this society. The worst thing about politics is trying to put people with disabilities into a political car. Unfortunately, we have a lot in Croatia too, which is also unacceptable. I think that, in my opinion, we should write one agreement among all the political parties that this story is used by whoever is in politics that doesn't have the right of citizenship. However, we are still far from such a conversation among political parties. But I think one such code of conduct would be very necessary for Croatian society in relation to persons with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94652	Vanya Posavac, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94653	Thank you. I thank the esteemed vice president. My dear colleague, here I am first referring to what you have said that we as public persons must sensitize the public and here I fully agree with you and attach to what you said and refer to the appeal that large corporations but also cities, counties, various companies not only in some way end voice machines but rather make sure that they employ people with disabilities in certain places. Unfortunately, often that's not the case. These are especially important jobs, for example, for people who are undersighted. However, unfortunately very, very few are employed right at telephone stations, on receptions that do not require means big jobs. I'm joining your appeal, and I think we all need to be louder in seeking justice for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94654	Silvano Hrelja, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94655	Thank you very much, dear colleague. You know, I've been challenged, and that's why I said what I said about the pay phone. I was challenged once by the knowledge that an institution of the Croatian state that should be more closely engaged in human rights and human rights protection also put on a speech machine which is unacceptable. So I assume that those who are indirectly called, there is no point in calling anyone from this place but that they will be recognized, let them hear and they will be recognized. And secondly, as far as doing good and talking about it and taking care of people with disabilities why with all our obligations that are not small but still we could devote a little bit to associations and these protective workshops why we each, each of us don't go to our own town, our municipality, our county and little see how these people work. I remember in Rijeka we worked for that Centre in the Queen a charity concert, but we saw what these people do, how they live, how those kids live. I'm not saying we're much better than others, but we have a little more sensitivity, but I would recommend that all of our colleagues and colleagues see what happens in their environment. No one can stop us. They'll be happy to see you. I know from my experience that every time we come here, they'll welcome us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94656	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94657	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, I think that today we are all in the vote, therefore agreeing on these attributes which have been proposed by this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities almost everything has been said. So I'm wondering how much it is and my debate can be another contribution to this overall debate about it. But what I have noticed and what I will still have to do and repeat is that today is a day for people with disabilities, that there should be no doubt that the same rights, the same needs, the same obligations, and then the right to education and life, therefore, from their work and persons without disabilities and persons with disabilities. They can't, and they can't be a burden to this society, so all we're saying today is we speak with good intentions, and I'm convinced each and every one of us with the same thesis that I've said and that many others have said. New employment bonds for people with disabilities under this new law, so they are not only employers in the public sector but also in the private sector if they employ 20 and more workers. Here later we have in one article that I found, a calculation of 20, if the company has 22 employees, so it's multiplying by 2%, that's 0.44%, so that company has no obligation because it's not 0.5 anymore. So it would turn out and mathematically it would turn out that a company that has 23 employees has an obligation, and one that is below 23 has no obligation to hire persons with disabilities. So I'm wondering, here's what you're gonna tell me is that it or not? So it says here a company that has more than 20 employees, and it's not more than 23 has to have, when you multiply with coefficient 2 you get 0.22 times, 23 times 2% is 0.46 which crosses and cuts the right and obligation to hire one person with disabilities. So she could write for 20 23 and almost, more than 23, companies with more than 23 employees that's one thing. In any case, we will either have to make a proposal to change certain articles and articles that will allow workshops to be protected, and then to production associations, etc. because of the Law on Public Procurement or in Law, and I think that the law comes again on the agenda of this Croatian Parliament. in which most people are employed, therefore, with disabilities that in this Public Procurement Act and therefore those who are subject to this Public Procurement Act, which are public institutions, public enterprises, have some advantage if they are competitive with all those other public procurement companies and have an advantage in that public procurement. This is what I think, in fact, without that part of the law, the new legislation, as well as the protection workshop spoken of by the colleagues of Hrelja, would be a little harder to survive and have major problems on the market. The disability list or, as the list says here, those who have been entered into the register are quite wide. So we have a person with disabilities because of all sorts of things, starting with the senses of basic, so disability about the central nervous system, so hearing, eyes, extremities and various other types of disability. And according to what was proposed in the law, we have a classification of business entities and therefore can be employed by people with disabilities. What Mr. Hrelja said, not that it bothers people with disabilities because of employment, mostly low-sighted and blind persons, so phone stations that, who have voice machines, and that bothers us too when we get healthy, and then five, six times we have to call because you fail to press one, so when you get, press five, then press six, so I don't get a person who, I think, talks to the person who's alive, who's on the plant, who can connect you and tell you to find a connection with the person you're looking for, a much better solution. And besides, it would be useful to hire undersighted and blind. I have information that in late September, 6762 people with disabilities were reported at the Employment Office. You told the ministers that this law covers 7,600 employers who have over 20 employees. If each of these companies were to hire one, then there would be no more people with disabilities without a job at the Employment Office. Very interesting data and comparison of the number of companies that have over 20 employees and the number of people with disabilities registered at the Employment Office. This would achieve great steps, which is why I, and my club, is to say that half-two is quite certain for the implementation of this law along with the amendments they have proposed because this Article 2 is in item 4 a little discriminatory, and so as you have agreed to do so yourself, that we will change it together, improve it, I really have no objections to this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94658	We're just going to be replicas, we're not even gonna be done. Hansel Mandic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94659	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Given that my colleague Boro was in a hurry, I'd like to rephrase to him exactly when you told him this information about how disabled he was at the Bureau and if all the companies hired one, he... would no longer have a disabled person. I think it's great that the law regulates employers who count more than 20 employees to have one person with disabilities. I think that's good, and that's how we influence sensitivity because if there's not this provision in the law then the sensitivity of most employers wasn't exactly present, so it's good to build up this legal provision and put all people with disabilities on the labour market that time, that's good anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94660	We're not going to put them on the labour market, we're going to make it possible to hire them. Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94661	Thank you very much, colleague Mandic. Well, I just pointed out that because I got the information from the minister that there are 7 grand and 600, so economic operators that have over 20 employees, and here's the data here that at the end of September, 6 grand 762 people with disabilities were reported on the employment records. So that's exactly what you've just confirmed what I've said, we actually agree on everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94662	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94663	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Grubisic, you have therefore put this debate in the context of today's day, so today is Disabled Day, or Persons with Disabilities. In fact, I would remind you that from the moment, so from 25.11. to 10.12., it takes two weeks of activists, fighting for human rights, and the rights of disabled persons are an integral part or an integral part of human rights. So, I personally view this legislative proposal as an effort to ensure through the quota employment of disabled people that the structure of employees reflects the structure of society. Therefore, a certain percentage of society consists of persons with disabilities and the same percentage of the total number of employees must act, must be made up of persons with disabilities. And what you were saying also in your debate, that is, you mentioned an example that would be very good if instead of automatic secretaries we had living persons with a certain kind of disability in those jobs, that it would be much more humane and for those people, we would also solve one of the basic existential problems, which is exactly employment and for those persons on the other hand it would be far more acceptable, far more humane again. I have a personal experience, so I know a person who worked in one company, who was blind, so the person with the disability, it was enough to pick up the phone and say good day, she already knew who it was, so she recognized me for just two words, I just want to point out that the people who have a certain disability are developing a horrible she some other perceptive traits, and that's what I think communication is very, very important. So I absolutely support that automatics are replaced by people.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94664	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94665	Thank you very much. Here, I almost forgot what I was gonna say when you didn't want to turn off the microphone, but trust me, there's a lot of praise on those companies, like, for example. was the same, here's an example at Slavonski Ships Hospital a person who was undersighted was working at headquarters, as soon as you heard from her, she knows who she is. So, and the company, the company where such a person works gets the praises of those who call, so, yeah, great, that's where, when we get there, when we call, we get a great favor. And by that, by that entrance, so the contact that goes when you call someone on the phone, you've got a great reception and the automatically and the company gets, I'm not going to say the reputation, but one plus the one they're looking for. And here we agree, this human one-access approach, and look, I'm that secretary automatically in one, at one teleoper, she used up my battery on my Iphone because I waited two hours, I switched to 1, so switch to two, so wait a minute and play me some sleeping music, etc., two hours, my battery went to the Iphone waiting for two hours for the person to provide me with a favor. So we agree here and when... companies think this way, I think we'd come up with a lot better solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94666	Miss twilight, replica. Turn off the microphone [[Upadica Grubišić: Excuse me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94667	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, in my replica, I just wanted to add something else to you, an esteemed colleague, and it's about this one, so I'd say a small number of 6 thousand 700 people and something that's registered at the Employment Service, and that's exactly the biggest problem in that, and that's according to research, that's their education. Most in reality among these 6,700 in the Croatian Employment Service records is the number of unemployed persons with disabilities between 20 and 29 years of age. We can list the reasons why it is and why people with disabilities feel unstimulated. These are still architectural barriers and difficulties when arriving at work, very often means we have not yet solved these architectural barriers. Then educational programmes that do not conform to the interests and abilities of persons with disabilities as well as the needs for the labour market, thus insufficient adjustment of working conditions, jobs for persons with disabilities. And what is the problem of how in all Croatia it is a lack of jobs, high competition in the labour market. And that's why I think that all of us who are talking here today, and also those who don't have a chance to talk right now, but do it is that we really stand up for the education of people with disabilities, that it's as necessary as the education of all of us. And we see that the problems of young people with disabilities are the same as in other young people in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94668	Thank you very much. Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94669	Thank you very much. Comrade twilight, I agree with everything you've said, and I didn't go into it so much, but here's what you've said I agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94670	We'll continue at 15.00 hours with an individual debate. First in line Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić. It's a 13,28 o'clock meeting.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94671	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] It is up to the individual debate that the distinguished representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94672	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, we have seen, in fact, that only by applying the law can we then see what the obstacles to achieving the objective of this law are, that is, what the shortcomings in implementation are, and that is why the amendments and additions are served, and we will understand these changes and complements in this regard. Croatia, as we know, is a signator of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, where it is of course the right to work. When we look at the EU in which we are a member of course, the employment rate of people with disabilities is about 50%, and in some Member States, of course, quotas have been introduced, as is the case with us. The Law on Professional Rehabilitation of Employment of Persons with Disabilities, we hope, in fact, that during other changes, if seen, that is, by respecting the amendments that are today, which the minister has said to accept, unlike those politicised, which of course no one can accept, will actually lead to a better application of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The minister also said in the opening section that people with disabilities are good workers and that we can all agree on that. In fact, it is known that they are at least in pain because they actually aim to get out among people, or the goal of not being home. The application of the law, in fact the right application of the law begins on 1 January 2015, by applying the quota system of employment of persons with disabilities, as well as the start of work of regional centres for professional rehabilitation. Today there were speeches, the question of how the units of local self-government, in which they will be able to handle these centres, but we wonder today on the day of the disabled how many units of local self-government actually marked today, or how many obstacles they took off the agenda, how many communal obstacles, etc. As far as the Croatian Employment Service is concerned, we have data that a total of 6 thousand 765 persons with disabilities are registered sometime this year, and that is about 2.2% of the unemployed people registered in the Institute's records. Various measures have been taken to improve the employment of people with disabilities. These were measures to encourage employment from the jurisdiction of the Croatian Employment Service, these were, if you remember, packages of measures included, aimed naturally at persons with disabilities. According to the Croatian Employment Institute, there is a sharp increase in the inclusion of disabled persons in these active employment policy measures, so I will give a few data, the relationship that grew when you looked at 2011 compared to the year before, the increase was almost 40%. During 2013, 1076 people with disabilities were included in some of the active employment policy measures and when compared to the year before, 2012, it was about 38.1%. Today, there has been a lot about incentives, when we talk about incentives, these are incentives from the institution for professional rehabilitation and employment of people with disabilities. Then we also heard that the number of employers as well as the number of disabled people for whom the incentives are paid by the institution for professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. It actually grows from year to year. And according to the latest data, here's an employee, for 1100 people with disabilities, 21 million 362 thousand 264 kuna was paid in the first 10 months of this year. Qualifying people with disabilities are, of course, persons with at least 20 employees, today there was talk of whether it could be 23, etc. And we'll probably hear that from the minister and it's been determined that the total number of employers is 7600, so these are quota bonds. However, if employers fail to meet the quota or by hiring persons with disabilities or by replacing them in exactly 01.01.2015, they will be obliged to pay a minimum wage of 30% for each person with disabilities they were obliged to employ. These 30% in the environment, here we had the data, the minister said the Slovenes raised it to 70%. In fact, the Institute provides a solution to the obligation to pay cash compensation, and that is for those debtors who commit them to cash compensation, but they have not established, or have not actually achieved it within certain deadlines. I must stress, that is, that is, because previously said, the funds paid on the basis of the cash compensation are used for purpose purposes, this is for the purpose of involving persons with disabilities, for the purpose of protecting work, for the purpose of encouraging, for the purpose of employment, of course, for the purpose of single employment of persons with disabilities. We also heard that the Ombudsman’s remarks were taken into account, and then the problem of the lack of definition of disability evidence here is actually corrected, i.e. the evidence of disability is considered public disability documents on the basis of which a person can actually be entered in the register of persons with disabilities. A case of discrimination against employment rights, an advantage in employment, has also been resolved, but in cases where the right of advantage in employment is achieved by several candidates according to different regulations, the decision is then left to the employer. So, so far, people with disabilities have been in a more unfavourable position with other groups that have the advantage of employment. Also, this law states that the applicable law obliges the Republic of Croatia and local self-government units to establish a professional rehabilitation centre that systematically and in accordance with market needs will train people with disabilities for work and also provide professional support to employers in actual employment of disabled persons. Units of local and regional (regional) self-government can be independent centre founders, but of course this state will still have a certain one, will be a supervisor to them. In this way, it will actually control the fulfillment of all the conditions that matter. Also relevant are personnel, organisational, spatial, technical, etc. We also mentioned substitute quotas today, so I can cut that short. This law details the terms and conditions for the conclusion of a contract when a working unit for the employment of persons with disabilities can achieve the status of an integral workshop, not just a protection workshop that has actually been in the current law. In the end, I can say that, in fact, by this law and these amendments to the law, we return to the market of people with disabilities. It also has a social element that is very, very important. Our goal is to reduce disability pensions and actually increase work to suitable other places. I also have to mention a new system of professional rehabilitation because if we have pensions on the one hand, and on the other hand we have training, so we can train people with disabilities to rehab for another job and thus involve them in the labour market, or eventually involve them in life. By entering the Law on the Single Body of Art, institutions get more responsibility, of course, because these changes actually enable that goal, which is to bring people with disabilities back to the labour market, and a single body of art achieves a single justice that has not really been so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94673	Thank you. We have another individual debate over 10 minutes. Dear Ljiljana Cvetovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94674	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In its history, human society shows a tendency to isolate people with disabilities and despite some improvements in such forms of discrimination among people with disabilities remains a serious and prevailing social problem. Data from various surveys and studies document that persons with disabilities as a group assume subordinated status in our society and are seriously denied social, professional, economic and educational. Persons with disabilities are a hidden and isolated minority facing restrictions and restrictions subject to the tradition of unfair treatment and placed in a position of political helplessness in our society. And such a position is based on specificities that are beyond the control of these persons and result in stereotype assumptions that do not reflect the individual abilities of such individuals or how much they can participate in society and contribute to them. Discrimination of people with disabilities is seen in areas such as employment, housing, public spaces, education, transport, communication, recreation, health services, voting and access to public services. These people constantly encounter various barriers, transport, communication, architectural, transfer to less important services, programmes, activities and other potential opportunities. The economy must ensure reasonable adjustments in order to protect the rights of persons with disabilities in all aspects of employment. Possible changes should include restructure of jobs, changes in workplaces and modification of equipment. The law should strongly sanction all procedures that could have a negative impact on the employment and position of persons with disabilities. An examination or a specific medical examination of the candidates for employment or staff should not be allowed for the purpose of verifying that they have any disability. Only when standards and requirements are predetermined for the workplace that a person with disabilities cannot meet and cannot make adjustments at a reasonable cost. Furthermore, a public transport system such as passenger buses should be accessible to disabled persons. This law should provide that public vehicles of lifts for wheelchairs and other equipment with a view to equating transport opportunities. At least one wagon on each passenger train would have to offer access to persons in a wheelchair. All new constructions and adaptations must be accessible to persons with disabilities, all public spaces and public buildings such as catering facilities, theatres, cinemas, shops, banks, travel offices, law offices, pharmacies, hospitals, museums, all educational institutions from kindergartens to universities, nursing homes and many other places must be accessible unless adjustments would be related to disproportionate difficulties or costs. According to the latest data from the Croatian Institute of Public Health in January 2014 in Croatia there were slightly less than 12% or more precisely 510 274 persons with disabilities. Statistically, it would mean that every 8 or 9 person is a person with disabilities. Here's an example of television, every 8 or 9 people on TV should be a person with disabilities according to that data, and is that so? And when people with disabilities show up in a TV program, why can't disability be accepted as something that's a fact for a part of the population and don't need to run away from, why can't a Croatian TV host or a host be a person with disabilities? The disability of every person creates difficulties in life, and it is likely that any person with disabilities would like to have no disability. These persons can adapt more or less successfully to their condition, and it is precisely the reaction of the environment to such a situation that will allow people with disabilities to be more or less equal in society. Persons with disabilities are still fighting in Croatia for basic human rights. Finally, I would mention the inadmissible manipulation of people with disabilities. The government at all levels likes to put an indirect person with disabilities in a clientelistic position through various political networks. Of course, it is always presented to the public as their special needs. And they have unresolved basic needs. My debate did not directly touch the proposed amendments to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, but this is an exceptional opportunity to recall the basic facts and problems facing people with disabilities on a daily basis. And also to remind ourselves of what we have missed out on them so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94675	Thank you. He had reported one replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94676	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, that's why my colleague Cvetovic applied, because you weren't talking about this very law, you were talking about people with disabilities. But in any case, this law, these measures, and these intentions, have come in handy to get as much as possible of these 6 765 to be active and to activate their capabilities. But you spoke in full terms of people with disabilities, with those difficulties they face in every place, from what the Ombudsman insists on people with disabilities and talks about the first accessibility. So, you also talked about that part of rehabilitation that needs to be particularly stressed because that rehabilitation is very often a stumbling block and it is not well solved. Not to mention what I often talk about, most often orthopedic aids, insufficient amounts of orthopaedic aids that people with disabilities point to. And in that sense, all possible attention is needed, therefore, to all the possibilities of these damages. So I'm saying it's not good to rush into some solutions. So you remember well Center Stančić, where it went with one solution of top-of-the-line deinstitutionalization, that those people from that center, and the parents and all those involved, have resisted so much, because it's just not easy to spend overnight all of a sudden. It simply requires many orthopedic aids, many services and all that is expensive, and sometimes it is wanted to be done, and I always say let's not fix what is not corrupt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94677	The reply to the replica honoured Ljiljana Cvetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94678	Well, I agree with you, which is why I answered individually because I believe that in an individual debate a little bit can come out of the law framework and talk a little bit wider about it. In any case, rehabilitation of such persons is very long, if not lifelong, but in my debate I stressed that all cities, municipalities should take more care of them because I come from a city where I feel that one person in a wheelchair cannot move on his own and live on his own. And such individuals should be able to live on their own and move on their own in the city, coming to individual services, not to encounter various obstacles to come to any institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94679	Final minutes belong to Minister Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94680	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I hope I don't use 30 minutes, short few minutes just for three things, you didn't think so. So, a brief review of three things. It's one thing that we've been having a little bit of a discussion today with that stereotype that a disabled person can do. I understand that voice machines and employment in telephone stations have always been a stereotype of people with disabilities, but we must make a step further. As you know, one of the most famous scientists and thinkers is a person with disabilities, whose messages the whole world listens to and considers them carefully. And from our example, we of the 8 people we were supposed to hire had 4 people with disabilities, our sector chief went into second, so local self-government, so it's absolutely possible to work and give people with disabilities to work. As for the quotas themselves, so the quotas will be redesigned and this observation that when we apply the 0.2 quota to 20 employees, that does not turn out to be the correct number. On the other hand, 0.6 is, 6% too large, so somewhere around 3%, so around 3 would be a unique rate and in that way we would solve all the problems of who gets into which quota classes and we agree with the social partners. And the last is that the funds that are collected in this way from the quota go to a special... in the Treasury, so at the Ministry of Finance and can only be used for these. Therefore, there will be no spillover into other parts because these funds need to be paid and encouraged by those employers who have more employees than their quota. Here, thank you very much and I'm glad all the clubs will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94681	Your brief debate has caused three replicas. First, the esteemed Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94682	Dear Minister, I'm going to look back on what you said that we all talked about stereotypes in employment and you mentioned one of the most famous scientists in the world, probably that we have and our scientific ones would be as well known as this one you mention. So stereotypes us in fact when you look at the principle of Croatian Telecom's work, how it works, what it's done, and we have so many unemployed people, and between that and nearly 7,000 people with disabilities, of course we first think they could have done it because I don't know if you've ever lost your phone line and tried to get it, yes, I think your hair would have grown longer than me because you have to type there 100 numbers to get a person, if you're lucky, after 2 hours you'll get that person because they've all fired. And as stereotyped as it is, but Croatian telecoms and other companies that extract money from Croatia could at least be so fond of Croatia to satisfy our stereotype wish, but of course we do not think that people with disabilities can only do these jobs. I can do more complex jobs and other jobs, and this was only one example of how many companies in Croatia should not work and how badly they use, and I will even say, Croatia's well-being towards such phenomena.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94683	Minister Miranda Mrsic answers on the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94684	Well, I'm sorry that you misunderstood, and I didn't mean to call anyone or anything I'm doing, but it's just one of the stereotypes, and we have to change this stereotype not only because of people with disabilities but also because of their education, because it's certainly too small for people with disabilities to look at high school education, especially when we're looking at higher school education, and that's why we all have to work to change these things. Therefore, it wasn't my intention to object to anyone or to give someone something away.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94685	The second line is the esteemed Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94686	Thank you. Well, I don't know, at the same time, my colleague Vuksic and I picked up a line, and we thought the same thing. It's about stereotypes, I know the minister didn't think and clearly that and now he said that his mention of stereotype is in another sense, but I also want to point out the problem of T-com, related to employment through a student service, about a large number of people working there for no money, there's been a huge layoff, which doesn't mean that a large significant part of a disabled person could work in a working relationship with such companies and clearly that what allows them. [[Stazić: So you can't speak at the same time.]] But, well, T-com is owned by someone else, Croatia has given it up, and we have a situation where workers are released daily, and the same is now announced by some new layoff and it is clear that a replacement for such workers will be working again through a student service or through something else, and this does not go towards what we say about higher employment, especially when we talk about people with disabilities, persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94687	And the third replica, respected Branka Juričev-Matrinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94688	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, you said on several occasions that it is possible to redesign the quota, then I ask you to consider the possibility when it comes to units of local self-government and budgetary users, since it is financing from the same municipal or county budget, it means that it respects the obligation to employ a certain number of persons with disabilities with the possibility that in one organisational unit, if a larger number is employed to compensate with that other organisational unit because, as I said, it is financed from the same budget for purpose, because of practicality, because here, e.g. The city of Vodice has twice as much in the city administration as disabled persons while in kindergarten we do not have, now since 01.01. we will have this obligation, and we already have a systematization filled with all jobs, and not to say that it is difficult to find and almost impossible to find an aunt who will be a person with a disability of a pedagogue, psychologist, and those jobs are filled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94689	Thank you. I thank the minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94690	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, Emergency Procedure, Budget and Other Reading, P.Z.BR.731. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Club of Representatives of the HSU in the Croatian Parliament. I would like the representative of the Proposer, Bozidar Stuber, Deputy Minister of Labour and Pension System to take note of the amendment of the Legislative Committee to Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94691	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94692	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No 2 to Article 9, 4, 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94693	The government also accepts it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94694	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. We're going to the HSU amendment club. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94695	The government also accepts it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94696	Thank you. He became an integral part of the final bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94697	Accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94698	Thank you very much. He became an integral part of the final bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94699	Accepts in modified form.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94700	In a changed form. You can explain that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94701	Therefore, the proposal is accepted that the Institute for the Skills of Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities in its Part-Corruption implements campaign and sensitivity and public sensitization tasks to the employment needs of persons with disabilities and points to the equality of persons with disabilities, but in relation to all persons, not just the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94702	Amendment bearer, Advocacy Club, on behalf of the club, Silvano, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94703	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94704	Thank you very much. He's up. That's what we've done with all the amendments. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that unanimously with 115 votes for the adopted Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities in Text as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94705	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Welfare, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 739 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Maya Sporish, Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94706	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. The proposed Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act, with the Final Proposal for the Law, will comply with the provisions of the Law on Social Welfare with the Law on the Single Body of Art which came into force in July of this year and which we have certainly debated here. In accordance with the Law on the Single Body of Arts of 1 January 2015, the first-degree and second-degree bodies of art provided for in the provisions of Article 106 shall cease to work. The social care law. Namely, the Law on the Single Body of Skills foresees that skills in the exercise of social care rights is carried out by the Institute of Skills, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities in such a way as to carry out skills in the first degree procedure in order to exercise the rights of the social care system in the areas of the same institution, which is locally competent towards the residence of a qualified person while the training in a secondary procedure is carried out in order to exercise the rights of the social care system in the central office of that institution. For these reasons, this bill had to be referred to an emergency procedure, it is indeed a matter of technical harmonisation. The proposed amendments and additions clearly define certain provisions which have proved insufficiently clear during the first ten months of application of the Social Care Act, in order to ensure uniform treatment when deciding on the rights of the social care system, thus making it more clear that the payment of financial compensation is made in proportion to the number of days per month for which compensation is recognised if the compensation is not recognised for a whole month. In addition, certain provisions of this proposal for a law shall be compliant with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act and shall be more clearly specified for scholarships for the education of students or students while regular schooling takes place at the level of income for the calculation of personal disability. The proposed amendments will also allow for the application of the Law on a single body of art, and on the other hand, for the sake of legal certainty of citizens, certain provisions will be additionally amended. And finally, the proposed bill, which today is before you, has largely responded to the objectives that we have conducted during its construction, and therefore I call on you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94707	I thank the Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, a respected representative, Nada Murganic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94708	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputies and associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HDZ Club, we can immediately say from the debate, that this draft bill on amendments and additions to the Social Care Act, with the final proposal for a law we cannot support. The Social Care Act in the term of office of this government has been passed three times already. By the end of the term of office, amendments and additions to this law are foreseen for the purpose of introducing a single payment centre for social benefits for which one is raised expensive and does not need credit, and this will be followed by the next points in the debate as a loan from the World Bank. In this regard, the law should be re-changed by 1 July 2015 at the latest, and it speaks in itself about social policy, the development plan by this ministry. This often changes to the Social Care Act, the users of the social care system are even more exposed to uncertainty, frequent changes to rules, administration and many things. We can sort of divide this law into two parts, which is what the deputy said was an improvement in some articles, in fact, one nomotechnical grooming. The first in some way reason why this law is passed is also the harmonisation of the Law on Social Care with the Law on the Single Body of Art, since the Institute of Art and Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities of 1.1 next year should begin with the work of the single body of art within a special organised service and thus take on unfinished items or new art in the proceedings of the competent authorities of the other resistors who have so far trained. As the law was made as it was adopted, it was discussed in the first and second readings, there were proposals given that it was unsettled and we believe that it was not a good basis for the work of the institutions since 1.1. it was discussed by this club and some other clubs were thinking that it should be further completed and that it should go to second reading, but in the 7th month it came into effect but there are no serious assumptions that the Institute of Art and Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities could be in place since there are no sublegal acts. It's still a professional teaming, and we don't know if it's done, and there are a number of items that have to be downloaded from other systems that we're afraid will wait. We believe that most of the items will be from the field of social care, namely about them and we are talking about dealing with a great delay of future persons who have to exercise some rights in the welfare system for the sake of skills, their health status, social work centres will have to send them to the Institute of Arts, when he will start doing this we do not know. Any delay can only be good if it comes to savings from the budget, i.e. on the items of that ministry, but since we know that social welfare users are the ones who have the lowest fees and for them it will be extremely unfavourable. I must remind myself that we are waiting for the methodology of the way in which the art was supposed to be so when we passed the law passed on to the Government of the Republic, and there is no such thing as a series of laws that comply with this law so that there will be a number of users from other resolutions who have one particular uncertainty as well as how the art will be done. We hope that, with certain difficulties at first, this will start to work on the satisfaction of our users. And what else I would kind of point out is why this law was passed, that's what was negatively interpreted in the media. What is also accepted by employees in the welfare system at the very least with a duress, which is Article 29 and 30 of this law, which says how and how they will remain in the employment relationship between the directors who are now and the next year or already when they are appointed, the term of office stands out. And we believe that this is a political staffing for the sole reason that articles are introduced saying that the Centres for Social Labour and Institutions must, after the end of the term of office, offer a contract on the work of a director who is now acting as director and will be given the term of office. So these are directors who were appointed to the 12th majority in 2012 especially those in welfare centres. Since the Social Care Act was adopted in the third month of 2012, which abolished social care services, registered centres were appointed, and new statutes were adopted and competitions were opened for directors. Why am I pointing this out? I don't even have a Croatian Democratic Community club to want anyone to be out of a job no matter when and how they got a job, especially if this job works well and if he's an expert. But that is precisely why, if the law should also have been in place if it corresponds to a professional preparation and if, in that institution, there are also job openings at the social work centre in question. In fact, if these articles remain, this means that after each term of office in institutions and centres, there will remain former directors who may be needed in these institutions and centres and may not be. Perhaps because of the human resources policy and the need for personnel in these institutions and centres, other callings and knowledge may be needed, perhaps perhaps, in direct work with users, which is particularly problematic in social care institutions. Why am I pointing this out? Because when the draft law refers to an assessment, the source of the means to implement this law is then largely given that it is not necessary for the implementation of a law of funds from the state budget and for the start of the work of this body, for the uniform art and now if it is acted under Article 29. 30 will need funds for these new jobs or it will go to the expense of other employees. In particular, because we have a recommendation from the same ministry that for two workers who will eventually leave the institution or the centre one is accepted. So savings have been introduced for someone somewhere and there is no savings if it's political staffing, which was the most common observation when it was written about staffing in the ministry and now it's started on the ground. In this sense, the Croatian Democratic Community club will also make amendments. This ministry is very often boasting of savings, one of the first to apply recession measures or the resolution of deficits in the state budget. And when we compare the fact that in the Republic of Croatia there are 70 centres for social care, perhaps more, with branches and there are also a lot of social care institutions. And if it's to assume there's going to be a shift, it doesn't have to be 100% but it might come in some kind of... Until the shift, the question is how and on whom is it being saved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Are the priorities in this ministry different? I am sorry that this law has failed to correct some irregularities, since these are savings, and we see that it is also for the 2015 budget. 28% of the items on the ministry's budget have been reduced, and I'm afraid these are indications that your savings will be on the users again. We think that in the years in which the recession has been in the country for years, in which we have only over 250 thousand people who have small pensions, below 1500 where long-term employment causes us additional economic problems in families, that the items in the budget from that ministry, so on those fees that go to users should have been increased and that those property censors should have been abandoned because the austerity, rigid measures, reduction of the rights to compensation, reduction of censorship, led to a social picture of society, a particularly bad one which UNICEF's research statistics also spoke of, and I think that these laws should go in that direction, in the first place all the funds are directed if they are working on savings for employees, directed at users, not on staff.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94709	Thank you. We have one replica, dear Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94710	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, in your presentation, you have also touched the technical things that are in line with this law, and this is because of the new Law on the Single Body of Art as a unique list of evaluations... of ability. This emergency law, which has experienced an internet consultation of 16 days, is really a big rush, and it will not be possible anyway because it is only now in the procedure... and consulting on the pages of the Ministry of Defence published amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences with the final proposal of the law and you will not arrive at any time since 01.01. apply a new law because this Law on Rights will not be changed to the rights of defenders to which the single body of art is also applied. So I don't know what the haste and why the emergency procedure and why such a short deadline, as far as we can see only 9 remarks which have not been stated in the application of this law, some have been published on the websites, I think it's too short and that absolutely what we want to achieve is not in the spirit of what trial skills are made about the unique body of art as a unique list of skills and that there will be no need for such a hasty, because the inapplicability of this law is certainly not possible, respected as well as the Law on a single body of art. Experts have spoken, but no one listens to them. Priority is employment, as you said, political....
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94711	The replica corresponds to the respected Nada Murganić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94712	Well, a respected colleague of mine might, it might sound strange, I'd say that it's been a while, a year we've been talking about a unique body of art, that it's been time to do that already when it's been decided and it's been going in that direction with reasons of rationalising better availability to users, savings, etc., finally and passed that law. It was time to put it all in order for the people to say it on healthy feet, but since the 7th month since the Croatian Parliament adopted this law, those rules have not been made and no methodology has been adopted, and as we can see, there is no money since there is even a loan from an international bank where one of the reasons for better establishing the work of the unique body of art. Whether it was hastening or not, if decided, should be rushed, but done as it should be done on 01.01. indeed, the first items already taken in that service and that users get their opinions and opinions and exercise their rights because as we have seen exactly who goes to art, it is not until waiting, it must have had a fat reason and a fat force to address them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94713	The word has now been made by the Deputy Minister, the Honorable Maya Sporish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94714	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[Intruder Stazic: You must be here for a pay phone.]] Well, here's the thing, I've been asking myself questions while you've been saying this about whether there's any reason to actually spray on the ashes, why we're changing the law for the third time. When a lot of work is being done, when big projects are planned, when major reform moves are planned in the system, and when the law has to be done in a technical sense, then, in some way, in our opinion, making the consolidated text of the law in a technically nomotechnical sense, the consequence that is minimal and when it is due to the reforms that have been made, then I think it is excellent. As for political staffing and this provision, I might prefer that another representative who is not from the welfare system commented on it might be easier. You certainly know that the Director's salary at the Social Care Center, depending on the internship, is going somewhere in the amount of about $9,000. For 9,000 kunas at the Social Care Center, and those who work in the system know that it is even lower and lower in social care homes, even lower in wages, it is a very responsible job, a job in which you are every day, which you would say, on the front line. We pulled some great experts out of the system, people who worked in the city's social care offices, otherwise to demystify this story that constantly revolves through the media that we politically excavated all 80 social care centres directors and further their branches. In fact, about 40% of the directors remained the same in the welfare centres as in the previous term. As far as job openings are concerned, yes, these directors will, in accordance with their professional preparation, experience and competences, deploy exactly to their job openings. Free jobs define a rulebook or what we people call systematicization. So if there's a place in the system he's going to deploy to that place, if he's not there, then he's gone. And to calm you down about the methodology, it's over and according to my information in the government's business procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94715	Replications. Dear Hope Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94716	Dear Deputy, you said you were sorry someone in the welfare system said that. I refer to my work experience, my calling, for 35 years I don't read the laws, I don't explain, I don't criticise. I, in my working life and today, still work, enforce these laws. And I don't want any of my colleagues to think that I want the current directors in centres and homes to be out of work, but just because we're public institutions, we have to hire and we need to hire in accordance with the statutes and rules, we and collective agreements know how jobs are employed. The law doesn't say that there will be a job opening, you know that the law is stronger than any sublegal act, but also these days we get exactly from the ministry limiting an increase in employee salaries and if the director needs to decide whether he needs a fifth legal or needs a social worker or... a raiser, what does he do? So the law has ordered it to be employed and it smells like political employment, so much the more we've all had so far, if it's a job opening. Here, so much for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94717	The answer to the line, dear Maya Sporish.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94718	I would just like to comment that the man you're trying to challenge is a business because the socialist is living, the welfare is not being handled, and if you offer him a salary between 8 and 9 thousand kuna, and then, as an additional motivation, you prescribe a provision that after 4 years of mandate if he came out of the system he can go to the street, you have to admit it's not very motivated and can definitely cause negative selection in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94719	Second replica, the esteemed Tinker Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94720	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy, I am interested in letting go of politics and political reasons, if you can answer me specifically and explicitly whether the unique body of art can begin with the work of the Croatian defenders on January 1st 2015, while the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers is in force as it is today? Can you answer that for me?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94721	The answer to this replica, Maya Sporish.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94722	As for the Law on the Single Body of Art, I believe that it can begin on January 1st. As for the amendment of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, I must admit that I am not from the defenders' portfolio and we have in time made sure that what involves skill in the unique body of social care skills, social benefits, social benefits, social benefits, means personal disability and maternity and parental support to discuss today and to vote today. Among other things, the single body of art is not even a body, I mean we were legislators, but it's a body that works in the labour and pension systems. As far as I know, they're about to end. For reasons why the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers is not addressed to this day in the parliamentary procedure...... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94723	My colleagues, my colleagues, we can't do that. Let's stick to the Rules of Procedure. You're out of line, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, you're out, Finish it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94724	The unique body of art if it does not change in this sense in which we are changing the Law on maternity and parental support and the Law on Social Care, if it does not change then I suppose in that part of the part relating to Croatian defenders will not be able to function, but for reasons why it is not done now I cannot enter. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94725	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists-Parties of Work esteemed... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I haven't written it down, but if you've answered the line, then replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94726	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your assistant there wrote that I was the one who raised the line. Next time you'll guess about this... So here's Madam Deputy I asked you how it was that only 16 days ago was this bill on online counseling, and that such haste with it, since the same thing that my colleague Milos respected that the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers, which also concerns changes and complements regarding the unique body of art as a unique list of skills, had just gone into online counseling and was on pages up to 29.12. How you will apply this law and the unique body of art to 1.1 when not all other legal norms are harmonised and will not be, most likely will not be. It's impossible to be. That's one thing. The other thing you yourself are aware of in that discussion about the unique body of art which is nomotechnical now and technical things in this law. The profession made it clear how many percentages of different categories of people can be reporting according to that unique body. So again she said the profession that it is impossible to apply to 7 groups of disabled people in Croatia a single body of art as a single list and in humanisation. And you yourself admitted 60% of the remaining directors. It means that you have 60% of those political or that you think you're from another political option. And it's clear that that's how it's gonna be, and it keeps going. I mean to ensure something that is absolutely not or to pursue something that passes through the law the possibility of regardless of the Labour Act, regardless of all other laws on civil servants, tenants. You continue to pursue that goal to deal politically with employees. That shouldn't be right. We should be mindful of everyone who works in the welfare system that he is professional and quality and does his job well. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94727	The replica matches Deputy Minister Maya Sporish.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94728	Well, here's the thing. According to the code of consultation with the interested public, the deadline for consultations is minimum for 15 days. We gave it 16 days. However, and after that, we received still open online consultation, i.e. it was still open and we continued to receive all the comments despite the fact that we had already been in the government's business procedure, for the government's business procedure to be prepared by law. We haven't received much comment. I don't know if you did, but I have to admit, I don't know if you were involved in that debate. In addition, 15 days for the interested public, I believe that it is not small, especially when it comes to technical and no-technical harmonisation and not the particular scope of the law. I'll do it again, too. As I have already said in the social care system as regards the appointment of a director 40% of the directors remained the same as in the previous term, and that there are no political calls for such protection if a director is supported and that the people who are appointed in this mandate, if they have poor and negative work results, replaces the Administrative Council on the findings of our administrative oversight, or inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94729	We're continuing the club debate. And on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers, the party of work respected Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94730	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished deputies with associates. Well, I have to admit, I didn't mean to leave here, but here I am going to have to start with the debate, or the replicas that my colleagues replicated in your debate. Basically, it's already happening by who knows which times a colleague has painted his words, he doesn't know what he's doing on the right. It doesn't matter now which ministry, but the fact is that we're coming back, and we're going to see more of these cases in today's debates, at least in terms of agenda points, that the ministry within the same government simply isn't in line, or they haven't brought together the materials, so now we're going to have a situation where one law puts another law out of force even though this one in itself would have to be older. I don't know if you're aware that you're going to get into trouble, or the biggest problem will be people who should exercise their rights under that law. You yourself said in the beginning that essentially, these amendments to the law are necessary in order to comply with the Law on the Single Body of Art, with EU regulations, nomotechnical harmonisation, etc. etc. But this, I agree with my predecessor, these are already the third changes, if I am not mistaken for the third amendments and complements, and I must admit that I remained surprised when I read the text of the report on the consultation with the interested public on the draft bill on amendments to the Social Care Act. There's so much reference here to articles and every time there's an explanation why something isn't accepted. The proposed reference is not subject to the draft law amending and supplementing the Social Care Act. I know that it is not, and all the remarks are that they are not in line, or that they do not refer to the articles that are being changed. But when you see how much of this text there is then you see how much trouble there is with this law, or how much parole there is in that law. And I think this announced what the lady mentioned before me this announced fourth amendment that will be, I hope this will all be taken into account and will be. Because they didn't write this, these remarks weren't written by laymen, they weren't written by people who read something boring, so now they're going to write something. This, however, was written by the employees of the Social Care Centre, the attorney general, and thus is seen from the text and ultimately from the way it is written it is seen that it is about the observations of the profession. However, there are different examples. And this really is when I read a little bit I'm not gonna say I'm stuck. So, a proposal that, if I am not mistaken, is the same as one of the centres of social care, we propose a change in the amended Article 52 to enable all parents of a weaker property situation, not just a single parent to recognise the right to compensation for accommodation costs in a student home with the aim of enabling further secondary education for many students and ultimately to increase the general education of citizens. And now the reason why it's not accepted is because of the current financial opportunity of the state budget. I think that answer speaks for itself enough. If he really didn't deserve any other comment, which we can say, in the budget we don't have money for anything that we don't need, it doesn't matter. And the citizens what have they got from this country? The state should be among other things social. What's social security for? I am also using this opportunity to warn about the presentation of the Croatian Patients' Association, which begs patients to be free from paying for the certification of the documentation for art in the notebooks because the costs sometimes go up to more than 1000 kuna. All the findings that someone has who teaches the body of art must be photocopied and verified by a public notary. You can't give the originals, you have to keep them, you need them, all of these finds you have to verify with a public notary. So I think whether that provision is either social or for the purpose of filling not the state but the budget of these very people of the public notaries. With all the cases we have, which we hear every day about the performances one more, this is a drastic blow I'm thinking of just those people who are in big trouble because surely no one goes out there from a whim or to prove some right. He's going out of need, he's going out of need. I hope you'll take into account what the lady has announced next changes and the addition that you're going to take into account all this stuff that I said you're going to take into account because in the end, this is what the profession has written, and I don't think you can say, you can't dispute the justification of these proposals and demands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94731	We're moving on to replicas. First, Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94732	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's a colleague you mentioned at the beginning that the government is acting in a way that the left doesn't know what it's doing right and vice versa. So certainly after the reply we heard from the Deputy Minister, we can indeed confirm that because to the specific question of fellow Members of the millas, will this law be possible from January 1st, she answered the question I believe. That would mean that this government has changed its world-wide direction. Because suddenly she started believing. But that's less important in this case. In this case, it is important that the authorities of the Government are not coordinated enough to make laws at all in a way that they are coordinated, so their adoption must be coordinated in order for the application to begin really on the date when it is provided for in those legislative proposals. So if something is scheduled on January 1st, then it must be applied on January 1st, and not speak I believe. So it's absolutely unacceptable to work this way. And once again about the personneling. Yes, the frame is politically recorded no matter what the pay is, whether it's nine thousand kuna or 15, 25, 3 etc. It's cascaded in all positions, from the lowest to the highest.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94733	The line matches the esteemed Mladen Novak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94734	Thank you very much. I realized, i.e. I wanted to further highlight exactly what you said on the replica of my colleague, Miles, and I agree entirely with that. However, this will cause problems for people on the ground. And in time, at least for what I know, they warned in time about this discrepancy. As much as during the debate, when there was a debate on the Law of Art here, there was talk about it, and I don't think there was a club that didn't participate in that debate and pointed to the problem that was going to happen. However, there was obviously not enough hearing, or even in this case there was no minimum coordination between the two, in this case the two ministries. But I also have to mention this part of the eye, it's not just about this law, but also between the law and this law, that we often have cases of changing the same law three, four, so here's the other day we had a case that one law was 25 times changed and complemented. That says, let's be honest and think back three years, it was known that there was going to be a change of government. They were all sure of that. And if this is a reflection let's just say unpreparedness or simply in itself something's going to happen, something's going to happen. It was not a quality approach to making legal acts that were very important. This part of you that you're talking about political personneling, so the esteemed deputy, I hope she heard herself, she said, and even over 40% of them are left. Well, that's exactly proof that political staffing is on stage.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94735	Time. A new replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94736	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Novak, can write what he wants in this law, but until the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences is changed, Croatian defenders will go to the art of the law. And that's a fact and it's simply something that will re-emerge with Croatian defenders with full rights. However, something is not clear to me, the deputy lady has easily responded that is none of our business, we are the second ministry. When a law is passed, the law is sent to other ministries. Therefore, the Ministry of Defence should give a negative opinion on this law or warn that it cannot be applied to them until that law is amended. This should have been established in government coordination before the government itself, and the second thing the Government's Office of Law simply had to make that observation that the government could not pass such a law or could bring it with different transitional provisions. However, this best speaks of the government's coordination, and as this coordination seems to remember the Law on the abolition of the State Inspectorate. Last week, we discussed the Law on the Communist Economy where it is said that, among other things, the law is changing because of the amendment of the Law on the State Inspectorate. Now, if someone were to take a turn, and if the judiciary were to work on how all the solutions that have been made practically back 11 months should be annulled and someone fat-fired in the pocket because of negligence and sloppyness. Therefore, this law tangs extremely difficult human fates and extremely sensitive social groups. And that's exactly why he shouldn't be doing what's going on, that's why.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94737	The replica matches the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94738	Thank you. I'll start at the end of this replica of yours. You mentioned the State Inspectorate Act, that is, when the State Inspectorate was abolished. And now look at another absurd that we had on that occasion. That the inspectors who were supposed to control the employment contracts of employees in state firms or in general in companies for two months were without any employment contracts and you are now creating and with them, creating a certain amount of uncertainty, fear, and I don't know what not, and on the other hand, you expect these same people to react on the ground to implement acts brought by the state. As for the first part about the Croatian defenders. I absolutely agree and that is, we also mentioned this by your club and we simply until there is no change to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders there is nothing else that can be done on this matter, or a single body of art. Now, when we have this situation that we have, that you have a defense protest at the same time, I can't just realize that it's so easy to answer. I understand, ma'am, you're in the position in which you are, but we're talking about the complete government, the government's conduct. It's just incomprehensible to me that it's so easy in a situation like this that it's just being found out, but we've done our job, it's not the other ones. For Croatian defenders, for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia it is one government, there is no ministry this or that, but it is one government. And now to allow some kind of vacuum, I don't know who that was meant to be except that there's a possibility that you could cause further dissatisfaction with that particular population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94739	And the third replica, the distinguished Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94740	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Comrade Novak, I agree with you, and this is not the first case and so is an example of non-coordination between the ministry. And I don't know why there are coordinations with the government that should pass the laws before they come and agree, of course, with the ministry's views before they come to the government's session. And there is no dilemma that Croatian defenders will not be able to apply the Law on the Single Body of Art until the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences is amended. And that's better at this point, especially in the long run, not to talk. And then we wonder why Croatian defenders protest? This is precisely the kind of thing and the kind of government policy that also applies to Croatian defenders. They themselves point out that it is not a matter of material rights but simply in such provisions that lead to misunderstandings in that communication or rather in non-communication between the Government and Croatian defenders. I think, as I said, it is better that this provision on the unique body of art never applies to Croatian defenders, and when it comes to Croatian defenders with that argument that we pointed out when debated and the law itself remains an existing way of art for Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94741	The line matches the esteemed Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94742	Is thank you very much. I agree with what you said and I only appeal that the real demands of Croatian defenders remain in line with what they were. I hope they won't be politicized needlessly and unfortunately used in what they're actually not, they're not running. On the other hand, I'm not quite sure if this is the ministry when it proposed a law like this, whether it was aware that let's say indirectly it could only further cause a revolution with these people and now say look, we did our part of the work we're not responsible for what others are doing. That discrepancy, that fact, I don't know if it's true, whether it's true, that, say, the defence minister asked for a year or how long it said he was looking for a conversation with some long ministers in the same government. It's real, it gives you such a bad picture you just get the impression that people sitting in that government just don't care about the real problems of people on the ground and then when you experience the kind of answer that the Prime Minister gave on the current morning what else to think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94743	We're continuing the club debate. The positions of the HSU club will be presented by respected Ljiljana Cvetovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94744	Dear Vice President, respected deputies with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Welfare aims to further simplify and speed up the process of exercising the rights under the social care system, since certain provisions of the law in force since 1.1.2014 have been shown in practice to be unclear or undefined. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Care clearly defines the beginning of the right to compensation for the personal needs of the users of the accommodation, i.e. the right to the compensation in question is recognised on the day of the start of the use of the accommodation or organised housing. It shall also be clearly defined and the time from which the right to compensation for accommodation costs in the student home begins, and it shall be determined that the law in question is recognised from the date of initiation of the procedure for the recognition of the right. It is also determined that the fees for accommodation costs in the dormitory are paid monthly. We point out that the proposal significantly simplifies the process of exercise of rights and makes it clear and unequivocal. Article 25 of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act also makes it clear that the units of local self-government and the city of Zagreb decide by means of a decision on the recognition of the right to compensation for the costs of housing or units of the regional self-government and the city of Zagreb on the recognition of the right to compensation for heating costs. The proposed additions to the already existing provisions achieve a uniform practice in the work or implementation of laws by the competent authorities. Furthermore, the provisions of the laws governing the status of director of home care have been updated, it is found that the person appointed by the director of the home social care who is the founder of the Republic of Croatia or the unit of local or regional self-government at the end of the term of office if he is not re-appointed to the director of the home is obliged to offer contracts for work for tasks for which he meets the conditions. In addition to that, provisions on the provision of social services as part of the shelter and accommodation for homeless persons are defined more precisely. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law shall ensure uniform application of the Law and achieve legal certainty for users of certain rights and services in the social care system. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSU, I request clarification from the Ministry on the issue of equalising social service providers in payment of the price under privileged conditions for the use of electricity, gas and other energy products, which is not subject to the final draft of the law. The draft amending and supplementing the Law on Social Welfare was prescribed to replace the use of electricity, gas and other energy products in Article 191. This article should therefore read: "the establishment of social care and other legal persons, i.e. those providing social services, as well as natural persons professionally carrying out the activity of social care, are equated with households in paying the price under privileged conditions for the use of el.engia, gas and other water supply and disposal energy and other utility services, and for the payment of compensation for the RTV tax. In the light of the draft, it was proposed to amend Article 191.zacon for the reason that the omak dropped provisions that existed in the earlier applicable Social Care Act, according to which social services providers were considered households to pay the price of electricity, gas and other energy at preferential prices. In the final draft of the law, the proposed supplement has been dropped again, and we would like to ask for an explanation of the applicant. The proposal is based on the fact that service providers referred to in Article 191 of the Social Services provide socially sensitive groups and is in the national interest to make services available to each citizen as necessary. High prices affect unsuitably meeting the need for social services, thus creating mistrust in the social care system, especially in private service providers, which creates a commitment to the national and local level to respond to the needs of citizens by investing financial resources from the budget. The club of representatives of HSU will support the adoption of the law on amendments and additions to the Social Care Act with the hope that the applicant will comply with our proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94745	Thank you. The replica was reported by a respected representative, Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94746	Thank you very much. I have to say that you offered me your argument that the Energy Act was intended to pass a rule on endangered households, which would prescribe a minimum, or some censorship precisely related to this topic that you mentioned about the supply of electricity and gas supply. When the debate was on the law and it has been for more than a year then it was said that the act was in the final phase, that it was being coordinated and that the government would soon pass it. However, more than a year and a day have passed since then, at least as far as I know, such a thing has not been brought. It's just like a contribution to this debate of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94747	The replica corresponds to the respected Ljiljana Cvetovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94748	In my debate, I was merely referring to this article in 191 which stated that social care institutions and other legal persons, i.e. craftsmen providing social services and persons professionally carrying out social care activities, were equally equal in households to pay the price under privileged conditions for the use of water supply and disposal and other utility services and to the payment of compensation for the tv tax. And that's why in our debate, we've been looking for an explanation of the applicant why this article is not in line now. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94749	A deputy minister, a respected Maya Sporish, came forward. Here's to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94750	Thank you very much. You're right, that's how it used to be called electricity and gas, that's how energy was accounted for in welfare institutions under the same tariff principle, or in the same tariff class as households, but so it can't be anymore. Namely, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth has made a request to the Ministry of Economy since we passed the law last fall, we have sent them a proposal that social care institutions in energy calculation mean gas and electricity to be in the same tariff class as the household. The proposal was rejected by reason of the fact that the energy in the category of any other goods and that they are subject to the competition and that they cannot be in the category of privileged energy purchaser i.e. Households are also explained by EU directives, I have there, I can specifically tell you, I think it is a work, a specific number of directives and the name of a directive. In order to prevent high accounts, we in the ministry that social welfare homes could have due to the classification in this payment development, the ministry began with a process of uniting public procurement of the opinion of the Ministry of Economy and what it advised us, meaning united public procurement of energy, which would make the price of home as an end-user lower. And just for a moment, let me quote more from the opinion of the Ministry of Economy: on our proposal, they say: "This proposal for the provision in question is unacceptable in accordance with existing energy legislation because the law on the electricity market and the law on the gas market do not know the institutions of privileged conditions for electricity and gas. In fact, for electricity and gas in force are market rules and can only be talked about market prices. If the problem with electricity and gas deals is, we suggest that Article 22 be used. The Energy Act, which provides unique procurement for institutions. This Ministry of Economy is that the introduction of the proposed provision in Article 36 of the Law could lead to misunderstandings in the interpretation of the provision in question by energy operators operating in accordance with the energy regulations of the Republic of Croatia that are in line with European legislation. Because privileged conditions are not permitted in this respect with regard to the price of energy on the market.". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94751	Thank you. The replica was answered by the esteemed Mladen Novak, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94752	Thank you very much. Well, I have to remind you or I missed it, but there's a lot of us in the assembly, so I'd like someone to correct me if that's not true, the Gas Market Act didn't get enough votes and that provision that the Ministry of Economy, which you mentioned earlier, was not deleted from that law even though it was a proposal from the Ministry of the Economy to delete that provision from the Gas Market Act. So it's not exactly in line with this answer they gave you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94753	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected representative, Ivana Posavec Krivec, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94754	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, Deputy Minister with my associates. Here is the SDP Club, which welcomes the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act. This is important to say at the very beginning even though we talked about the Law on Social Welfare only a year ago he entered into force on 1 January of this year and we then considered the adoption of this law a fairer and more transparent system. And we at the SDP club are confident that we are such a more transparent and fairer system and we have ensured that the law is passed but we are also aware that legal solutions should be changed, that they should be complemented, that they should be repaired, that they should be harmonised with new directives, new obligations or new laws that we are passing in the meantime. So today we are actually discussing the targeted amendments to the applicable law which, these amendments, come from the entry into force of the Law on the Single Body of Arts since July of this year. At the same time, we are also discussing better progress on some of the segments of the law itself after 9 months of law enforcement in practice. It is therefore important to stress that the Law on the Single Body of Arts also establishes a single body of art as an independent and independent body of the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. This has become the competent authority for the implementation of skills in the field of social care and in many other areas, such as pension insurance, professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, birth and parental support rights, protection of war and civilian victims, and for the purpose of the exercise of rights in other areas where rights are exercised on the basis of findings and opinions of the body of art. We also know that so far, the work of art in the process of exercising the right under the Law on Social Welfare has been carried out in the first degree by the bodies of art established by the Minister, of course we are talking about the Minister responsible for Social Welfare Affairs and, in the second degree, the Ministry of Social Welfare Affairs. Therefore, in the SDP club, we consider it necessary, justified, harmonising the provisions of the Social Care Act with the Law on the Single Body of Art. Moreover, since 1 January 2015, the Institute for Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities is obliged to ensure the start of work of the unique body of art and to take over all those, as colleagues and colleagues have already said here, unfinished articulation objects in all proceedings from different competent bodies of art. We therefore believe that the justification of the emergency procedure is also resolved because we are almost a month ahead of us until the very realization and the need to implement exactly this body, and we believe that the right moment is at which we are discussing amendments and additions to this law. It was also necessary to establish, before adopting a solution to social care rights, facts relating to the health situation as a condition for the recognition of the right and it is necessary to harmonise the provisions of the Social Care Act in a way that the Centre for Social Care should request the findings and opinions of the Institute of Skills. It is important for us at the SDP club to point out that the amendments and additions to this law will contribute to the removal of doubts and the application of certain provisions observed in the application of the law. By bringing these amendments to the laws, i.e. the amendments we make to these amendments directly refer to centres for social care, to the Institute of Skills, professional rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, and directly to users of the rights in the social care system, persons with disabilities, children with developmental difficulties, and we believe that it is necessary in parallel with the adoption of this law, with its application, to work on various forms of education and information for all possible users of the system. I have already said that we believe that the urgency of this law is justified, and there are also several other important elements that make these amendments to the law. So exclusively, it's not the normative alignment of two regulations related to the beginning of the work of the unique body of art, but there are also some other elements that are equally important to mention here. Certainly, the Social Care Act, meaning the law that has been in force here is now almost 11 months, in social care, users have received a system in which it is simpler to apply, not only simpler but faster, in which they are better targeted. We know very well that we had a system through which the money and help leak. This law, which has been in force for almost a year and has avoided such things, no more duplication of rights and help, we have better control. A greater range of services in the community is being developed, and conditions for staying in social care institutions are improving. But as we have said, there is also the possibility of further simplification of the process, the exercise of rights in the welfare system. We believe that the right system would be faster and easier to remove and individual ambiguities. For this reason, he also welcomed solutions that enable the exercise of rights and make them faster and simpler. In any case, it is the fact that this law will remove some indetermination, that it will become clearer and fully applicable. The law will define the moment from which the exercise of the right to compensation for the personal needs of the users of accommodation, the right to compensation for accommodation expenses in the student home, and the right to the service of accommodation, stay or organised housing, and thus to even the practice of the social care centre in the recognition of the rights mentioned. As it says in our reasoning of this law, the law more precisely defines provisions on the provision of social services as part of the shelter and accommodation for homeless women, and in that part we are in line with European directives and ultimately prescribe payment of monetary fees to a proportion of the number of days per month for which the fee is recognised, and not until now as for the whole month. In the end, when we evaluate everything, when we put everything into a cup, we consider the SDP club, and as freely as I can say and believe that to achieve the goal, and the goal is to trust all of us with a more expensive quality law enforcement, it is necessary to connect the work of a more body of state administration. First of all, here we think of the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities with Social Care Centres. The SDP club believes in man, believes in justice, social sensitivity and solidarity. We believe in these basic postulates, and all these provisions are embellished precisely by the Social Care Act that we discussed a year ago and in these changes that we try to do even better, come to a better statement, make it simpler and more precise. And, of course, for these reasons, we will support all these changes and believe that the law will fully live in front of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94755	Thank you. We have one replica. Dear Hope Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94756	Dear fellow MPs, Posavec Krivec, I have really listened very carefully to your debate, and with a large part of this debate I can fully agree with. However, I would perhaps like you to explain to me a part of perhaps this debate in which you mentioned that we know that until the adoption of this law that came into force from 1.1.2014, the money in social benefits was leaking. More specifically, do you say that you are socially sensitive and that you believe in man, believe in the help of so-called a small person or user of the social care system. Do you think that if he received perhaps from the local heating unit and used perhaps even social assistance that this is such a terrible thing to talk about in the system and all the users and those who enable them in their work to make their rights known in such a way, i.e. the revision of the Zagreb one centre said that everything from zero to half and up to one percent was possible for some may have been irregularities. And I know social work centres that after the revision had 100% proper procedures and properly issued solutions to achieve social compensation. And we're talking about one of those great precision savings, and you haven't looked back on this personneling thing in a single word. That's what I want to know what the SDP club thinks about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94757	Replication response, respected Ivana Posavec Guilty.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94758	Thank you, dear Vice President. Thank you, colleagues, for reminding me that I did not look back on an important part of the debate. This is certainly part of the professional work at social care centres. This very professional work is the basis for working with users is very sensitive and for professionals who work in centres creates certain difficulties in their private life. One of the reasons we look at it that way can also be to keep them alone through these measures where we confirm that we are socially sensitive, where we confirm that people, in order to do quality, precise and dedicated work, often have to make no easy and unpopular decisions. It is for this reason that they should be protected after four years of their term of office and should be allowed to continue to work professionally at the Social Care Centre exactly the one for which they are most professional. With these intensities, there have been changes to the articles in this law, not as you try to input some kind of political personnel. And when we talk about money leaking out of the system it's very clear and very simple evidence, because we just remember the property censorship and the way that property censorship was shown, how it was used and the situations that we had. I am as the head of the local self-government unit right through the measures and the social programme and 13 new measures have shown and proved the social sensitivity of the units where the SDP is able to behave. And we've shown that we can upgrade, not break the measures and still burn.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94759	We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the HDSSB club, the esteemed Boro Grubisic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94760	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister with assistants and assistants so there will be no discrimination. We have before us the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Welfare with the final proposal for a law. Now, here we've heard all kinds of grades, phrases, etc. What I personally see and what I know from practice is that when people go to a medical committee or a single body of art as they're going to be called from now on, then you need medical documentation that applies, release letters check with a public notary to make it credible. Of course, the minimum is 48 and a half kuna for each sample, so if you need 4 or 5 specialists, then count on how much it amounts, which is going to the commission or commission or whatever you want a first degree which, therefore, which is only in the first degree of this case and which makes any decision. So it's about people we put into sensitive social groups and 200 or 250 and 300, and sometimes that goes up to 1000 kuna costs mean a lot. It is said here that the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers has not been harmonised, so there has been no coordination of this Law on Social Care, and in connection with the formation of a single body of art. I don't know at this modern time we mention information here. There's a lot of money being invested in information and connecting how to say so. links etc. where, very easily, every ministry would be able to tap into the status of another ministry, for every man in any one of the records, data may be found. But this is a specific case where there are two ministries in the same building, so two ministers can come and agree on one of the floors and agree on everything regarding a single body of art or an ununited body of art. One for the defenders and one for the defenders. I'm not against being a single body of art, so someone doesn't get me wrong, but I don't understand that discrepancy in the agreement between the two ministries of the same government. So it's not two governments, half one ministry belongs to one and the other. It is said that this law will lead to transparency and justice. That word of righteousness after five years seems a little corny to me. And as we move on, it's more and more that word, we'd better not mention it. Because it has no role, nor is it justifiable to use the word righteously in this society. That's my assessment and evaluation. So don't get me wrong again. What does that mean, justice? I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna show the assistant minister a letter, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, uh, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, uh, I'm gonna, uh, I'm gonna, uh, uh, I'm gonna, uh, uh, I'm gonna, uh, uh, uh, I'm gonna, uh, I'm gonna, uh, I'm gonna, uh, I'm gonna, uh, I'm gonna, uh, I'm gonna, uh, uh, I'm gonna, uh, uh, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, uh, uh, I'm gonna, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, I'm gonna, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, I'm gonna, I'm gonna, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, I just like, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, I And that here's the three-year process, and it's about, so I got permission to say the name and last name, so about Dragan Matic, Frankopanska 8, Djulovac, to exercise the right of the parent. In Daruvar, the committee decided positively on the basis of the documentation. In Zagreb, the ministry said it was old documentation and needed new documentation. So he went back to Daruvar but only after a year of looking for documentation from all specialists, from otorinolaringologists, ophthalmologists, educators, I don't know who not all of them. So the Daruvar commission decided again in the same way as the first time that the ministry would abolish it again. I don't know, there's a reason why it's, and yes, it says it's a heavy retardation, not a heavy one. It's just because of that word that's heavy and heavy, that's why the adjective isn't approved by the parent. It's not heavy, it's heavy retardation, it's not the right of care. In order for him to take a step towards the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, the parent is, in fact, the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia, where after two years he won the administrative dispute. But now, the point is that he can apply it only from the ruling of the Administrative Court, not from the day he applied for a guardian two, three years ago. I'll give you Madam Deputy, I've also given the assistant minister this case, the gentleman has five children, among other things, he writes this situation in the family and all so that I don't spend time on individual cases. That's what the body of the Ministry of Social Policy's art is doing or whatever it's called. I hope that the unique body of art that we have talked about here and that starts with the work and operation of January 1st 2015 will be both more exact and fairer than perhaps this when there are different bodies of articulation in the Republic of Croatia. It is said here that it is fair that it is no longer just monetary incomes that decide on social status but also property censorship. I don't know how this property censorship is determined. Is that in the form of some kind of property? But you can neither eat nor pay a child's way to school nor buy him a pair of shoes, nor buy him a jacket or a shoe or anything. And the snail has a house, our people say, let alone a man have a house. But if it doesn't work, if no one does, if that's the kind of situation where a lot of kids are in vain, then a house. His censorship and his condition are socially poor, catastrophic. He may have some kind of house or house, a trailer, whatever you want, or those who live in Gunja in these containers, but he doesn't have the contents of the money, he can't give anything to his children. And now here's what's fair is that they don't decide on social status just monetary incomes and property censorship. What's it worth to me to have a whole highway or I don't know a road like that if you don't have anything from it? You can't make any income. But good. So, since you try, I say try, and since every government changes this law however it comes to order. This is where we heard from HDZ MPs and also from Labour that the law is changing as the government arrives. So here, in the last year of the term of office, she tried to make a law, to arrange this social space of the Republic of Croatia, to bring together four former benefits, so for the unemployed, support for maintenance, supplies derived from the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence and the Law on the Protection of War II and Civil Disabilities. So that's one shot. I'm not saying that it's not good and that it's trying to bring order and that it's exactly what part of the social service someone gets any support in, so that it's united and there's no abuse. That's good, I say hello. But the fact that this law is restrictive, not thrifty but maximum restrictive and depends on it is very, very high correlation with the situation in the Republic of Croatia with the financial situation of the Croatian state is quite certain and quite certain. I know that there should be no money to waste, thank God no one is asking for it, but it seems to me that a little bit on these mainly on those, on the Croatian defenders who went from the Ministry of the Croatian Defence to the Ministry of Social Policy, and now they have 1098 kuna, now they have 800 or 850 kuna. There, many of them were also broken or broken by a car, but apparently there are political spears. And we all know exactly what this is about. For this reason, because of my good intentions to settle, so I listened to the minister in my own time or at times, where she said she would be arranged, that she knew exactly how much in social cases anyone receives, from which place, etc. And that's good, but in this way you do maximum restrictions, and then you load more people to verify documents with the public notebook and social cases are spending money, so eventually there's always a duplicate of the release letter. You can easily check the hospital's release letter, whether it's forgeries, or as someone says forgeries, or not forgeries. There are a number of ways to check everything together as well as the task at the end of the state and the one who receives the documentation. The HDSSB club is going to take these here contradictions that I've put out. In certain segments the law is both good and written and in good faith and intent, but in some parts it does not bring good things, will be restrained on this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94761	We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94762	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here today, a number of times a comment has been made, which is why we are actually changing this law very quickly. However, I can say that this is good because we strive to do better. Because if something's good, it can always be better. And that's one proactive policy. Otherwise, social policy when we look at it is the responsibility of all of us, the responsibility of the state and all of us is that the user needs to get a good system in which the application will be made as simple as possible and faster as possible, in which it will be better focused on those who really need it. And also, to make as much control as possible. The Social Care Act entered in 1.1.2014, which actually introduced a series of newspapers into the field of social care. The law introduced new criteria for the achievement of social benefits, social services, also made it possible to establish standards for the quality of social services, as well as conditions for the non-institutional or deinstitutionalisation of social care systems. In the first 9 months when you look, not in the first 9 months but now, but after a year, you can see that significant shifts have been achieved and that those objectives have been achieved and that is to simplify the process of exercising rights in the social care system, of course greater transparency, or we can say in one word that the established structure was still very needed throughout the social care system. The structure was introduced in cash fees, in social services, in status changes. Of course, a kind of justice has been introduced into the system of social welfare at a higher level, but we must also strive for the following changes and additions to an even better one. When you look at it, when you listen to conversations actually from talking to social workers then it's really visible what he's passed the new Social Care Act and then we actually see all those advantages that are. I'm not a social worker, but from conversations and conversations with them, then you can actually see the application of a law that has brought good. As far as this new part is concerned, which has been brought new with these amendments and additions, namely, the provisions that have been in force and which have been adopted, they are quite broadly written. However, in order not to have doubts then it was actually introduced some kind of newspaper, the targeted newspaper, did not at all, was widely passed in that law and now actually targeted changes happened. For example, it is necessary and here is actually defined and a clearer moment from which the right to compensation for the personal needs of the users of the accommodation, then the right to compensation for accommodation costs in the dormitory, then the right to accommodation, stay and arrange accommodation services. It is also more clearly defined by the payment of cash charges and by the proportion of the number of days per month for which compensation is recognised if the fee is not recognised for the whole month. I must also stress here that in July 2014 the Law on the Single Body of Art which is prescribed that, for the purpose of achieving the right of the area of social care of pensions, we have heard today from other laws on professional rehabilitation, etc. that all of this is carried out by a single body of art as one unit of the establishment unit of the institution. In accordance with the Law on the Single Body of Arts on 1 January 2015, the first-degree and second-degree bodies of art provided for by the current Social Care Act shall cease to work. The first degree artisan goes from the local self-government unit, and the second level goes to a higher level. Therefore, I can conclude that this change has been targeted, this amendment of the law and I keep on holding on to what is good that we should strive for the better. So changing the Social Care Act can only be positive for us because we have to bring the end-user... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94763	She's a colleague of Maria Ilic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94764	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Deputy Minister with Associates. On the basis of the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Social Care Act with the Final Proposal of the Law, it would say that it does not offer an important paper because it has not been observed that any of the rights listed and abolished, which would, for example, encourage and launch marginalised groups in the social care system, resulting in a positive and productive impact of the same on the labour market. So I'd say this is more law-coordination based, I don't know 11 months of law enforcement. So guaranteed rights are not abolished, but there remain problems of property censorship, real estate records and incentives for work, and imagined home reform or state-owned institutions. The proposed normative solution in the given text indicates that, let's say, one more clear determination of the rights of those social groups that, to be misunderstood by someone, who only spends budget funds without having an obligation as a counterweight of acquired rights. If the sole obligation of the user is guaranteed a minimum fee to regularly apply to the Employment Service or to respond to a call for review of the procedure, then it is no wonder that there are users in the centre who, I say, use this status from the first day of their lives, and now they are already 40 years older and, of course, without any day of work. Determination of new facts that are important for acquired rights is often a very demanding job. The programs or applications used by the centres are missing, connected with other services such as courts, tax, home offices and others unsatisfactory, and happens to find out that users have emigrated to other countries such as we have a case in our county, died or concluded marriage, changed residence or residence, issued power to receive postal records because they are in prison or receive maternity benefits without delivering a solution to the centre etc. It is common for singles and entire families to go abroad for the purpose of obtaining income that is the work on seasonal jobs most often in agriculture and catering, and the provision of social services to older and powerless persons, as well as babysitting and the like, without even applying to the centre. We believe that their stay for more than 60 days abroad does not naturally have a tourist mark or a visit to close relatives. Generally, in such cases, users go to work to make a profit that is very important for our occasions. Another example, and I said to the Osijek-Baranja County, which lasts for more than three years, is an extremely large number of departures to Canada and Ireland, and almost all of these families were beneficiaries of one of the rights of the social care system. During the month of September and October of this year, these families are returning from abroad because they did not get a work permit, again with requests to be granted a minimum fee and since during their stay in Canada they were working or in any other country on the basis of an interview with applicants. The Centre’s professional staff cannot determine the amount of revenue achieved, and there is no way of obtaining proven documentation. The HSU Club proposed the addition of Article 5i to the amendment. Furthermore, in conversations with representatives of institutions and family homes, our social workers or social welfare leaders often hear complaints about expenditures on the name of TV and radio subscriptions. How individual private institutions have their own emergency vehicles, the HRT incasators have to charge radio subscription for the device installed in the vehicle. Since TV and radio programs monitored in these institutions have primarily a therapeutic feature because users gather in living rooms where they monitor their favorite series or some other type of programme, we hold that the ministry should have an understanding and reaction and free of payment of the tv tax. In order to meet the current needs of users who are in the social care system, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth must offer a standard solution which, apart from users of the right under this law, all current and future social service providers would stimulate and encourage them to raise quality standards. We also believe that a significant improvement in the functioning of the system would occur by introducing some measures such as limiting the maximum amount of minimum compensation guaranteed, in particular the introduction of compulsory, socially beneficial work that we hold very necessary. Notes on the real estate of each accommodation user and user guaranteed minimum fees. Reduction of administration, close co-operation between centres and local communities. And in the end, I would say that this time I appeal to a respected minister, although she is gone, but here is the deputy for you to take measures within your natural authority that appeal procedures under first-degree solutions do not last for up to two years. That is to say, your services consistently apply the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94765	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94766	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Care Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 739. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club and the HSU Representatives' Club. Representatives of the promoter, respected Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth Maja Sporish. We're going to the HDZ Representatives Club, Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94767	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. The legislator considers that giving the proposed text unnecessarily necessary given that the text of the bill in that article makes it absolutely clear that it is the jobs that are systemised in the establishment, and at that point they are empty.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94768	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment of the Club of Representatives, Honored Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94769	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Deputy Minister, that is not the case in the law, but it will come to a situation if the director of the former is not appointed, and there is no job, you must provide it, create a new job. This is contrary to Article 212. The Social Care Act, which is an additional burden on the state budget, can theoretically happen to us that after ten years, we have a deck of former directors for whom jobs were opened, and they did not exist the moment he stopped being the director. Therefore, only with this formulation proposed in the amendment to add the word "free job" is it ensured that no new jobs are opened, that no new employment is carried out because, as we have the Office of the former president, so it will also be rented, so we have the Office of the former Director at the Centre for Social Care. However, I repeat that this is contrary to Article 212. The social care law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94770	Are you asking for a vote from a respected colleague? Please vote on Amendment number 1 of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? Please, the vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. Dear Deputy Minister, Amendment number two of the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94771	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94772	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, dear John Schuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94773	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Deputy, it is impossible for you to have a job available at the time when the Director is out of office, which corresponds to his professional preparation and the conditions on which he could operate. This means that he kept that job to himself, which is contrary to morale, law and everything else, because at a time when we in the state are talking about reducing the number of employees, that it is necessary to optimalize, that simply the cost of employees should be reduced, we here publicly admit that we will have an open job which the future director is not elected. So that's something that's simply inadmissible, simply contrary to all this which, let me put it this way, declares this government at the moment, without saying how contrary it is to what the Croatian opposition is saying. Therefore, Mr. President, I demand a vote. This is another article 29 and Article 30 to arrest party people, i.e. that people who are appointed simply cannot be removed from the system but... in the system can provide a nice job with a nice salary, while taking care of people who receive very small social benefits and who, unfortunately for this or that reason, find themselves on the sidelines of society, therefore demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94774	Thank you very much. Please vote on amendment number 2 of the HDZ Clubs which the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that he has not received the necessary majority of this amendment. We are going to the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HSU, to Article 5 of the esteemed Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94775	The amendment is not accepted. The applicant considers that accepting such a proposal would discriminate against users on the basis of which they receive income from the basis of work on public works organised by the unit of local, regional self-government or income, and achieve heights on another basis, e.g. Retirement of work and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94776	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment of the HSU Club, Honored Representative Marija Ilic, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94777	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy. Well, the HSU club believes that it is possible to change this article and since the amendment is not accepted by the government, any further explanation is too much to ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94778	Please vote on the amendment to the HSU's Club of Representatives which the government does not accept. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I'm determining he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes are 81 votes for, 1 vote abstention and 33 votes against the amendment law and additions of the Social Care Act in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94779	We'll vote on the bill later. - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on maternity and parental support, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 743; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the reports at the session. Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth Maja Sporiš will explain the introduction of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94780	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. The proposed law amending the Law on maternity and parental support shall comply with the provisions of the Law relating to the conduct of the competent authority for the exercise of the right to maternity and parental support and, again, under the Law on the Single Body of Art. The adoption of this law will allow for, in accordance with the intensities laid down in the Law on the Single Body of Art, from 1 January 2015 on skills in the exercise of the right under the Law on maternity and parental assistance, to be carried out by the Institute of Education, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, with a view to the exercise of the rights laid down in the Law on Child and Parental Assistance, as well as in the areaal establishment units of the Institute of Skills, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, locally competent towards the residence of a person who is an expert while the training in a secondary procedure is carried out in order to exercise the right of maternity and parental support in the central office office office. The proposed law further equalises the right of adopters of twins and adoptors who at the same time adopt more children with the rights of employees and self-employed parents in the part relating to parental leave. In this respect, it should be noted that Article 36(3) is a provision. The Law on maternity and parental support fully complies with the provisions of Directive 2010/18 of 9 March 2010 implementing the Revised Framework Agreement on parental leave and what I have presented is precisely that content. The proposed law contributes to the achievement of the necessary assumptions for the start of the work of the single body of art as the establishment unit of the institute in accordance with the Law on a single body of art. Also, by equating the rights of twins and adoptors who simultaneously adopt more children with all the rights of employees and self-employed parents in the part relating to parental leave, the principle of equality of all citizens before the law is fulfilled and the rights of biological parents and adoptive parents are fully equalised. Following all of this, I call on you to support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94781	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Nada Murganic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94782	I would like to thank the esteemed vice presidents of the Croatian Parliament, deputy ministers and associates, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. This amendment, this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on maternity and parental support with the Final Proposal of the Law, is indeed short, so probably my debate will be proportionate to the length of that law. As the pronoun said in the introduction only a few articles, the 4th article speaks of the entry into force of the law in question, and this first three talks, or is in line with the Law on the Law on the Single Body of Art, which was adopted in July of this year. There has been a lot of talk about this law, a lot of praise, and criticism related to compliance with the Law on maternity and parental support is in the part where parents or children with developmental difficulties will address themselves in order to exercise their rights under this law to the service of a single body of art. And what is also certainly positive is that it is in line with the European Union, that is, with directives aimed at equating the duration of adoption leave of an employee adoptive and self-employed adoptive person, regardless of the age of the adopted child, the duration of adoption is also equalised. So in that part, we really don't have anything to say and object to, and we think this should definitely be supported. However, the name of the law itself is associated with something else, and it may also be an opportunity to burn down on the fact that the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth should and has missed the opportunity to develop and propose a system of family policy and social security that would protect motherhood more strongly, encourages birth and that it could be even better coordinated professional and family life since this is extremely important. For three years, the government of the Kukuriku coalition has been in power and no national population and family policy has been proposed, and the latest adopted by the HDZ government in 2006 was worth until 2012. She got good results like that, in '12. The new national population policy had to be adopted for years. And why does it matter? It is important for us to witness that the State Statistics Institute serves us almost every year the data in which we fall, in which we have a negative natural growth of our population. The Republic of Croatia is facing a demographic breakdown and this will be reflected and will reflect on those key systems in the country, both in pension and in health and social, without talking about how it will affect the economic and educational system. Demographic changes are needed and this is not possible without a population policy that will also bring demographic revitalisation. The state certainly also speaks of this law, that is, the fundamental law that was previously adopted, where motherhood is protected, where newborns are protected, where it encourages or facilitates the quality of raising a child, where rights are regulated through the law independently even on working legal status. We now see that even all those who are legally caring for the child will also be equalized. We also have money, not only time support and fees, but also money. In fact, through income tax, through other single aid, especially local self-government units have adopted and put all this together in programmes aimed at fostering parenting, encouraging at the end of birth, increasing birth. But this year we never had less, or in 2013 never less children, or ever more divorces of marriages. In 2013 according to the State Statistics Institute, 39 939 children were born, the number of dead of 50 386 we are in a downturn with a population of 10 447 people and we think it was one of the lowest number of children born in 2003, again for the authorities of the SDP when the number of children born was 39668. We think that this is certainly the responsibility of this government to work on both national family policy and to adopt, these days in Parliament we have had a number of strategies, I think it is time to adopt a demographic strategy because indeed the future of our Republic's population depends on how, and lastly, we will approach it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94783	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94784	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Murganic, you said Croatia is ahead of a demographic breakdown. It has already broken demographically, it has been completely broken and that this government has failed to commit, indemnity, those resources that Croatia has for these three years led to a large number of young people in a fertilised age, who, in fact, let me say in some way "responsible" for the demographic picture and the repair of the demographic picture of Croatia gone to those countries that put us in debt slavery. So from a country that is in debt slavery to Minister Lalovac as he said, so the Minister of Finance, therefore, does not remain young people in that country but goes to countries that keep us in debt slavery and, in fact, Croatia is pushed deeper into debt slavery and deeper into demographic breakdown. What's next? A change in the structure of the population in these areas. I don't want to say that this is the goal of this government, but when we look at all the moves it makes, it seems to me that some internationalization of Croatia is in action. The strategy, the demographic strategy cannot be done without the development of the economy and economic strategy. Therefore, this number of 39939 newborns in the Republic of Croatia in 2013 even for such an economic and economic situation is not so bad. Because in Croatia it is born on average whether the SDP or HDZ government is from 39 to 42000 children.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94785	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Nada Murganic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94786	I thank the esteemed vice president, dear colleague. Yes, Croatia is in a demographic breakdown. We talk about ageing the population all the time. We have a county that has over 20% share of the older population of 65 years in a total population and certainly that represents what I highlighted the problem for almost every segment, every system of this country. Certainly, with the lack of birth, with the fall of birth, one of the very important worrying factors is migration, the migration of our young people who have not only gone as a quality educated workforce that is so talked about. But when we talk a lot, then it turns out to be more monotonous and boring and not paying attention, but another is a problem. The problem is this demographic, populational one because these are young people who are under the strain of not only labour but also the power of birth, or the creation of a family. We've also got this one pack of pyramids left by the war, left us with casualties, which have created us a lot of disability and 20 years, 25 years goes by and we're really almost doing nothing. Why am I talking about national family and social policy? Because I say with these laws that are always good, there's a lot more to be done as a society. With economic growth and employment, there is one social reward that would certainly be helpful in encouraging young people to create families. It's kindergartens, it's schools, living rooms, it's a cheap diet that allows young people to have ready meals, quality meals and a lot more.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94787	Thank you very much. Nadica Jelish, replica. Hold on to your time, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94788	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. My colleague Murganić and my replica are going to a part of your debate in which you referred to the poor demographic picture of the Republic of Croatia. So, personally, I think the deficit of children right now in the Republic of Croatia is a far more serious problem and a far more serious deficit than the deficit itself in the state budget. In fact, Croatia loses about 25,000 people every year. This is, for example, the size of the city of Bjelovar, or almost 3 inhabitants each hour. Women today have about 1.38 children. How ugly that number sounds, and only for a zero rate of natural growth would it take two children. So, some parts of Croatia, as you said, are, in particular, less developed and devastated by war. So out of a total of just over 500 units of local self-government, only a hundred of them have natural growth. So, an increase in population while 400 of them actually, as we said, have a negative natural growth. So, every day, Croatia, as you said, becomes a country of old people. The social consequences are enormous, but there are even greater consequences for the economy. So we know very well that the power of the economy rests on young people, and the older the working population, the weaker the power of the economy. So we agree on one thing. Except for the measures we're talking about today, which is equalising the rights of adoptors with the rights of biological parents, we really need one serious population strategy, because what we're witnessing today is not from today but it's been going on for a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94789	Hope Murganic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94790	I'll just agree with you for a little while. I called before I heard the whole line of your replica. In fact, I'm glad that here's something we agree on, so I believe that we're all going together to get these documents, and also to do something that would give us some kind of a better quality solution, or better statistical results. In fact, I'll just say briefly when we had one day recently in the Parliament one day discussion about the Industrial Strategy was one idea that we don't have to worry about what we, according to this Industrial Strategy, won't have enough employees, so that we will still be able, able, adequate pensioners and that the problem of the labour force in Croatia will not be. That the labour force problem will be in Croatia. I don't disrespect that idea, but it's not the group on which we can base today a very demanding modern and highly educated and sophisticated demanding industrial work and growth and, in fact, economic growth. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94791	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94792	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague. I listened to your debate, and I'll also look back at your exposure when you talked about the need for a demographic strategy. Yes, and it's urgent. And not just a strategy with a description of what should be done, but I just hope you agree that the family should return to the center. Unfortunately, the Croatian family is on edge. Inside the Croatian family is the only woman who can give birth, and this woman is currently unemployed, frustrated, unable to give birth because if she starts giving birth she can no longer work, and there is no work. The husband does not work and all the values that were once more simply replaced by this whole chaotic situation in Croatian society. Women, and those who give birth, and those who have more children instead of being proud of both the media and the inside of our conversations, they serve to mock and mock. But these women, though, and all those mothers who, despite a situation like this that is difficult, are only able to feed that child with their own strength of love and then when they grow up, when something is finally over here, they have to leave him. I hope that this time will pass and that Croatia will not be Croatia's old people but Croatia will be Croatia's young people. I won't say anything else. I can see the vice president laughing.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94793	So when you say that we women are as frustrated as men, I don't think anymore. counterpart Nada Murganić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94794	Well, here I am going to continue in this little funny tone. We are not more or less frustrated than we may be, here I will draw anger, more responsible since this very now social climate where there is no work, where there is thus a depressing mood, is actually a fear for the future where the economic situation is really difficult and climate in which, or a time in which we have never had more divorces than in 2013. We have passed good laws but we are somehow and... these marriage bonds that together are not a good environment for the birth of children. One uncertainty about motherhood and family expansion is a very bad factor for family enlargement and for the birth of children. Here, as much as women are responsible or not responsible. I wouldn't be talking about it right now, but if we had a real problem with a traditional approach with a solid family situation where not only are they father and mother, so they're a small nuclear family, but they're also supporting grandparents and generations, and they're a good environment for family creation, and that's what we need to cultivate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94795	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Ana Komaric Devčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94796	Dear vice presidents, deputy ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So I don't know how these three articles that don't speak anywhere about the demographic picture of Croatia took us to this difficult debate that isn't really from yesterday or today, so it's a situation and a topic that's been extremely serious and that's been going on for years and the fact is that we all need to be worried. We were also talking about divorces, just one little note, '98. There were more divorces than 2013. But I'll get back to the law. So it's about technical changes, we only change three articles. So, we are in line with the Law on a single body of art and we are in line with EU directives. Not to say again, what the deputy minister and colleague said in the opening, before me, I'll only touch one small part of the club and I'll be really, really short. So, just the part that talks about equating the right of adoptors to adopt twins and adoptors who adopt more children with all the rights of employees and self-employed parents. Of course, the part about parental leave. We find this extremely important because today we have a situation so that brothers and sisters who adopt are separated, separated, left in different families. We believe that such a provision will actually encourage adoptors to adopt brothers and sisters and thus protect children’s rights and respect the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The SDP club will support these changes and additions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94797	You were short, but you have a replica, colleague Nada Murganić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94798	Well, here's a colleague of mine. Yeah, '98. There may have been more divorces in years. I think there's going to be less divorces just because they're getting smaller and getting married, or registering. So outside marriage communities are kind of popular but it doesn't matter now. The important thing is that there is one perhaps unstable environment, and even these extramarital communities may be one of these unstable factors and environments.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94799	Ana Comparić Devčić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94800	Dear colleagues, I don't think getting married is a condition that you have a child. One who wants to have children will have it in a marriage and out of wedlock community. So, we were talking about a demographic picture. So if I'm going to make a marriage, it's my choice, and if I don't want to make it, it's my choice again, and if I'm going to have a baby or not, it really doesn't depend on whether I've made the marriage.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94801	On behalf of the HNS Club, colleague Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94802	Thank you very much, dearly respected Vice President of our Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here are the amendments and additions to the Law on maternity and maternity support we discussed here in this assembly last time a little less than a year ago with the intention of encouraging fathers to more use of parental leave. It may still be too soon to say whether these changes that we have made then have reached the goal but we in the CNS will closely monitor the impact of the laws and last changes on the decisions of parents or fathers. And if, in the next period, it is shown that the opportunities adopted by the law did not encourage the fathers to use parental leave, we will have to propose some different methods, perhaps apply provisions or examples of some countries that have prescribed that parental leave at least in one part of their part, whether it is 10 days or a month mandatory for both parents, therefore both for the mother and father bound for both mothers and fathers. Because we think that supporting children is a duty and a right but also a privilege of both parents and therefore even discriminatory with regard to fathers, we can view many existing prejudices that a mother has, in some ways, commit, and give her a chance as if in the way some say the world's most difficult and beautiful work, which is being a parent, we do not have the same rights or parents do not have the same obligations. And even though the Family Law but also a reasonable one fair one, one correct and partnered approach determines that parents equally share and agreeably care for children or children, we know that this is not always the case. The fact that the percentage of fathers in Croatia who used or used parental leave is measured in prominence shows that the promotion of gender equality requires much more work not only in the public sphere but also in the private and family areas. And it is also necessary to amend the laws, and so I say if positive changes are not shown in the next period we will have to amend the law, we will have to supplement the law. Today, here in most parts we just align it with the Law on the Single Body of Art, and we don't have that observation as a club of HNS. As for the amendment or addition of laws relating to adoption, let us remind ourselves and everyone else that we have already accelerated the adoption process itself by supplementing some other laws, abolishing that amazing provision. the practice of making a phone call within three months to an institution where the child or children resided meant that the parent cared for that child or children. A Regiment of adoptors, according to the latest data, has 775 potential adopters, and as one of the greatest positive movements in the enlargement of rights in the area of adoption, although in fact one of the healthiest, one most logical and one human decision, we consider the right to adopt by amending the Family Law to be extended to extramarital communities. And as for extramarital communities, more and more of our citizens live in this kind of community, this is the trend in both the world and the EU in the whole country. We also saw this in the last census when it turned out that compared to 2001, when the radio census was being reported, the number of extramarital communities increased by 52%. And so it's good that recently those who live in this kind of community have a chance to become foster parents. The changes we are discussing today are equalising parental leave rights for twins and adoptors who at the same time adopt more children with the rights of employees and self-employed parents, thus confirming what our Constitution is resting on. Of course it's not and it won't be crucial in the decision of those who want to adopt children, but it's just more fair, it's just right. Because like other families and those born by adoption, they get new members of their community. However, although many obstacles have gone beyond that point, according to the ADPTA survey, the Association for Supporting Acceptance in front of adoptors only then comes the biggest challenges, most of all due to prejudices that are due to ignorance and lack of information related to adoption. And that is why it is important to talk about, it is important to learn about this subject, and it is important to encourage a positive environment for families created by adoption. A good example in this direction is the maintenance of the adoption week, which recently took place in Zagreb for the first time in which numerous round tables were organised, reading rooms were held for children, film projections and a number of other activities during which many challenges were discussed, proposals for further improvements in the system, but everything as we at least convey adoptors with great pride and joy. We can rejoice here today that with a small addition we will equalise the rights of our fellow citizens who extend their family and the club of the CNS will also support the amendment and addition of the Law on maternity and parental support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94803	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94804	Thank you very much. My colleagues, König, I hope you will not be in a position to octrotically impose solutions on the use of maternity leave on your fathers and mothers. Namely, each family has a specific situation that makes it necessary for a father to take or not take maternity leave, or a mother to use maternity leave, and you cannot octroly order that a father must not know what time. So do you think that the father is less a father and that he loves his children less because he wasn't in maternity care and that he won't take care of his child if he wasn't on maternity leave for 15 or a month? What do you mean? So a man loves a pet cat, a dog, let alone his own child. Well, that's when you have a newborn, special to both mother and father. It's a blessed, bright situation where people live both mother and father, and you can't impose a solution that a father has to take a will or won't. Well, that's some kind of solution that's unnecessarily unnecessarily unnecessarily unnecessarily unnecessarily. If we have a situation now and a chance to volunteer, then who's to defend it later. But you force the law to take it, so what's it for? Why do you guys talk about it here today when that's not even the end of it? And this is the trend of the extramarital community, so it is best for the Pope in Europe to say in the European Parliament what trends Europe is making. Not every modernity and all trends in Europe that come to take for granted and as something positive.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94805	The answer to the replica of Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94806	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of our Parliament. I don't know why you felt called. I'm talking about this proposal because he's good for a father, he's good for a mother, he's good for a child. Such a proposal has proved to be good in those countries that have already implemented or implemented it. For example, such a country is Sweden where 85% of fathers use parental leave. And it turns out, the research said good for their health, and believe me, and it reduced their risk of a heart attack, that's what the research showed. But in this case, I think what's most important is what's good for father and mother and their child. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94807	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94808	Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on maternity and parental support, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 743. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law, please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 116 votes for the adopted Law on maternity and parental support in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94809	- Final proposal of the Law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a project to modernise the social protection system, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 757. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received the report at the session. And the introduction will explain to us the proposal of the Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth Maja Sporish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94810	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. You have before you a bill confirming a loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a project to modernise the social protection system. After negotiations with the World Bank in July this year, the loan contract was signed in Zagreb on 25 September 2014, the total value of the loan is 70m euros. Loans are available until 31 December 2018. What is significant is that it was a new form of loans that was first implemented by the World Bank. It is a model program for resort or loan programme based on the results achieved. Therefore, the Republic of Croatia or the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth as an implementing body has at its disposal an investment part of the loan of up to EUR 20 million to be used to reform the modernisation of the social protection system, while 50 million euros will be withdrawn into the state budget in accordance with each of the results of the implementation which are defined in the loan contract. Under the implementation plan, these 50m euros will be withdrawn from 2015 to 2018, annually between 11m and 14m euros. This model represents a guarantee to the World Bank that the objectives of the project will be implemented but at the same time, and perhaps even more importantly, it is a confirmation and a clear message from the Government of the Republic of Croatia that these reform processes are only sustainable and that there is a clear objective of this reform procedure. It is also important to point out that this loan is only part of a major reform of the social protection system that exceeds social care. It is a consolidation of the entire system of compensation for tax measures to protect all categories of citizens, reform of the administrative network, and is part of meeting the recommendations of the European Commission for the Republic of Croatia. This loan addresses the problem of lack of financial resources in implementation of the deficit reduction protocol and the continued sub-optimisation of human resources. In the first report on the implementation of the recommendations for Croatia, the European Commission has just named the World Bank contract as one of the elements that ensure that the European Commission's recommendations are met. In view of such a positive view of the European Commission, the financing of further modernisation of the social protection system can be provided by EU funds through the completion of this project in 2017. The loan agreement to support the implementation of the project plan's reform measures to implement the long-term fiscal consolidation reform measures for 2014-2016 will support 5 thematic areas as follows. So, for the first time, the unique cash centre for which 12m euros are provided or as we call it the stop shop, so within the framework of this component, support will be provided for the pooling of the processing of financial compensations for social care programmes, family support programmes and social care programmes for family support programmes and benefits for the unemployed within the single network of the single monetary centre. The aim of this thematic area is to reduce administrative costs for social assistance users and unemployed, and according to financial projections, the administration of 8 fees with a minimum remuneration guaranteed as the first fee to be paid at a single money centre, the next allowance for children is a fee for unemployed and maternity benefits outside the work system. In a single monetary centre, it will lead to an annual savings of approximately 600 million kuna. A success with 8 fees will be the starting point for a further project, to continue the project through EU funds for all other fees in the next period, and the immediate system of compensation in the Republic of Croatia is 76 different rights and fees. Equality, second place of unification and harmonisation of the art and administration process, is therefore another thematic area for which 4m euros will be allocated. The proposed project will provide support for the establishment of a single body of skills in order to balance the disability skills process, the objective is to increase the percentage of subjects and disability for which skills were performed by experts employed in the single body, the funding here primarily relates to the equipment of the unique body of art, but also to support experts in the implementation and education for the application of the unique methodology. In third place as the third thematic area is the reduction of errors, abuse and corruption, 2.7m euros were secured. The proposed project will provide support to the government's strategy to combat errors, abuse and corruption, which will cover social protection and employment benefits on the black and misused labour market. The aim, therefore, is to strengthen the information systems and monitoring and control procedures in the social protection programmes at risk within this thematic area. Trends in EU countries show that the automated process through developed IT applications reduces the percentage of human error leading to an average savings of 15%. Excess resources can thus be rerouted to better target the funds of those who are most in need, and we can say in social terms that in the previous period we have a particularly great success with the introduction of our Soc care application, which in a year the review of the subject through the application has found that in fact 48 million kuna payments have been suspended because of the detected errors, we prefer to say rather than fraud. So the fees were paid by those who were not entitled to them. The information system has enabled the detection of these cases. ... Thus, just through the OIB, the entry of the OIB into the information system that we have installed becomes a visible complete blood count of citizens, i.e. withdrawing information from other systems, and it becomes quite clear that this citizen, who is exercising certain rights, is making them real. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The fourth thematic area of deinstitutionalisation for which 830,000 euros will be allocated. This thematic area of the project is aimed at supporting the government's deinstitutionalisation process as set out in the national deinstitutionalisation and transformation of social care and operational plan adopted in June this year. To clarify, the goal is to finally reduce the number of children and adults who are at home in state and non-state homes and family homes and to provide them with the most appropriate form of care, in fact, that life in the community with support. Just because of the above-mentioned sub-capacitation of personnel, this component is extremely important for the success of the deinstitutionalisation process, which fully follows the EU's standard of relations with persons on accommodation. As the fifth area, labour activation, an area for which 400,000 euros will be allocated. The proposed project will provide support for improving the efficiency of the Croatian Employment Service to serve its users and promote labour activation, especially for a sensitive population. The aim is to improve the service provided to unemployed persons, the component is also particularly important for the European Commission because strengthening capacity and creating an activation model is the basis for the European Social Fund projects from which, as I said, funding would later be withdrawn. Finally, here I would like to point out again that the activities and objectives of this project have been welcomed both by the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund, a coherent project with clearly defined indicators, as they have told us, and the final result is the basis for the continued reform of the social protection system through EU funds. After all this, I need you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94811	Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. counterpart Nada Murganic on behalf of HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94812	I thank the esteemed vice presidents of the Croatian Parliament, deputies and ministers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I am... after such recommendations as the Deputy Minister made to us on behalf of the European Commission and the Monetary Fund and the European Bank for Development and all this is difficult to assume whether we have any power and who we are to object to such a law on a proposal for a loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, for a project to modernise the social protection system. However, we believe that at a time when we are so concerned about the excessive debt and debt of the Republic of Croatia, when these same European Commissions warn us, when citizens and persons are in charge, when we are charged daily with interest and when it is placed on our noses that we have borrowed the last generation, all future generations and our great-grandsons so as not to be suspicious and that we do not feel that this is the kind of caring act in which such a large loan is raised, we do not consider that we are asking whether it has been sufficiently publicised and whether we have been able to find any other means and means that at this time of crisis all these changes and all these changes are made out of our own savings, from our own resources. Whenever we speak and I have already said this about the assessment of how and how the adoption of a law will affect the state budget, then we are mostly talking about the lack of funds. Even now, we were talking, and I pointed out that in this Law on Social Protection, Care and the Law on the Single Body of Art, there was no need for funds when we passed the law. But we also see that because of these laws, the implementation of these laws here are the reasons for this loan. So in the last year of the term of office, this government will be in charge of a debt that five of the next governments will repay these loans and then maybe we'll be amazed when they're already sort of clinking some bones in some closet of some kind of skeleton. As a goal, the law states the introduction of a single monetary centre. And when it is established, he will bring terrible savings. We also have a central salary account. I don't know if anyone went out with... how much this central salary account has brought savings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether a few may have been found to have been incorrect or not paying some sort of fee. I repeat, there is no law that will prevent anyone from committing abuse. But for this reason, it is not necessary to change the law, nor to make a regulation, but simply to insist that it is implemented in such a way, with a purpose and in the way it has been passed. And the deputy has now stressed that the existing SoCSKRB application is already being used in the social work centres and the arrival of this government, or this call from the ministry, was found, leaving several million for information and I don't think it is necessary to raise credits so that the already existing system can be upgraded occasionally. The objective of the loan is considered in this section, i.e. a single monetary centre to reduce administrative costs for social assistance users and the unemployed. However, these are administrative costs. The introduction of the SOCKRB application enables the income of data from the tax administration. We have an e-Citizen project where all personal documents are available to the public body. We have an e-workbook and we have the OIB mentioned here and already in our work social workers and benefits. Also, these procedures are not subject to administrative fees because they are a socially endangered population and have minimal or almost no administrative costs. Also mentioned by the expert body when it is said to be his, that the goal is to increase the percentage of disability items for which the artisan workers in the unique body of art. I repeat again whether it is necessary to raise such an expensive loan. And what bothers me especially, and even personally, is to reduce the mistakes of abuse and corruption, imagine in social care. The proposal states that the proposed project will provide support to the government's strategy for the prevention of errors, abuse and corruption under PPC abbreviations, which will cover social protection and employment benefits. If we compare the total social benefits to the amount of this loan, then we also see the 2013 State Budget Act as being spent on total social benefits on social benefits 313, almost 314 million kuna and that is 40 million euros at today's rate. And we know that the reduction in the items in the state budget are reduced social benefits generally the entire budget by 28% then we see that on the one hand it's really savings and that on the other hand it's sort of working on very high standards that I don't think are unnecessary, maybe but not right now. So high, large money spent on controlling any errors for which there are mechanisms and resolutions of sanctions, there is a return of funds to the state budget and whether these funds could have been spent on something more useful. However, the ministry is always somehow appointed as some kind of police officer and is more important to them to control mistakes than the standards of people that actually make them set. I will repeat again, today I said that the revision of the case and the users have shown that the deviations are minimal to the rights of social assistance and that this is a process that promises and gives hope that it can be led to, let's say to perfection if it exists. And in the end, it's going to be spent on deinstitutionalization. When we talk about institutionalization, then it's said that she's the future, that she's very cheap, that she's going to bring in a lot of savings and now we're going to raise a loan for that. Whether deinstitutionalisation and information will introduce analysis and cost plans of institutions, whether to monitor the standard of quality provided to users, whether waiting lists will be introduced not only in retirement homes but also in some other homes, whether the funds will invest not only on the control and monitoring of the foster parents, but whether there may be any incentives for these foster parents, we do not know from this document. So what we think is that this loan is really unnecessary for now, that many organisations could have been able to restructure the entire system from their own working resources and from the savings of their own who are here all the time, that much could be done from EU funds because as we know, we have a problem pulling funds from EU funds. This government has been and it has been mentioned frequently,...the payer of our funds in the EU funds. Could we really have done it in a different way, doing a loan postponement now at this time when we're heavily overindebted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94813	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94814	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed deputy with the assistants. How nice it is to get a loan and we learned to live like that for 22, 23 years. The ease of lending is fantastic in the Republic of Croatia, as well as from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development whose keybinding may be MBOR. Since we have HBOR, the Croatian Bank of the same kind for reconstruction and development, we also have the International Bank, so why do we keep using the IBRD when some do not know English and mainly...... Well, it's a good name, and it's called the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We have our Croatian word. And in addition to that, the abbreviations in the second, then why don't we have the Unique Money Center here as UMC, we can translate that into English. I can see it's just throwing around with those phrases, with the abbreviations, so then I don't know the PKZ and I don't know a lot of things and... etc., GNC, it could kind of go that way. There is no need for shorting and for such expressions when we have a beautiful Croatian language that we can speak if we want. But now it's not about linguistics, it's about something else, and that's the International Bank's loan to rebuild and develop for 20 years, 70 million euros, that's 540 million kuna. At least we can put in brackets when we're writing euros in today's course so somewhere around 540 million kunas. This is quite a loan for the social policy of the Republic of Croatia, so to speak. So social policy comes in line with those loans raised by the finance minister and the economy, etc. It's also time for the Ministry of Social Policy to take up credit. Well, it's modernism, and I think it's the turn to get it up, that we, too, with the Bank International for Reconstruction and Development, make a programme that will be long-term and that will bring strategic changes to the social policy of the Republic of Croatia. So here's an example. Says the Unique Money Center, like our treasury and then we have a treasurer, then this year we completely unsurpass one segment like HZO from the Treasury, but leaving 12 clinical centres in the treasury, they will be at the treasury, the other hospitals in the county and other hospitals in some special one will be in the treasury. So here and here we have the Unique Money Center for Social Services, so let's cut it short, one stop shop, that's what I heard from Sanader or someone, so God forbid it all ends up in Sanader's style together. But they say there'll be 12 million euros for the unique cash center of the GNC, if we go to English and we'll speak all English and it'll be... Yes, GNC...... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The money, the money center, we'll all talk like this. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So the savings, the deputy minister says, will be 600 million kuna. So the loan is $540 million, so what's the savings going to be? ... Yeah, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So we can only expect the GNC to pay off the loans. Fantasy, great. That's all I believe in. Equality and harmonisation of the art and administration process of 4m euros. You didn't tell us, Madam Deputy Minister, how much we're going to save here, so on the Unique Body of Art, how much savings we're saving. You said that for a unique methodology that will be trained by those who are experts in this unique body of art, plus furniture, space and everything else like Dragonovic with bath, etc., so 4 million euros, there will be both jacuzzi and all that expensive, but how much savings I don't know. You didn't tell us that, so maybe later you'll tell us in response. The reduction of the PKK, so mistakes, abuse and corruption, is it, let's say. 2.7 million euros. In this third point, the reduction in errors of abuse and corruption has shown one hidden mistrust for workers in the centres of social care, as well as for social care users. When we talk about employees, it's about mistakes. When I talk about users of abuse and corruption, it's either corruption in each other. She's always had half a deal. Half a drink, half a stick. But you're saying that so far it's been noticed that 15%, so the reduction in the amount of money that was given before, that it saves 15%, and you said it's 48 and a half million kuna. As much as we apply this loan will be more savings, and you said that we are, someone here has said that so far it's almost zero, so up to zero the rate of tolerance, corruption, error or abuse because it can't go on. That looks a little bit like the one from the D.A.'s Department of Defense, where they announced in a loud voice that false disability, false status, would be contained. In the end, it turns out to be about fifty or one of 500 thousand defenders. Pompously announced all together, and then what they say is a burned book in two letters. Deinstitutionalisation, which I don't know how much money this loan provides, you haven't told us about, and yet we don't know anything about saving. So maybe you forgot, if maybe it's a lapus. So, and the goal of deinstitutionalisation, it's a little awkward for me to say, is to reduce the number of children and adults in state and non-state homes and family homes, provide them with family care. I'd like to discuss here a little bit and not to mention tradition, to discuss both customs and everything. Well, you may also have a person who would rather be in homes than in families. We're not America, we're not Sweden like someone said here. We have a lot of work to do to keep people waiting in the calendar, waiting in line for them to be admitted into the home. And when you offer him that he might go to some family he won't, he won't. But they go to the dorm, especially, mostly older people. We all know it's two years to get home. Work activation, I don't know what you mean by that. If it's that, from what I say, social spheres, people activate to be both employees and contribute to themselves and society and to their work, here's what I like about it. But that's where only 400,000 euros are foreseen, as you said, 400 thousand euros. Perhaps in that area, on that part of the program, the fifth point might be more workable. As far as the loan itself is concerned, it is standard, we have already seen descriptions of these loans, this carrot that we easily swallow without any problem when it comes to loans, mainly the International Bank or the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. And then when we see that sum that's 70 million euros or 540 million kuna, and you say, and someone says here, if that's true, the total social contributions are 313 million kuna a year. That means the loan is twice as big as the social benefits in a year. And how, in fact, it seems to me the incredible savings that you're talking about at the first point to save 600, is that for 20 years, savings from 600 million kuna. I don't know. If the total social contributions are 300 million, how will they save 600? I think a little bit of insolence seems to me, at least like that, I wouldn't want to offend anyone. I'm in a good mood, so here's how I don't know how to explain all those numbers. I like math, even though I'm a doctor. But here, I would love for this social policy to stand on its own feet as I have said before, to arrange this sphere that we have almost no doubt whatsoever in any corruption, any abuse or error like there is, for example, in the Pensions Fund, non-retirement pensions are paid a hundred million kuna a year. The Pension Insurance Fund pays 100 million kuna each year. For 23 years, Croatia's independence is 2 billion and 300 million kunas paid for non-retired pensions. There are also a small part of them and those non-participating children's allowances that they, the family's children's allowances. And when we say it here, no one scratches, no one gets upset about it. He says we sued through a lawyer to get him back to us. But every year, besides the lawyers' lawsuits, we read the report again a hundred million years ago. So what do lawyers or states do, I don't know what they do. Thank God, maybe the OIB came to an end and that, so 13,000 pensions of those non-combats were reduced. There were a lot more of them. Actually, there are 13,000 unexplainable pensions left, but good. I don't mind. Here, we'll be held back like the one before the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94815	Five minutes on behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94816	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I only reported for one reason, which is why, in the opening explanation of the promoter and later, the debate went in one totally wrong direction because instead of saying what is the intention and how the World Bank through the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is giving credit and what they are doing is being praised for what the Ministry of Social Care has done. And then it comes to what it's come to, and what one wrong name that can lead to is this unique coin center. It's a totally missed name. Wrong English translation, whatever you want. Because the unique money center in the system where the Social Services Department is in the Treasury is simply something that's funny. Because you don't have a center in the ministry, you're giving orders to the Treasury to make certain payments. But if you'd called this a single social compensation calculation or something else, it would have had its full meaning and wouldn't have led to confusion because in this way the biggest problem would be that welfare centres aren't connected. The second thing, the World Bank and the Republic of Croatia have been working on these projects for many years. However, what I am going to say here openly, this social problem and savings cannot be resolved until Croatia is determined to use one term that is the basis for determining whether someone has the right to social compensation or not. Is it property or family status? Because it doesn't matter if you live in a family that has so much and so much income and it's measured whether you have the right to some kind of social compensation or whether you're looking at just your property censorship. That's a big difference. You can nod your head but it is something that is the biggest problem in Croatia given the way life and the status of life. Because someone's pension of 500 kn who lives alone doesn't mean anything and he's a social case, but if he lives in a community with a family where they earn 5, 6 it's another pair of shoes. And the other thing, the basic tool for implementing this is to make it a success of the OIB. But information is just a technical provision to connect. Unfortunately, however, both here and at the Ministry of Finance and some other ministries have deviated from the OIB's basic concept, which is that in the Ministry of Finance it is a central register and that all data is withdrawn from there so that a fair social policy can be maintained. And finally, World Bank loans by definition know exactly why they're being raised, how they're being used, and don't be angry, but it has nothing to do with what you said in the opening statement. Because you know exactly what the purpose is and how the loans are raised from the World Bank, I've negotiated them to dozens, so I know very well. And you used it to bring out praises about the work of the Social Care Centre that just doesn't stand. Because the only newspaper of this loan compared to past loans is that certain withdrawals will be exclusively due to whether or not the reform has been carried out. So it's the only newspaper. But I'm saying it's not good to explain this law to deviate from the basics and then bring practically those who are discussing this law and also other colleagues who listen to a total confusion. I repeat, the single currency centre is not an adequate name. Or if I were to ask you to explain what a unique money center is for you and you will see for yourself that that name does not fit at all. Maybe it was copied from somewhere, mistranslated in the way it was translated. Because you also have cash centers, that's what the banks have, but that cash center knows exactly what's going on inside. And you can't talk about a single monetary centre because the ministry has no money, the ministry is running its business through the Treasury and giving orders to the Treasury and the Treasury. If the Treasury is unique for all resources, collection and payment in the state, then you cannot have as a ministry a single monetary centre because then certain things should change in the Budget Act and the Budget Implementation Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94817	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94818	Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the project modernisation of the social protection system, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 757. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law, please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 87 votes in favour, 7 abstentions and 20 votes against the Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the Modernisation of the Social Protection System in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94819	Now we'll move on to a united debate. Points 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 as agreed by the clubs. It is about - Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace support operations of the United Nations from 1 January 2013 to 30 September 2014 - Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Republic of Croatia in the EUFOR ALTHEA mission to support peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina - Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the mission to support peace "EU NAVFOR SOMALANTA"; - Proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in an operation to support the peace of KFOR in Kosovo; Proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. You received the reports at the session. Introductoryly, he will explain all five reports to the Deputy Defence Minister, Mrs. Višnja Tafra.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94820	I would like to thank Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs. In front of you is the Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in UN peacekeeping support operations for the period from 1 January 2013 to 30 September 2014. During the reporting period, members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia participated in UN peacekeeping support operations based on two decisions of the Croatian Parliament and this decision of 2011 and the decision of 2013. The 2011 Decision provided for the participation of members of the Armed Forces in 7 peace-support missions with up to 146 members, while the 2013 decision provided for the participation of up to 32 members in 6 peace support operations. Armed Forces members were assigned as staff officers, military observers and liaison officers, and they participated in UNDOF as part of a unit the size of a company in Golan. During 2013 119 members of the Armed Forces participated in six UN-support operations in India, Pakistan, the Western Sahara, Liberia, Cyprus, Lebanon and the Golan High School. From 1 January to 30 September 2014 21 members of the Armed Forces participated in 5 UN peacekeeping operations in India, Pakistan, the Western Sahara, Liberia, Cyprus and Lebanon. Finally, on 30 September 2014, we were in three UN operations where 11 members of the Armed Forces were deployed in India, Pakistan, West Sahara and Lebanon. During the report period, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia ceased to participate in 3 UN operations. In March 2013 Armed forces also withdrew from the UNDOF operation in Golanska Visoravna and stopped participating in the operation in Liberia and Cyprus during September 2004. About pulling out of the Golan High School this High House had a chance to discuss, so I wouldn't repeat that fact. And following the conclusion of the Committee of the Government of International Missions and Operations of 28.1. of this year, the Republic of Croatia withdrew from the operation in Liberia, and in 1.9 we did so because of the occurrence of an escalation of the deadly infectious Ebola disease caused by the Ebola virus, two members of the Armed Forces were withdrawn from the operation. The conclusion of the same government committee also proposed the completion of our participation in the peace operation in Cyprus and on 24 September 2014 the final participation in the regular rotation. Armed Forces members with their professional approach, tasks confirmed the high reputation of the Armed Forces, and indeed represented the Armed Forces and the Republic of Croatia with dignity. I suggest you adopt the report we file. As for the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in a mission to support peace resolution support in Afghanistan, the proposal for a decision allowing the participation of members of the Armed Forces in the new NATO mission in Afghanistan is before you. I believe you know that 31st December of this year, the ISAF Peace Support Operation in Afghanistan, in whose implementation of the Republic of Croatia participated with 24 contingents, members of the Armed Forces, also with 4 521 members and 162 women. As a reflection of NATO's determination to continue its engagement in Afghanistan and the permanent commitment of the country's future and readiness, declared at the summit in Chicago 2011, a new mission begins on 1 January 2015. Some 12,500 members of the international force will take part in the mission of the resolution, making NATO member states a significant change of mission compared to ISAF operation. The resolution support will not be a combat mission, but NATO will conduct training, counselling and assisting Afghanistan's security forces both the military and police. Advising, working on advisory teams of the Afghan Security Force, the Afghan police mean military and police forces for special purposes, forces to protect advisory teams of installations and we will work on command headquarters duties. Currently in Operation ISAF is our twenty-fourth contingent, which has adapted its structure since 1 July to the composition of the regional command of the north, to the needs of future participation in the mission resolution support and we are currently at Camp Marmal in Mazar-e Sharif with 86 members, and our 9 members are located in Kabul. In the past, the security and political situation in Afghanistan has been marked by a potential political crisis to challenge the outcome of the presidential elections, following the final publication of the results and the establishment of the executive authority, legal preconditions for continuing engagements were created because the signing of a bilateral agreement between Afghanistan and the United States of America, and the NATO status agreement between Afghanistan and NATO, etc. Soph. The assessment is that NATO's further engagement in Afghanistan is necessary in order to preserve the ISAF's achievements so far to stabilise security, in particular building the capacity of Afghanistan's security forces with the ultimate goal of transferring full responsibility for the security of Afghanistan to those forces. The continuation of the engagement in Afghanistan is in line with the declaration of a permanent partnership signed between NATO and Afghanistan at the Lisbon summit in 2009 which is the framework of long-term consultations and cooperation beyond 2014. This declaration was confirmed at the summit in Chicago in 2012, and the continued commitment of the future of Afghanistan was also shown at the Velsa summit this year. Of course, when proposing this decision, we have taken into account the security risks arising from our partners' announcement that they continue to fight resolutely against ISAF, which these days resulted in an announcement of a change at the head of the U.S. Department of Defence. Regardless of all this, our soldiers are still in Afghanistan today, and we suggest that the participation of our soldiers of the Armed Forces continue in the new mission of resolution support, we suggest that they be deployed to 120 members of the Armed Forces with the possibility of rotation. We therefore expect you to support the motion for this decision. As regards the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace support operation EUFOR ALTHEA in Bosnia and Herzegovina in this Decision, it is ensured that up to 5 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia have been involved in the EUFOR ALTHEA Peace Support operation in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2015, since the Republic of Croatia has not participated in that operation so far. Operation... is an important part of the EU's comprehensive efforts in BiH to support a political process aimed at enabling BiH to continue its path towards Euro-Atlantic integration with reforms. The main objectives of the operation... are to support BiH's efforts to maintain a safe and stable environment, to support the BiH Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces in building capacity and training, and to support the EU's overall strategy for BiH. I believe that a stable and functional BiH is the key to a stable safe environment for the entire Southeast Europe and indirectly for Europe as a whole. The Republic of Croatia has not participated in the operation... but contributes its contribution to the operation through the role of host country as a host nation support and ensures the use of Croatian airports to transport forces and equipment. The Republic of Croatia would only be involved in the operation with the headquarters staff within the so-called a non-executive term of office. The financial resources are provided and we ask your support for sending up to 5 members of the armed forces in 2015 with the possibility of rotation. Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace support operation.... This Decision will ensure the continued participation of our members in this operation in 2015 and '16. This year we propose 25 members to participate. The EU operation began in December 2008 and, as you know, is a maritime military operation aimed at combating piracy, the Republic of Croatia began its participation in that operation by sending one officer in September 2009. So far, the total operation of Talanta has participated in 24 members of the armed forces, two of which are currently in operation, one in the Operational Command in..., and the other in the command force on the command ship. In this operation, the Republic of Croatia will step up its contribution to the EU's crisis management capabilities and will also confirm maritime tradition and interest in preserving the airworthiness and safety of trade routes as a maritime country, by sending for the first time an autonomous ship protection team. On 22 December this year, the team will be boarded on a world food programme trading vessel for a period of 3 months. The Republic of Croatia will keep the team engaged in the operational command in..., in the command of the forces on the command ship and on the warships of partner countries. We have also provided financial resources in the Ministry of Defence's financial plan, and since the extension of the mandate is expected by December 2016 and there is a possible possibility of re-routing our... team in 2016 to this operation in 2015 and '16. instructions up to 25 members with the possibility of rotation. And with the latest proposal for a decision on the participation of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, it is an operation to support peace in Kosovo. The Republic of Croatia will continue to strongly support efforts... aimed at maintaining security in Kosovo and building professional democratic and... security structures in Kosovo. It is done in the area of the direct neighbourhood of the Republic of Croatia where we have expressed both political, economic and strategic interests and the situation in Kosovo has direct repercussion of relations between countries in the wider environment of the Republic of Croatia. Further involvement of members of the armed forces in the operation... ensures the continuity of the RS contribution to building a stable and secure environment in Kosovo and the region, and is further profiled as a responsible NATO member who is taking over part of the burden in efforts to build peace and security. The current assessment is that the security situation in Kosovo still does not allow the transition to the third phase of reducing the operation... so-called. ... and the current institutional crisis due to the inability to form a parliamentary majority is an obstacle to the further development of the institutions of a violent demonstration from June this year, an indicator of an understable security environment. It is estimated that it is necessary to maintain the same level of NATO engagement until further notice, and a possible transition to so-called. ... will primarily depend on the continuation of political dialogue between Kosovo and Serbia on the implementation of Belgrade, Pristina, agreement on principles for normalisation of relations, the situation in the northern part of Kosovo and the development of Kosovo institutions. We therefore suggest that the decision retains the engagement of the armed forces at the same level as during 2014 including sending officers to the command... to the senior advisory position in NATO's liaison team and consulting Kosovo security forces. In order to achieve the possibility of such a contribution to the operation... it is proposed to make a decision approving up to 35 members of the armed forces to the operation during 2014, with the possibility of rotating from 2 Croatian Air Force helicopters and anti-aircraft defences. Today, in Kosovo, our forces are being deployed 17. The Croatian contingent, and 16 is currently in retreat, but its withdrawal has been delayed due to unfavourable weather conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94821	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, colleague Mladen Novak. Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, colleague Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94823	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. Well, before this debate, I went to look at those previous years, it was always about the same debate, they were always the same speakers from all the clubs, and they were always the same arguments. We are all proud of our soldiers who represent us there, and rightly so, it is an opportunity to gain experience for officers, officers and soldiers, it is an opportunity for us to be present in international politics, this participation allows us to intensify political and economic diplomacy, which enables us to involve our own economy in supplying these missions. Our relatively close past obliges us in some way morally especially to be present in all these missions and all of these are more or less reasons why we should say this is okay and make it exactly the way it has been so far. Each time it has been said for each of these missions the funds are planned within the ministry and it is also a fact that is repeated every year. But it's never been said how much it costs all of us, it's never said it's never talked about what we used. Of all these opportunities that are being opened thanks to our participation in these missions which our economic operator has prospered, which was involved in any part of that story. Remember those who followed this debate last time, there were suggestions that at least on the Committee on Foreign Policy the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should submit a report, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this section. How much our economy has achieved business contacts because of our participation in missions, how many contracts are made on this basis, but that information neither exists nor will we ever hear it. That's what I'm saying because I tie it to a debate that's been launched the other day about whether we have foreign policy or not. So I think just avoiding that conclusion, or the proposal, was not the conclusion, but the proposal, in the last debate when it was about these points, also makes it clear that the government just doesn't have foreign policy, it doesn't exist, and we can't even present anything. We have no results on this issue, and even the worst of all, and when we have the opportunity, then we get the chance, because of some of the higher interests of our economy, our economies in those countries simply fail in those or close countries, they fail to accomplish any jobs or even those for which there is every logic that should exist. But since it's about your ministry there's no reason why we shouldn't support this just saying the arguments that make this all expensive, I think the best expression was used by Dr Bozinovic last time we discussed this, that this debate, however high-quality it is, and however many experts participate in it is not complete without the other part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94824	Boris Blazekovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94825	Unfortunately, I have to replicate because there's been an issue that's not related to the debate about all these united points, however much, it's foreign policy. And with the claim that Croatia has no foreign policy, which is absolutely incorrect and incorrect, namely something needs to be read, things should be followed. It is incorrect that nothing from the economy has profited from our participation in NATO and all missions, these are simply incorrect claims and let's not people do this. People are looking at us, it's about us talking to the public, and it's unserious, irresponsible especially from you Labour populists who have been alarming this people all along with some neo-communisms, with some countries that will be all owned by the state, completely unargumented you speak. I'll just mention the best helmets in the world that Croatia is exporting, now some new job has been done again.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94826	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94827	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mrs. Tafra, the esteemed vice president. They told me to hurry, and then I forgot to say hello. Here's what I can do now. It's my fault and it's over. So, the HDSSB Club has been discussing, of course, and I'm not going to say critical a little bit sometimes, but in the observations that our participation in actions in the world in a number of states that I don't now list here, we have written in these five legislative reports and proposals, we have written the exact number of soldiers and the number of countries, starting with the Golan High School where we ended up with our mission, and then in Lebanon, India, Pakistan, the Western Sahara, so Morocco, Polisario,... etc. then in Cyprus and then in countries such as Afghanistan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Somalia, so Atalanta action and Kosovo. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All together when we do a little promotion that Madam Deputy Minister didn't do but I tried to count down the participation of our soldiers, officers in these actions. It's about 206 to 210 soldiers in total, which is compared to the number we had a year ago, a significantly smaller number precisely because of the withdrawal from certain areas such as Golanska Visoravan, Liberia, West Africa, Chad, etc. What should be said is that just as I started to use our number of soldiers and the work our soldiers are doing in their tasks, which they do honorably, on which there is no objection to use, should certainly be used in promoting Croatia as Croatian promotions do, now is not comparable, as Croatia is known when it plays some football team or Ivanišević in tennis or has our Cilic, so our army does the face of our country and it should be used. Whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or anyone else, it doesn't matter, I don't think we should break a spear here and fight over it. But in any case, the participation of our army, starting with Kosovo with 35 soldiers and officers, two helicopters and then Somalia in Atalanta action. We must say, in this regard, that the number of pirates so as not to say pirate attacks on merchant and passenger ships in that part of the Red Sea on the horn of Africa is significantly reduced. So we no longer listen to the news that ships have been hijacked, etc. This action, in my opinion, is one of the most successful actions under way, led by international forces within which were Croatian soldiers. And we really don't have news of that kind. In addition to the appearance of this... Islamic states that operate nearby but pirate attacks on ships in the Red Sea, there is no more in the Aden Bay than it was on the horn of Africa. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So in Bosnia and Herzegovina, given the proximity and the interests of the constitutional and Croatian people, it is good that we have our soldiers. So it is good to say that 5 soldiers, clear with the shifts they are going on regularly, have been hired as headquarters staff in the organisation of the Bosnian-Herzegovina army and the opportunities provided by these consultations and consultants to join NATO's pact, bringing NATO closer to the military pact and Bosnia and Herzegovina. RESULTS Sport, therefore determined support or support however you want the forces of the Afghan legally elected government in terms of training and military and police forces where there would be the most Croatian soldiers, so 120 is in the hope that peace and quieter life of the tribe will finally prevail in these areas, so to speak, which are located in the Afghan area, although this is a dreary area, given the geostrategic position of Afghanistan, a path of oil from Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan and other ores towards the warm ocean, therefore Indian. I think it's still going to be this area as restless as we know it from history, starting with the Russian occupation of Afghanistan and beyond. But in the hope that this Chicago is going to say a contract that has been concluded and which, through this firm support action, is trying to stabilise the political system in Afghanistan. Ours are still stationed, I say ours in one dear form our soldiers and officers are located in Mazar Sharif as they were before and there are no changes but there are no incidents that would be collapsing with the lives of Croatian soldiers although it seems to me to be the most dangerous operation in any case of all these other operations. In any case, in all these 5 reports and proposals for the engagement of the Croatian Army in actions in the world, the HDSSB club will raise its hand. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94828	Thank you very much. Col. Ivan Grubisic, Damir Kajin and Petar Baranovic are not present, so their clubs lose the right to debate on this point. On behalf of the HNS club, colleague Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94829	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister. I will try to be as brief as possible, namely the very clear situation in which we are, we all support the report on the participation of the Croatian Armed Forces in the operations of all the associations in which we are, which are the United Nations, NATO and the European Union. And Madam Deputy Minister, Mrs. Tafra said more or less about it, so allow only on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club a few words about these operations. First of all, I would say two, three sentences on the Croatian membership of the United Nations since 22 May 1992 and entering into the unity of the countries of the world. With the rest, we have agreed to share responsibility for this same world and the security of the world is the most important job of the United Nations and its Member States. All that Mrs Tafra said is so we at the club accept and support this report on the participation in UN peacekeeping operations of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. As far as the second topic is concerned, it is a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in support of peace resolution support, which is translated by the decisive support in Afghanistan. There's something more I'd like to say about it. On 1 April 2009, the Republic of Croatia became a full member of the NATO alliance. All MPs voted for the decision except for one person. So all MPs except for this one person, regardless of political party or option, were then aware of the historic moment of entering the most important military-political alliance in the world and were at that moment aware of the responsibility for the true, real security of Croatia, i.e. its citizens and citizens and NATO the Alliance is a political defence alliance of 28 countries that contain strict rules on the protection of common civilization, cultural values and in Article 5 that the attack on one NATO member means attack on all other members of Croatia by entering full NATO membership, NATO alliance probably for a long time and secured peace, security, military security and stability for its citizens, and stability and peace are of any kind of social development. In Afghanistan, the Taliban regime was a haven of terrorists and their organisations against whom the entire free world was raised, and NATO took the lead over the ISAF international forces tasked with establishing and still having until 31.12., establishing democratic order and defence mechanisms in Afghanistan, except for these clear objectives and tasks in which the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia participated and participating. Croatia is also an important component of the incredibly cruel laws of the Taliban former regime in not only destruction, but denial of any human rights, especially women's rights. The Taliban regime was so terriblely cruel to women that it itself could have been enough to start the entire international community. Thanks to the ISAF and NATO 12-year operation, Afghanistan is a completely different country under NATO leadership today. The prices paid by both NATO members and Afghan citizens and citizens are large, primarily human lives and money, but we believe in the HNS that the gain is immeasurable, the gain in individual or individual freedoms in... countries, in the development of democratic standards, in the development of society and in the framework of security can mean and possibly also means stability in the wider region. And in this we can... I had to point out therefore one of the observed participants participated Croatia with its armed forces contingent since 2000, especially as a full member after joining NATO 2009. A clear HNS club, Liberal Democrats, will support the motion on the Resolution Support mission, which begins on 1 January 2015, as proposed by the Ministry of Defence. As far as BiH is concerned, this is a very sensitive issue for Croatia and Croatia in the EUFOR Althea mission, a European security forces mission, or the security forces of the European Union, for the first time, and the decision to launch an EUFOR Althea operation followed NATO's decision to end the SFOR mission and the adoption of UN Security Council Resolution 1575 which approved the deployment of the European Union military forces to BiH. In accordance with Chapter 7 of the UN Charter, the European Union has deployed 7,000 members under EUFOR Altheo operations to ensure continued compliance with the Dayton Agreement and contribute to the safe and stable environment of BiH. The Republic of Croatia clearly believes that stable BiH is the key to a stable security environment for JI Europe and, indirectly, for all of Europe. And it is important to note that in a special statement with the Dayton Agreement, the Republic of Croatia specifically referred to part of the military aspects of Annex 1.a, which includes status... giving a guarantee of full respect and action in accordance with the agreement. Here is the first proposal for Croatia to also direct 5 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, with the possibility of rotation, into a peace support operation by EUFOR Althe. HNS supports it. Atalanta, a lot of it is said, I must admit I was alone, I had the chance to witness in Djibouti this operation and how it flows successfully, as my colleague Grubisic said, a successful operation that brought together an incredible number of armies and an incredible number of private security houses and successful until pirates turned to the west coast of Africa. There are no more jobs for them, but it is clear that the operation should continue, and the HNS club will support the sending of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to Operation Atalanta in Somalia. As far as Kosovo is concerned, it is also a very important mission. There Croatia is very successful in participating with its two helicopters and is constantly getting praises, but not only here but in all the simplest missions in which Croatian soldiers are located. I have the opportunity as head of the Croatian Parliament delegation at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly to listen from my colleagues, and often I meet military professionals who praise our soldiers who participate in various military missions around the world. And this time I ask you to convey your congratulations and thank all our soldiers for their work on all missions. And clearly, the Croatian People's Party club – Liberal Democrats will support the decision to send members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to a mission to support KFOR's peace in Kosovo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94830	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Dunja Špoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94831	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. Therefore, it is absolutely certain that peace missions are neither excursions nor excursions, even if some of them were taking place in the present seemingly peaceful areas. The safety of our people, our soldiers, is the most important thing we need to worry about, and nothing can be more important than that. It was last March 22nd last year that the Parliament unanimously confirmed by 12 unanimous votes, namely the decision to withdraw members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia from the UN peacekeeping mission in Golanska visorna. As the deputy said about it, there was already talk in that debate, so we can, therefore, adopt it. Security in peace missions doesn't necessarily have to be compromised by weapons alone. Evidence of this is an early completion of the mandate and of two members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia deployed in a UN peacekeeping support operation in Liberia. So they were returned because of a deadly Ebola disease. In addition to these participations in peacekeeping missions in Syria and Liberia, Croatian soldiers participated in 4 other operations since 29 November 2013. So, a total of 6 UN-sponsored operations in operations in India and Pakistan, the Western Sahara, Cyprus and Lebanon. In 2014, the number of operations decreased significantly, but also the number of participants. 11 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia participated in the UN operation on 30 September 2014 in operations in India and Pakistan, the Western Sahara and Lebanon. So, just three. Trends in reducing the number of missions we are participating in and the number of members of the armed forces in them will still not be confirmed in 2015, although so far Croatian soldiers have confirmed themselves as professional and highly respected representatives of their homeland leading to a complete absence. In fact, members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia contributed to peace in a multinational environment and gained new experience and knowledge at the same time. Therefore, Croatia will maintain its positions in 2015 and will participate in three pension missions in India and Pakistan, the Western Sahara and Lebanon. Operation ISAF is an international one, one of NATO's key operating priorities launched in 2001. The international community sought to stabilise the post of Taliban Afghanistan. Operation ISAF ends on 31 December 2014 and continues as of 1 January in a somewhat updated and modified form as under another name as NATO's mission result support. Regardless of the name, the peace mission in Afghanistan is the most demanding peace operation in which Croatian soldiers participate. In Afghanistan, Gordana Garesic, the first Croatian general, is one of the 27 generals in the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in NATO's ISAF peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan as an adviser for gender issues in the command of the ISAF peacekeeping mission support operation. She is the first person of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to act so high as to participate in the NATO peacekeeping operation. At the same time, Croatia's first female general. The Republic of Croatia has not participated in operations in Bosnia and Herzegovina so far, and from now on the Republic of Croatia would be actively involved in the peace support operation in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2015 with up to five members of the Armed Forces with the possibility of rotation. By the end of the year, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia will send to Somalia the first Croatian armed team to protect humanitarian ships sailing in the area at risk of pirate attacks. Members of the Croatian Navy have so far participated in Operation Atalanta on various duties in command, maritime operation and on warships. But now, for the first time with pirates, we could meet face - to - face. As a military team on board during navigation in ports and on an anchor, it is also tasked with ensuring maximum protection of the ship from pirate attacks, robbery at sea and kidnapping. In the field of NATO's peacekeeping operation in Kosovo, KFOR sent the first part of the force of the 17th Armed Forces contingent. This is one operation in which the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia participate with the people with both aircraft and two helicopters. Their core task in the KFOR operation is transporting forces, cargo or... a person. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With the re-emphasis of ensuring the full safety of Croatian soldiers in SDP's peacekeeping missions, it certainly supports all of the above-mentioned decisions on participation in peace support missions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94832	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94833	Dear fellow Spoljar, I have no intention of polluting with you or not to take this as some kind of remark, often here in the Parliament is about demagogy and populism, which I don't think is negative because there are no politicians and there are no people who deal in public affairs that are not at some point or demagogue or populist, but you said one sentence that I agree with completely with you. The safety of our people is the most important thing. All those who go to these actions they go there to keep peace, they go to the preservation of peace and they're all in perilous situations whether they're on the front line or not, they're in the background. Even soldiers who are in some peaceful place where there are no war conflicts can also get hurt. Therefore, we often deceive ourselves and the Croatian public like ourselves or we will not allow or worry about their peace. These are the brave soldiers we are proud of, and we are especially proud of what you said to the first Croatian general who is. That's why I say I don't pollemize, but so you don't get the wrong idea, they don't go there on vacation, which you did at first and say, that's not field trips. They're going into death situations. And we have to be proud of it and they're aware of it. And we here like us will not be to them, yes, they can happen and they are aware, they are going there and that's why they are being sent but then we here in the Parliament are saying some demagogue words like us, so the normal security of all citizens and citizens but their duty, their profession, their call is very difficult, very responsible and very deadly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94834	Dunja Špoljar, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94835	Thank you very much. Well, following what I've said and I have to repeat here, and here, I really don't think it's a demagogy when it's from six peacekeeping missions to three, and it's not a demagogy when our members of our Armed Forces from Golan retreat, and it's not a demagogy when they're threatened by Ebola, too, our members from the peace mission. So it really made it clear that the safety of our soldiers was our first and only obligation to deal with.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94836	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94837	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here, in the shortest possible lines, I will say, of course, the HDZ position and the report and the proposal for a decision to send members of the Armed Forces to various missions in the world. As always, as always, all clubs that have so far expressed their position and the HDZ Club will support the report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in UN peacekeeping support operations for the period from 1 January 2013 to 30 September 2014. We will also support the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in missions in Afghanistan, Somalia, BiH and Kosovo. As far as the report itself concerns the participation of members of the Armed Forces in peacekeeping missions, we heard that in 2013, 119 members participated in 6 UN operations. Meanwhile, due to civil war and tightening the situation in Syria, members of the UNDOF Armed Forces were withdrawn from the UNDOF mission so that during 2014, the Republic of Macedonia participated in five UN missions. In the meantime, it was also proposed to complete the further participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in missions in Cyprus and Liberia so that on 30 September 2014. The Republic of Croatia participated with 11 members of the Armed Forces in three UN operations in India, Pakistan, Lebanon and Western Sahara. We are aware of the fact that the Republic of Croatia as a responsible member should and must participate in UN missions and thus make a significant contribution to the efforts of the International Community to establish peace at crisis hubs around the world, thus contributing to and strengthening the international position and reputation of the Republic of Croatia. We are also aware of the risks the Republic of Croatia takes by participating in missions and, this colleague Vuksic is not a demagogy, that the security of members of the Armed Forces should be first. This is why we particularly welcome the decision that members of the Armed Forces should withdraw from the operation in Golan and Liberia due to the outbreak of Ebola. As I said, we will also support decisions on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in missions in Afghanistan, Somalia and BiH and Kosovo. The mission in Afghanistan is the biggest mission the Republic of Croatia has ever participated in. The current ISAF mission ceases on December 31st and a new mission of RESOLUTE SUSPORT begins with a significantly modified task and with smaller forces overall looking, and of course as regards members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The main purpose and objective is therefore to advise, mentoring, assist Afghan national security forces. How this mission is going to develop in the future is just going to be seen because the situation is not great and wonderful. We see that the Americans have given their troops fighting opportunities again. Whether the situation and the situation will calm down and settle in the desired order, we'll see about that. But in any case, we are in favour of bringing the Republic of Croatia into this operation with up to 120 members of the Armed Forces. As far as EU Operation NAFOR Somalia is concerned, Atalanta has said a lot about her. The main objective is to protect against pirate attacks and we have already heard that this operation has achieved significant successes and that the number of pirate attacks has been drastically reduced and we see no reason why the Republic of Croatia or the Armed Forces would not participate in the future in 2015, 2016 with up to 25 members of the Armed Forces. For the Republic of Croatia, I would say of particular importance to the mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo because it is about our immediate neighbourhood and the first-class interest in the Republic of Croatia in stabilising the situation and building a stable security environment in the wider region. The Republic of Croatia has undoubtedly significant political, economic and strategic interests here and the situation in BiH and Kosovo is of paramount importance for relations between the countries of Southeast Europe. So far in the BIH mission, we have not participated even though we were a host country and our airports and maritime ports have been used as an infrastructure for the implementation of the action, but we support the decision that up to 5 members of the Armed Forces are now participating in this mission as is the case in Kosovo where we have been on a mission since 2008 and we support this proposal so that Croatia participates with up to 35 members of the Armed Forces and 2 helicopters in the future. So we support both the report and the mission. What is good and from the position of the state budget is the fact that it will cost a lot of Croatia I would say less than the previous years because the number of members in these various missions is significantly smaller than it was two or five years ago. And it's good that in these difficult times for the state budget there is also a way to achieve adequate savings. I also agree with what counterpart Novak said that we did not fully take advantage of the opportunities and chances provided by these missions in which the Republic of Croatia participated in the economy and the placement and Croatian military equipment but also other products, right? And that it is obvious to work on future joint forces and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as well as the Ministry of Defence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94838	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94839	Dear fellow Ivić, well, first of all, I was saying, perhaps it's not a happy word that I'm not libiding, demagogy and pulsism. There is an obstacle to duty and desire, that is, our efforts. You can't be a member of the international community, you can't be a NATO member, you can't be a member of society without meeting your obligations and saying no, we won't do ours or we want as little of ours as possible. If every country reacted in this way, then we would not seek world peace but simply pull the tail as they say. Therefore, the state, the Croatian state, the Croatian Republic should meet its obligations to the international community and do so. It is certain that our goal is as few soldiers as possible, as little resources as possible, to endanger as little human life as possible. But certainly that we cannot avoid our soldiers who we are proud of participating in international missions and operations because we would not be part of the international community, we would not be fulfilling what we should be doing. Therefore, what we need is what we want and what we want is even evident. And as far as this is concerned, I agree that our soldiers have withdrawn from the infectious disease, but I don't agree that every time we strive to get out of all the areas, all the war zones, the rest, and I don't think it would be right.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94840	Tomislav Ivić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94841	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear counterpart Vuksic, the debate on security is so that members of the Armed Forces cannot be either demagogy or populism. It must always be taken care of, or the safety of, soldiers must always be taken care of. And that security, and I was saying in this sense that safety primarily means that the Croatian soldier who participates in various operations around the world and at different points on the globe of the sea has the best possible equipment, the best possible weaponry, and that is already a certain and very high degree of protection, and all other conditions decided to work. In that sense I look at security and it is indeed so if the state singles out, I, as far as I know our soldiers on these missions are also relatively well equipped and armed. On the other hand we can say that they're pretty good I'd say protected from different types of threats. Of course, no one can rule out the possibility that a Croatian soldier or more Croatian soldiers should not give God and suffer more seriously. Fortunately, this has not happened so far, and this is probably why it is such an agreement when we talk about supporting decisions to send Croatian soldiers on various missions. If experiences were different, the debate in this House would probably be very different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94842	And we move on to an individual debate, colleague Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94843	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, Madam Deputy, dear colleagues and colleagues, it is already too late, but let me take the opportunity to say a few words, which is very rarely what I can say, and this is about the work of the Croatian Parliament delegation in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. NATO Parliamentary Assembly is an international organisation that plays an interparliamentary advisory body within NATO Alliance NATO Is Theme [[Stupid Zgrebec: A colleague Blažeković, but this is not a topic.]] You won't hear me? [[Intruder Zgrebec: It's not a topic.]] Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94844	On behalf of the promoter, the closing word of the Deputy Defence Minister, Mrs Višnja Tafra.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94845	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In the final word, I would like to thank you for the meaning of all the parliamentary representatives and MPs who participated in the debate on our report and the proposal for decisions to refer members to a peacekeeping mission. I would equally like to respond to some of the parliamentary representatives, thank you for the support you give us, but also thank you for your comments. So, to a respected parliamentary representative, Mr Novak, who has told us that we have not had the opportunity or that you have not had the opportunity to hear how much they cost, I will tell you, since I have prepared indicators to tell you that since 2003, since Croatia has been participating in NATO operations until 2014, we have spent about billions of 888 million 735 and 638 kuna, in UN missions it is 245 million 612 098, in missions and EU operations in which we are participating in 2009 it is 16 million 573 054 kuna and in total if we add up our people's participation in operations it is 2 billion 150 million 920 thousand and 790 kuna. As MP Mr Vuksic said, Croatia would not be a responsible member of either the NATO Alliance or the EU, meaning it is not participating in international peace operations. What Croatia has since its participation is primarily political visibility which is very significant and also has what is important for Croatian soldiers, which is that Croatian soldiers acquire the abilities they need, and only they can be acquired, that kind of ability specific to peace support operations. When it comes to the remarks you have given us, and it is about the economy, that Croatian producers have not used their presence enough, means in countries where we have participated in peacekeeping operations, I can tell you that neither is the domain of which the Ministry of Defence can speak, even though the Minister of Defence whenever he visits either his soldiers or when he goes to risk areas, he leads representatives of military manufacturers clusters, trying to present as defence minister what the Croatian military industry is not much at the moment, but what he has and what our producers as such could place to other countries. You yourself know what military products the Republic of Croatia has as such. Croatia must participate and contribute to a common security defence policy, and I don't think there is a need to discuss it at all because it is also one of the great efforts of the Republic of Croatia. If our soldiers were in danger when they're in peace operations, I don't think either of us is asking questions at all, everyone is aware of the risks when they're being referred to. The same way we get estimates, which means that surgery, high-risk surgery, middle or low. That's when we talk about... so... we end up with 31.12 this year participating in an operation in Afghanistan, that it's a high-risk operation, you've had the chance to witness that in the bombing that took place recently, it means an American general who, in which insurance was involved by our officer, Officer Toplak and who, on behalf of the United States, was awarded a high honor. So that's the general who, after the Vietnam War, was the first dead general of the American Army. That fact itself already speaks of how much such an operation is and everything else our soldiers are doing there. I also believe that you're familiar with the fact, so the Department of Defense at no time, and it's never failed any incident that happened, so it means to our members. On the same day on our site, we inform the Croatian public, as well as members of the family of our members, of whether the incident occurred, the form of the incident, was that it was self-inflicted, which, unfortunately, could also happen to self-injuring our soldiers when they were in operations far from home, to the situation where they were threatened by possible enemy fire or were possibly in any kind of threat. So thank you for supporting the report on the participation of our members in UN operations. In front of you, as you have noted, it is not found, meaning a proposal to participate in UN operations because agreeing with the Foreign Ministry still stands, but to assume it is as Mrs. Parliament's representative said, that we will continue to participate in three operations and normally means I can tell you even after years how many years we have been out for operations where we are here if we look at only a list of total separations were almost the strongest in the year when we were most singled out for operations, and that was 2011 when our number of members in operations was the biggest then. You have discussed in this House and the financial plan on the state budget, you have also seen the budget of the Ministry of Defence, it is logical that within the framework of the financial opportunities that the Ministry of Defence has and which is approved in the 2015 budget, depending on our options. Likewise, we have negotiated with our allies and determined the number of members who will participate in peace support operations, which is a significant decline compared to the years when we participated with many more members. And today we participate in six operations with 149 members of the operation. What else is there to add? I will give Mr Blazekovic your thanks to our members for the reputation that about the Republic of Croatia as well as your gratitude for their contribution to both the Republic of Croatia and the recognition of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94846	We have replicas. Young Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94847	Thank you very much. Well, I'm not going in the same order that you are. You mentioned the risk of our soldiers, so as far as I've noticed in the debate, no one has put a question mark and no one has mentioned it as anything controversial. I'm calling a soldier already takes a risk of it no one has ever doubted. In the opening part, I was talking about experiences that are impossible to gain elsewhere, so I mentioned it just as you are now in the positive text. The presence in diplomacy, both both political and economic, is something that we can accomplish through this. And I mentioned it in a positive context. But when I said how much it cost, maybe I wasn't precise enough, I didn't mean in terms of purely financial how much it cost us, but what the ratio between what we're investing in and what we could possibly benefit from that is. And here I think that if we put it on some scale that the results would be devastating. I am interested, though, in this matter, and how far richer the countries would be, how much they spend on what members of the NATO Pact and from the EU? And I wasn't just thinking about the military industry. There is another industry that also has what it can do in these countries, and it has what it offers. But unfortunately, there's no record of that. I haven't referred any criticism to your ministry or what you've been up against. If I'm misunderstood, or if I was not precise enough, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94848	Would you like to answer that? Brano Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94849	Dear Mrs. Tafra. Here's something wrong with me today. I've agreed with the authorities twice. First of all, it's pleasant to listen to someone who represents the government of competent, so the more we lay people in that business, the easier we accept. I disagree with the debates in which they said we should use international missions to break through the economy, to sell something, first of all, it's not even worth it this time for the first time in three years defending the government, it's not the government's job. First of all, Shestan Busch, today we had opportunities to read the interview with Međimurjen, not the government provided him with this job, but an entrepreneurial spirit. If the government helped, however, but it should be some kind of quiet diplomacy. We often blame the government here for what's not to blame. I also often spoke at the expense of Croatian entrepreneurs not to do their jobs, to have bad managers, etc. So what we need to sell and what we can sell depends on our business spirit and our business skills, not on the fact that someone from either the Parliament or the Government will provide jobs at the expense of the missions sent. That's right, we're there because of our duty, because of political visibility, and that we would gain experience and that we would be members of an international community that contributes to peace. Everything else would be to escape and play our membership in both the UN and the EU and NATO.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94850	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report and the decisions later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94851	Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace support operations of the United Nations from 1 January 2013 until 30 September 2014. The debate on the report is final. In accordance with the proposal of the Defence Committee as the parent working body of the Croatian Parliament, the following conclusion shall be taken to the attention of the Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace support operations of the United Nations from 1 January 2013 to 30 September 2014. Please vote on the conclusion. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find the conclusion was accepted unanimously by 108 votes in favour, no abstentions, and no votes against.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94984	And we will do this tonight as agreed: - Proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and a political system regarding the request for a call for a State referendum on the regulation of the issue of giving Croatian highways in concessions Please the chairman of the Committee, Pejo Grbin, to explain the opening conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94985	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 76th session held on 25 November 2014 discussed the request for a call for a State referendum on the regulation of the issue of the Croatian highways in a concession submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 17 November 2014 by the Organisational Committee for the Declaration of the Voters on the need to request the opening of the referendum. The Committee has discussed the request in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a home working body which is prescribed to prepare proposals for appropriate acts in the procedure of calling a referendum if requested by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. On the basis of its competence, the Committee shall establish the fulfilment of the assumptions set out in Article 87(1) and (3). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Given that the current law governing the questions of the referendum in the Republic of Croatia does not stipulate who is carrying out the number check and the credibility of the voter's signature, the Committee is, in view of the practice so far, unanimously with 8 votes to propose to the Croatian Assembly, to draw the following conclusion: "On the basis of Article 127(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are called upon by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to verify the number and credibility of voters' signatures and requests for a national referendum on the regulation of the issue of Croatian highways in a concession submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Organisational Committee for the Declaration of Voters on the need to request the call for a referendum by means of an act of 17 November 2014. A year.". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94986	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of Croatian laborists, colleague Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94987	Well, now it's changed, and now we can go back to this topic. The conclusion of the committee, which says it will be directed, is called on the Croatian government to check the number and credibility of voters' signatures and requests for a national referendum. And then what? Is there any time limit until they have to do it? There isn't. Meanwhile, we are getting announcements from Minister Sinisha Hajdas Doncic who says he will resign if the monetization fails, if it is not carried out in the way that the government has set it for itself, and then behind that when he sees the threat, a real threat that a referendum could be unfavourable for the government then he says if the concession fails we will sell HAC-ONC, and two days after that, the prime minister says he has no idea what Hajdash was talking about, they did not discuss it at the government. Well, then behind that, the minister says it's just a hypothetical response, so I'd say that we only seem to have a hypothetically responsible government and ministers because this procedure is really extremely unserious. If there are even stories about the referendum, at the end of the day, which is why we now have all this extensive procurement of referendums that have either been held or announced or are in some procedure, it is because the people simply are not satisfied with the way it shows and thus demonstrates their dissatisfaction with the way this government works. If this government were to be responsible, it would then put a moratorium on all decisions relating to referendum issues which are contrary to the referendum issue. If otherwise, let us now hypothetically what our minister would say is an open tender, a contract is signed with someone about a concession on the monetization of highways, then the Constitutional Court is manifested and says that the issue is in accordance with the Constitution, a referendum is held, and there is no sale at the referendum, or no highway monetisation. Who in that case, or what we will do first. And if we're going to do what the people voted in a referendum and said there's no monetizing the highway who's going to pay for the damage that must inevitably come from the contract. This government is practically doing everything to make it impossible for citizens to hold a referendum, various referendums, a civil plea to make some of their proposals come true. The best evidence is that if I'm not mistaken, today it was on the Committee on the Constitution amending the referendum law that says the signatures will be collected in the offices of the state administration at the office time. So if citizens want to plead against or possibly for something they're going to have to take the day off, they're going to have to go to the hospital one day for office time to come to the Office of the State Administration and plead with one signature that lasts about half a minute that they are for such a solution. Is that realistic to expect? Is it realistic to expect at all that in that case it is possible for any question to collect a sufficient number of signatures? It's a clear message, we don't need it, we don't want it, and we'll find a way to stop it. In order for this procedure to be fair, correct, fair to the citizens, it should be what it should be most logical to refer the first question to the Constitutional Court. If the Constitutional Court declares that the issue is in accordance with the Constitution, then we send the citizens a message you go, you have the opportunity to put a signature on something that is in accordance with the Constitution. The issue is a constitutional issue, but it is obvious, however, that the desire to prevent and prevent citizens from taking part in any decisions, even when it is evident that they want something like that. If I'm not mistaken, for this one, specifically on this subject there are about 600 and a few thousand signatures, 525, so much ahead of us. And now, on the condition that, say, 10% of what is maximum, so far it's proven that those 10% of the maximum not valid is still enough, absolutely enough to start with the referendum. But no, we're going to check it out now. That check doesn't have any deadline, there's no time-limiting time until that check can last. Can this take 25 years to sign a concession or a monetization? This, in our opinion, is the ultimate act of the people's will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94988	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94989	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, as many as we are, 13. In such late hours such an important topic that Croatian citizens, and I believe most parliamentary representatives actually have very little knowledge of, those key financial ones that they can even talk about, has. The HDZ Club will therefore support this proposal by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, but a number of issues remain. The first is the announcement by the government's prime minister that a practical agreement on monetization will be signed by February. So that process takes place, at the same time a referendum, that some lawyers deal with exhibition, and we economists don't like to argue with them because it usually ends the way it ends. However, I would now remind you all of the Law on concessions, when the HDZ Club asked the amendment to install in the Law on concessions such as monetization not at all speak nor who can enter the procedure before it is defined by the law in the Croatian Parliament. Then practically every MP would have the opportunity to plead, give his opinion, his view of the matter and ultimately be the law of that... that should happen. In recent months, virtually all political factors, trade unions, NGOs, organizations have all generally come out and already simply knows who is thinking. What's certainly not good, it's not good that the government has been talking about this the whole time that this is the only solution because unless there's a monetization that follows this country's collapse. However, I would say on behalf of the club... gentlemen... after the monetization you remain debts and that's a fact. However, when we look at what the government has been doing over the past three years and how it has given up structural reforms, as it has given up various processes, the monetisation is something it holds on to. I would also remind fellow MPs because when the government talks about loans, about high interest rates, then it would be finally time to announce them which loans they are, then they would see that most of the consent is for these loans and it is unanimously the day right here in this House of Commons. Because these are all loans obtained from the EIB, the EBRD, the CEB and the IBRD, so most of these loans, and these loans cannot be raised before they are discussed and decided by the Croatian Parliament. One credit that, in fact, two loans, is one hac and the 2009 HRZ raised at that and that interest rate. It would be best for the Government to look at commercial banks in the Republic of Croatia and look at the world market in the financial conditions under which Croatian companies were then in debt and then it would be possible to say whether the interest rate was like this or not. However, the elemental question is also raised whether the government spoke to creditors. Did the government talk to the creditors? Because if you have a loan from someone, if you have concluded that loan with international financial institutions, if that loan has been approved by the Croatian Parliament, then it has the power of the international agreement. It can't just break up and break up. I'm saying that's a lot of things nobody's ever talked about. I think you're asking the people of Rijeka today if they're happy that their bypass was made, and that river bypass belongs to this part of the ARZ and HAC debt, and it's a loan I mean with the EIB and the EBRD, and then the citizens of Rijeka will probably tell you from first to last that that bypass just relieved Rijeka and that Rijeka until that bypass was made she couldn't breathe. Everybody knows that. And finally, when a loan agreement was signed, no matter what the mayor and mayor were from another political option, and then the HDZ government was all happy to sign it to solve the final problem. So a series of such things, however, today one political option exclusively insists that this is the only solution. However, that this government likes to run in front of the ore is the best indicator of the decision to take 40 lipas from Croatian highways and give 20 lips to Croatian roads, 20 lips to Croatian railways. So before any decision, before anything else, the government has made a decision we're going to monetize at HAC, not give it 40 limes, we're going to use them for something else. However, we all forget when the great expansion of road construction took place in the Republic of Croatia that roads were then treated as a key infrastructure facility for the development of the Republic of Croatia. And we can talk as much today as we want about transport and everything, that Croatia has no highways like this and that there are no roads around Rijeka, the question is whether Croatia would have so many tourists, whether the number of these tourists could come to Croatia. It's an elementary question. Well, isn't it logical that everyone participates in a certain way, too, when it comes to repaying credit? But it is very interesting that someone who will be given to the Croatian state one part of the money is worth it to him and will earn an audible amount of money. However, all the time it is silenced that the target amount the state wants to achieve with this monetization is somewhere between 2.4, 2.9 billion euros not covering the total debt of the Croatian highways and... So, one part of the debt remains, somewhere around 11, 12, 13 billion, depending on how much will be achieved, remains state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The state will have to pay it back. Since the state has a 20 billion deficit, the state will not be able to repay the loan in the coming years, but will have to borrow and reprogram the loan. So for the next 20 or 30 years, the state will be in debt for that 10, 12 billion, paying interest and paying back the loan. However, when you look at the amount of revenue from the toll, you add the revenue of these 60 limes with a different maturity of Croatian highway credit and... they could have served this loan without a problem for 15 years, practically you without any obligation with 1000 km of highway. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's facts, it's simple math. In a crisis like this, when the movement of Croatian citizens is reduced to a minimum, when no one should tell you in Croatia that it is an economic crisis, because when you're driving around Split, when you count the number of speedboats you've reached in one direction or when you're driving along the railway track and you don't see the freight trains, it's the most obvious picture that there's no economic movement in the Republic of Croatia and there's no exchange of goods and anything. Because if you go to Italy on the freeway, in Germany you're practically right-handed by a lorry, and you can't, the lorry, and you can't get into that story at all. So the logical thing is that with economic growth, with wage growth, employment growth, growth in economic activity will increase traffic and not by two, three percent, but by a double-digit figure will increase. And the toll revenue will certainly be higher after the next five, six years than we can talk about now. In the end, this trend in the price of oil derivatives in the world market for crude oil and cheap fuel prices will also lead to citizens likely to drive more. So, a series of arguments that we can take into account, which someone must take into account, had to make two or three, four variants that are so acceptable to the Republic of Croatia in one debate first and then public. In principle, decide which concept you want. No, we say if we don't monetize the highways we'll go bankrupt. That's just not true. It's simply not true, so let him say whatever anyone wants. But I repeat, colleagues and colleagues, we've been going to clear the agenda points for the past 14 years, so you'll see how many decisions have been made in this High House for EIB, EBRD and CEB loans. So, about borrowing. Unanimity in this House. Very interesting, that was great at the time, and today it's chaos and crime. So wait a minute! The same political options were built both, and they were in opposition. Both of them, regardless of the situation they were in, raised their hands for these loans, raised their hands for these loans. But no, we simply want to say that the sun will simply disappear in Croatia if there is no monetization. The sun will disappear in Croatia if monetization occurs, because if we look at Croatia, if we look at regional imbalances in development, then we are practically selling a key infrastructure project for all this together. So look, the character who is like this today is what she would look like and how few people she would have been, and how few people left if it wasn't for the highway. How many residents today? What about the Dalmatian Zagora? We keep forgetting it like it happened somewhere else and someone else. But I'm saying, if all this is true, then let the government make a list of credits as well as under what conditions they've been raised and they can pull the parallel as well as under what conditions companies in the Republic of Croatia were in debt at that time. And they didn't owe themselves at high interest rates. What does that mean? It's a very relative term. Today, the state is in debt due to a market situation of four, three and a half, four percent. But, let's say that Slovenia is in charge of two percent, the Czech Republic and Poland not to speak. They have a lower interest rate than that. The Germans practically have an interest rate below one percent. But when you look at today what is the risk coefficient for the highest quality, the largest Croatian company is your reference interest rate of 0.40. And you know what your risk coefficient is? From 6,46 to 6,40 to further. Therefore, let us not say what is not good. And perhaps for the end, a key question that this government has neither tried nor wanted to answer. So, what I've already said. Has the government really considered all options for alternative solutions and problems with the repayment of credit obligations created by highway construction. Whether an adequate justification study has been developed to assess the justification of such a procedure and public interest, in line with the plans and impact on the environment, the budget, etc.? It's not. What are the examples of countries that have monetized highways? I think that's the most important thing. Leading to the experiences of other countries in the world, in particular Mexico, Argentina, Colombia, Malaysia, it is unclear how concessionaries were paid to build 100% new highways and manage them on average for 30 years and return them to the state for management, and the Republic of Croatia estimates that the state can once get 40% of the value of highways if the concessionist gets concessions at 40 years. So you can take, if the average income from the highway toll of Zagreb-Rijeka and Croatian highways is around 2 billion and some more years, and let it stay that way and it will certainly be over 3.5 billion kuna in 5.6 years, so multiply it by 40 years and see what the gross yield is and take someone today who gets a loan of 1 or 2% for 2.5 billion euros, which will pay RH how much the capital will cost him at 15 years or how much he will already get, and then you will see how much money is earned. Whether or not the Republic of Croatia, and I will end with this, which is owned not by a huge percentage, but by the Minister of Finance and Governor both in the EIB and the EBRD and the CEB or the EBRD, is the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of the World Bank, whether in those countries where the state of Croatia owns that the finance minister is governor whether these banks can negotiate a reprogramme, etc.? I'm sure he can. And also J.P.Morgan, who is very often an arrangement of the Republic of Croatia bonds in the interest of further developing the work of the Republic of Croatia, would agree with a serious conversation on a re-programme of credit that was unfavourable, but was in 2009, simply the situation as it is from 2009. And it's a 100-and-a-half million ARZ loan and 120 million HAC of these total loans. But no one has tried to do it, no one has tried to talk to us, but it simply serves us in the nighttimes such a decision not to talk about it and not to be told about it by the Croatian public. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues support this decision by the board, counterpart Grbin, so that it doesn't turn out to be, but this was the only opportunity for the club to say something in this High House about this and we're like a club and we're like a political party and priorities against the monetization of highways.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94990	On behalf of the Club of Representatives Linic, Vuksic and Hodzic, colleague Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94991	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Schuker, we are fortunate that Mr. Stazic is not chaired by Mr. Stazic, which is chaired by a much more tolerated vice president otherwise we would have been interrupted but because you did not stick to "theme" under quotes. I will try to continue where you ended up, and that is, I fully support what you said, there is no bill, no negotiations have been made and everything that has been done before that should be done so that roads can be monetized, sold, rented, anything else done with them. Because if that was done and we had all these indicators of how much credit they are, how much interest they are, how much debt reprogramming is, how much on the highways, and how much on the highways, and how much on the highways, and how much on the highways, and how much on the highways, and how much on the highways, you can make in 40 years, and if all of that was substantiated, and if you saw that these were huge losses, then probably a lot of people would say, listen, you're right. However, so long as the government has not made any of these actions, and everyone else is trying, from the Traffic Faculty, traffic experts are trying to make some arguments that are against road monetization, the government is not giving answers to their calculations. I'd like to look back on a demagogue earlier today, talk a lot about demagogy, about a referendum monster. You must know your colleagues and colleagues that we have only had one civil referendum. In 24 years of independence, we had a civil referendum. A lot of referendum initiatives have been launched. And why did that happen? When the institutions of the state don't do their jobs then citizens want, associations, unions, NGOs, take the job into their own hands. And thank God they're getting that job. We said that already in previous debates if it hadn't been for Mrs. Zeljke Markic we wouldn't have had a discussion about the preferential vote. We would not at this, in the next parliamentary elections, have a preferential vote as I hope we will. So, both those parties and those clubs that fought so hard in this Parliament for direct democracy have retreated before that monster, the referendum monsters. The other thing that worries is democracy, yes, but only if I agree with what that democracy requires. The referendums are estimated at whether they were initiated by persons belonging to the left or right worldview, whether we like them or not. So in this House, we share Croatia in two parts, on the left and on the right. Because it doesn't work out for us when some citizens on the right are starting some initiatives that are opposed to our worldview. That's where we make a big mistake. First of all, if I were Prime Minister, I would certainly do anything to hold this referendum. As if I were the Prime Minister of the Adriatic Government, Kosor would do anything to hold that referendum, the working referendum. And that's when it was all done not to hold a working referendum, and I think that's when HDZ would profit from allowing the referendum to be called. And we know the unions are played. The government must not play with this referendum because behind this referendum are trade unions, meaning unions, and road unions and many NGOs, behind it is 500 and some thousands of citizens who have signed, the only thing I'm not sure is not my domain how much this, after this you know that the next thing you know, what the government is going to do, and that's going to be asked to the Constitutional Court whether the issue is constitutional or not a constitutional issue. Many legal experts doubt that. So I agree, and I was also one of the initiators of the initiative to change the order of action needed for the referendum. The first and most important question is whether it is a referendum constitutional or not and whether it is only then that it starts to collect signatures. This is what it looks like we want 500 grand or more people to pull their noses and tell them you were wrong because you signed what you don't understand. The question asked by those who want the referendum has set for you, it has not been duped, they have not been duped, the government has set up, the majority of parliament who does not want to change, although it has been offered to amend the Law on Referendum for several years now. It is certainly one of the biggest demagogues that Croatia will fail if there is no monetization of highways. I must remind you that the first vice president of this government, Mr. Cacic, in 2008, said that the future government will not have long-term sustainability, will not be able to manage the public goods in the long term if the roads are sold, monetized. At that time, all members of today's Kukuriku coalition stood behind it. And when the HDZ started to discuss this, the possibilities for monetization of roads then stood on their feet and said you will not make it impossible for future governments to manage the Croatian state. What changed then, nothing came to the power of the SDP and did what HDZ didn't do. And now he wants to do at all costs what is harmful to Croatia. If the Croatian government did everything they would do, what they would do, I hope no concessionaire would come, then a concession is needed, no concession is needed. So they haven't made calculations and the Croatian government has no nerve to make a line in the Croatian highways where there's a mess, where there's a crime, in which there's corruption, and don't think that corruption is gone because some people have been removed, it's too big a network that doesn't even know the limits of the SDP, HDZ, HNS any borders. These people aren't, they don't care about parties, they care about money, they worship money. I still think it's only when the highways are processed that you'll see what's going on there. And despite that, and despite this crime, and despite the overpriced construction of the highway where we beat up the money for which we could have made another 50% of the highway, we could have built the Peljeski bridge, I think it's a huge mistake to monetize the highways. Besides, with the kind of rule that the government is ruling, whether highways are being sold, monetized, we're going to go bankrupt because there's no business activity, there's no industrial activity. Which after selling the highway, because when you give something to 40, 50 years you can speak as a sale and everyone says the same demagogue, no one's going to bring it out, they're going to bring out, they're going to bring out capital. So they are in the interest of bringing out the Croatian capital, and we are not in the interest of making money. So why doesn't the government want a referendum? It's two things, she's trying to give in a concession because she really thinks it's a straw rescue, and it's not a straw rescue, it's a straw that's going to drown the government. And the other thing is, because she knows as well as Mrs. Jadranka Kosor that it will be a referendum for or against the government. This referendum, if it is called, and I hope that it will be called or that the government will regain consciousness, is certainly going to the benefit of the citizens who have signed it, I will not say 100% because only Enver Hoxha received 103% of the votes in the elections, but by a large majority. And that would be the defeat of this government's policy. They don't need that defeat, the government can give up monetizing highways, they can also accept those claims made by those experts who say that with re-financing, debt reprogramming can benefit significantly more than by monetisation. So, we have nothing to support or not, this is a procedure, this should go to the vote count with what I would have done if I did, but I'm not and I'm not going to be in a position that Mr. Milanovic and this government, I wouldn't be asking the Constitutional Court to check it, but I would decide that this issue goes to the referendum and I would test myself if I were right, and so the last years, the early elections won't be, and it would be a clear message to the SDP, maybe it would sober them up then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94992	My colleague Grubisic and Cain are not present, so the club is losing the right to discuss this topic. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, colleague Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94993	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The SDSS representative club supports the proposal of the Constitution Committee and the Rules of Procedure, to carry out the count and verification, the count of signatures and their verification by the competent authorities and, of course, is expected to have a clear response, whether the referendum can be held or not, after making assumptions as soon as possible. As for the referendum that was held, my colleague Grbin told me that there were seven referendum initiatives, of which 6 referendum initiatives in the term of the government. The first was in the HDZ mandate, launched by trade unions regarding the Labour Law. I mean the last HDZ government, the government of Mrs. Kosor. And of all the 6 we have in this period, of course they're all serious in their own way and they're all relevant in their own way, but this referendum initiative seems to me to be the most relevant and most serious because... what we, as representatives and advocates in this House, should be guided above all, so... the assumptions of the economic, economic capacity of the state about which something was spoken by fellow Shucker. The ability of the state to be an economic operator, to have its own property. It is not a popular topic in Croatia today that the state still has its own property. But in Europe, it's getting more and more. And speaking of this subject, let me say that when they're in the middle of the road, and we're actually talking about them, let me remind you of what it looked like about half a century ago, half a century ago. The merger of the Croatian north and Croatian south, Zagreb and Split, at the time it was significantly less ambitious than what was done today, was a element of national awakening and national unity. A quarter of a century ago at a time of democratisation and a clear national, strong national awakening and folklore that was at that time real on the margins of such events. In Zagreb, cans of clean Croatian air and a lot of other things could be bought which such folklore brings and what that enthusiasm and enthusiasm carried with it. And where are we today? Today we have come to the fact that, of course, it is clear to all of us that clean air cannot live, but I also think that we should ask a clear question, whether it can be ensured that our economy and our country survive by monetizing the roads. Can the survival of our country and our economy actually be ensured by privatizing the public sector and public capital? And this is one form or one component of public capital that this country has. It was expensive and it was still expensive for us, in itself with tourism, and without the development of other economic branches, other economic branches, of course that the road would not be filled all year round, of course there wouldn't be enough trucks and of course there wouldn't be enough travel for people, but it is still our public capital. Such as water, such as mail, such as railways and such as forests and such as schools, universities, health homes and hospitals. It's all made by someone. It's our social wealth that we inherited or partially created ourselves as we created the roads. And now the question is, are we able to manage this public wealth, public capital? Can we set up public enterprises to operate in accordance with the economic principles of sustainability and cost-effectiveness? Or are we going to manage that every state property is bad? That any public capital is a necessary source of borrowing, manipulation and, of course, incompetence. But the question is rightly asked here, if we don't get paid, how is it worth it to others? It is right to ask the question if our citizens are in the process of paying off loans which are principal, what interest to build these roads, which they have allocated from their own budgets for these roads, and then once again, if these roads happen to be monetized, it will actually go by increasing prices, reducing a number of jobs, and then again, those who come here on the basis of profits from those who will traffic, mainly or those who will stay in the Republic of Croatia, will be worth it. So the question is, fellow Shuker rightly said, it's very important that we have a clear mathematical calculation, an economic calculation, but at the same time it's very important that we have a clear political and economic calculation. And is it not time as this referendum suggests, that we finally say that privatisation is not an inevitable solution, that privatization is not a solution that cannot be avoided, which is necessary and which state has nothing but to go into the privatisation process. Despite the experience we have, which is 100 units that are privatized to how much we could characterize that they ended successfully, that they didn't fail, that there was no need to help them or that there was no need for them now in pre-departure deals trying to save them? Very little. And isn't it actually time for the state to start thinking about how to preserve public capital? And if it is true that by obtaining funds from monetization most of the debt will not be settled, if it is true that most of the funds that can be obtained from it will not go into investments, then the question of justification for such a move is raised, then the question of justification is raised. Then it is really necessary to ask our citizens how much they are willing to bear the burden of preserving that public capital or public good. So, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS doesn't have all the numerical parameters of this moment in sight, we haven't had a chance to get them, but we have clearly an economic-political dimension of this problem and this issue. And we understand that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, this and any of the following, should begin to take a very, very careful stand towards making decisions to go into privatization of vital elements of public capital. And we understand that, and we will defend that position here. If someone convinces us with numerical and other data we are otherwise willing to discuss, but we think that this referendum initiative contains this economic-political ratio which Croatia needs and which we need as representatives, to get out of this neoliberal globalist, imperative mantra that there is no other solution than to sell or rent, let others use for a certain time, and in fact we will probably in this way raise another credit that will be on the burden of our citizens who will then, through higher prices and through various other commitments, pay it back instead of paying it back. But then you should say it. For these reasons, we are following with interest what will happen with regard to this referendum initiative, we consider it important and consider it emancipatory for our economic and political life. We consider it a powerful support for thinking about how to start acting differently and think differently about what possible solutions are in this sphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94994	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94995	Dear fellow Pupovac, that almost all speakers have so far highlighted a painful fact that is related to this referendum, which is that there is no clear, precise amount of what it costs. On what basis can MPs decide? Based on the impression. All of this places one deception, the greatest deception, but not only about the monetization of highways, but about the management of state assets, which is that public capital is evil. Public capital is evil when evil and incompetence is in those who manage public capital. So when an incompetent or let's say the evil ones who want to sell out state property to have some of their own benefit, or their cheifs manage state property, and when they're creating losses just to find an alibi as to how what you've been saying is someone created it and that's what made the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that the state is a bad, incompetent master. She's as bad a master as the bad ones who run public companies. This was also proven in a way that all those directors, directors who were bad managers in public companies when they came to private companies or when these public companies were privatised, proved to be very successful. Here I think it's a goal and an intention to sell and what interests will require the government's answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94996	Milorad Pupovac, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94997	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A respected colleague, if it isn't literally selling roads as property, but it is actually selling income, is selling a possible profit. And in that sense, it's important to know whether it's justified or not, we still don't know it in the right sense of that word. And on the other hand, this referendum initiative is worth the attention and valuable support because it warns us that I must start looking for not only different calculations but we must start looking for different models of economic political organisation and economic political governance in our country, that is the value of this initiative. We're completely clear about this second one that we need to support. This is the first one we expect from the government, as fellow Shucker here has said, bring us two or three variants, and we'll discuss them. Why wasn't this matter discussed at the relevant committees of the Croatian Parliament? Would that be too much, would that be bad? No, you wouldn't. The government has an idea, to present it to the Committee on the Economy, to present it to the Committee on Budgets, to the other relevant committees, it does not have to come to the prey and can be discussed and see if it holds water or does not hold water. And what of it is, which variant is good, which of it is not good? And we've blocked ourselves in this story to get to a number of citizens' awareness of the need to protect public capital. And for the reason that this consciousness is awakened we support that this consciousness is being maintained and developed, it is important for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94998	Thank you. Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u94999	You mentioned a mantra, and you said it yourself, and it's always been said that the state is a bad master, a bad owner, a bad employer, but every time it's kept secret that it's a state. The state does not function in this way, these are individuals who are appointed, who are served by those who are currently in power. When you mentioned that financial or economic part, then you said that you didn't know exactly whether the information that your colleague Shucker said was true, but given that they're all getting through it and no one's contesting it, it's evident that we're not going to pay back those debts. However, you have forgotten another detail that contracts provide that we will pay if traffic is not at a certain level. And that means that it could happen to us if it wasn't those 2 billion or 3 billion, no matter how much we're going to achieve now, but we're actually going to lose through all those years, probably just as much as we got. And then what must be the calculation, which is it, which is the motive that leads us not to us but to the one who even suggested it. I don't think it's really like not to say it honestly. And one more thing when you've listed everything that we've created, that's what someone's created through generations, you've forgotten about HEP. And these days we're reading that next year, HEP is going into privatisation. And it's just as lightly served at a time when you're talking mass in all the media about monetization about 100 other issues this is so easily dragged through the media of the privatisation of HEP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u95000	HEP cannot go into privatisation without the Privatisation Act and the law must come to the Parliament. The answer to the line by Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u95001	Dear Madam Vice President. Dear fellow, it is clear that there are around us in our economic difficulties, in our duty, in our difficulty to recover the economy there are those who believe that there are solutions and just those solutions. Even at a time when, at the time of Mrs. Kosor's government, the people who offered the solutions that today's government wanted and against which is this referendum initiative. And they tried to get the support of people from different sides and that's their job. But our job here as I understand it is not to let it be a simple job, not to let it be the only way to come to a solution. And thank those who launched this initiative and put their foot in the door. As regards the issues of further possible privatisations or further possible concessions or further possible campaigns as to what the State may manage or cannot manage. Well, you know what, it's about as well, it doesn't matter who owns what they rule over. As a matter of fact... how masters, not who has the title. From that point of view, it would be quite the same for us, regardless of whose road we're taking, but we have a different experience when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u95002	Thank you very much. Time. And on behalf of the HNS club, counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u95003	Dear vice presidents, colleagues and colleagues. I'm wearing two papers, but it says very little on them. I won't be long. The HNS Club will support this conclusion on the signing check for a referendum on highway monetization. There was, or constantly, a debate about trying to delay something, that is, not wanting to give short deadlines, etc. I think we all need to be aware as the referendum initiative is a democratic step, and we also need to know that democracy as such has its own procedure and that it is going in its turn. One step, the first step is to check the number and verify it, or control the signatures themselves. As far as the measure of things is concerned, the issue of referendum and inflation of referendum initiatives, the HNS stands at the point of view that the issue is related to this idea, or the procedure that the government has put in the procedure, which is that it is going to monetize certainly something that provokes different views and is certainly not negligible in this regard. If one large number of people, and we have seen that 500 and a few thousand people have come to this referendum according to what we have, that this is something to take care of, as should all other referendum issues, but this somehow has a special weight because it is a public good that should and have the right to have all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. However, the situation in which the economy is, and on several occasions it has been discussed today, has in some way initiated the government's idea to try to disburse the debts of the Republic of Croatia, the public debt, and in some ways try to roll some other investments in Croatia which, in this difference, will enable the possibility and the chance of the Republic of Croatia to reduce the debt, when it reduces some new initial growth. In fact, when a decision on the construction of highways was made, it means in some period of a few years after highways were built, as something like that would probably happen if we now had the strength for a stronger swing in infrastructure investment. Whether these are railways or some kind of port facility would certainly give the Republic of Croatia one additional chance and additional power to move forward. And in that sense, the HNS initiative is acceptable. Everyone was right here in the debates today, I'd say, and the government is right. Whether we all had enough information and at all this referendum initiative, which is one, has a very strong power, but I'm not sure that we all had enough information and those who initiated the referendum, and perhaps the government itself has informed her enough, I won't tell myself, but those who make decisions. I must say that my committee, the committees were mentioned here, my committee has scheduled a session at which I hope to receive from the ministry, the Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Committee one quality information about this initiative, that is, about the process in which we entered. It has been said here on many occasions that Croatia is not in such a difficult situation, so I am also convinced that Croatia is not in such a difficult and catastrophic situation, but we must admit that from day to day sitting here in the Parliament right from colleagues who said it is not, we are constantly listening to it. Well, now I don't know if we are or not. I haven't mentioned anyone by name, but some colleagues here often talk about the catastrophic economic and any other situation in Croatia. And surely the government is driven by these economic problems and chances that may open up a debt settlement, that this idea is something that is definitely a political decision, Government. Of course, this whole question goes beyond checking the number of votes or the verification of the votes themselves, it should probably also go to the question whether or not the decision is a referendum and whether it is constitutional, in accordance with the Constitution. Now, I suppose that question will also be asked by the Constitutional Court, because we know what the powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia are. The HNS certainly supports a broader debate on such a subject, but the decision, such a political decision, according to our Constitution as we read it, and we will not prejudge anything, is in the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. However, it is a question to which the Constitutional Court will answer eventually. It would also be good to talk about things like this, so we've all been very poetic when we talk about these topics, about wealth, social property, state property, like this. I think that as Parliamentarians, we should call for reason and race and make sure that if someone hasn't given us all and complete information to get that information. Because we certainly have those channels. We certainly have channels through which we can come up with quality information both from profession and from measuring institutions, so we are not a safe place to talk primarily about such topics from the position of emotions and from the position of lyric and love of asphalt, kilometers of asphalt built by the Republic of Croatia. So here I am just briefly in this view. Of course I'd try to be, to appeal that if I see that I'm already under replicas to appeal to try rationally on this subject, more rationally, and less emotionally discuss it. And then maybe it'll lead us to the best solution whether it's yes or not to monetize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u95004	This brief exposure of yours will take about 26 minutes, my colleague. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u95005	And in fact, I thought I'd take it or I wouldn't answer the line. However, if the public debt of the Republic of Croatia is 82% of GDP. That's 270 and another billion. And if we cut him by 20 billion kuna, did we change our picture? At the moment when Croatian highways begin to repay their credit, they do not fall into the total debt of the state because they have their own revenues. So you need to know the methodologies because it's a key story. So with this looking at the financial picture of Croatia we won't like anyone God knows what, except what to do to those who have cheap capital, and they don't have where to invest it now to offer a nice coke of golden eggs. It's a fact and it can say whatever anyone wants from it. Well, at the end of the day, there's a thousand possibilities. They also have pension funds, they have bonds, there are a million ways to get rid of this thing. So why did we only go with one concept? So, about that, that was why we asked that things like this couldn't be solved without a special law and that if they were to be discussed all day in this House. A thousand people are smarter than one, not, not to tell that people that man and some livestock are smarter than I am human.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u95006	But I shouldn't be giving advice, but if you wanted to discuss this topic, you might have suggested interpretations in our Rules of Procedure. counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u95007	Well, I said in my debate, everyone was right today in their discussions, but maybe the government was right. I don't know, maybe. Because we have a 4 billion-euro debt, no interest. So HAC and ARC 30 billion euros. Over the next three years, we've been charged 2 billion euros. Yeah, well, looking to reprogram the debt is so it stays long and we work, as I would say you work for the debt. And if you don't have that debt, then you don't work for that debt, but that debt, or that money that's going to stay here somewhere in your pockets, you can use it for something else. That's what this is about, fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u95008	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u95009	Dear colleagues of Đurić-Turina, you said it took me as long as I understood you, and perhaps I misunderstood, the referendum issue to be passed on to the Constitutional Court. You don't have to. We've already had practice that we haven't, that the Parliament has not given a referendum question to the Constitutional Court. That is our ability to give or not to give. I'm the one who suggested we don't ask questions. The Constitutional Court can react on its own if the Constitution is violated, but it doesn't need to. Therefore, and when votes are counted, there may be a referendum afterwards if such a decision is made. So it's not necessary. It's another thing. You're working for the debt you said a little while ago. In their discussion, however, those who will buy, or who will concession, highways will likely do so with a loan. It's very interesting how they won't work for that debt. Credit can be reprogrammed with far more favourable assets than those loans have been raised. But in order for you to be right, we need calculations. Someone's supposed to give us our receipts, and it's not too late. We need to subdue the accounts so we can make the right decisions. Without these precise calculations, we can talk about the impression or feed on what we read in the media.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u95010	Milorad Pupovac, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u95011	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues. I guess using the formulation won't do us any good if we use poetic expressions, thinking about the expressions I used in my speech. But I'd like to correct you, I didn't use poetic expressions, and I didn't even notice, and I tried to be aware of my condition as I was saying, that my condition was emotionalized as I spoke. It used to be in some other speeches but there wasn't one in this speech. So, I didn't use the expressions of the type of our beautiful highway, nor did I use our highways, our family silver. This could possibly be classified as poetic expressions. I used very precise terms such as public capital, which is an economic political term that assumes for itself a certain kind of economic policy measures and economic political philosophy. And I've been advocating her with full awareness of what that might mean. And now I'm going to say what it can mean. If privatisation and monetisation brought or contributed to Croatia's equality with investors, banks and others, then Croatia would be more equal than it was, this is not how it was. If privatisations, concessions, monetisations contributed to the fact that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are more equal to each other and not that inequality grows then this privatisation and monetisation would contribute to this and not contribute to this. And if this is emotional to you, what I'm going to say now is that I'm going to be able to agree with you. And that's a commitment to what the state should be. Not in the identity sense of that word, but in terms of the possibility of your survival, which is if you take away the state from managing something, public enterprises, so how are you going to develop the possibility that the state exists in the first place?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u95012	Thank you very much. And Mladen Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u95013	Thank you very much. Well, your colleagues Turina-Đurić were in one part a bit contradictory. You said that we have the opportunity as Parliamentarians to get real and quality information. So how come none of 151 MPs have that quality and real information? You said yourself that maybe the government didn't inform itself enough. So just remember the fact that you as president of the Transport Committee how many times you've asked the Ministry to have any thematic sessions with certain topics, with certain parts of that portfolio, and what have we come up with? Until one half-sister left by the minister after half an hour or a few hours for the reason he had an urgent obligation to meet with a colleague, another government minister. So much for how many Parliamentarians are experiencing and how much of their ability to get real and quality information, as you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u95014	And the final chairman of the board, Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u95015	Thank you, Madam Vice President. However, I had to answer this final word because of a number of things that were said about the procedure. The procedure has not yet been entered into the law and has no deadlines. In this regard, I can say that if you looked at the proposal for a referendum law you saw, this new one that went into the procedure today, which was in the public debate for a long time, you saw the deadlines proposed in it. Some will say short, some will say long, and I will give you an example of a civil initiative by Croatia and Switzerland. First, I will talk about the Croatian citizens' initiative "In the name of the family" which started in April 2013, the signatures were collected, after which we discussed it, we referred it to the Government for a count, the government counted, we had some decisions of the Constitutional Court, we can say we tended, we can say we had a little more discussion in the Parliament but in the year 1,12.2013 a referendum was held. On the other hand, in a country filled with the mouth of all those calling for a referendum in 2011, an initiative of similar content was launched, almost identical and it sought the same thing in the Swiss Constitution. The signatures were collected, in 2012 were submitted to the Swiss Assembly and to this day not only was the referendum not called, the last time I checked in October this year there was no debate in the Swiss Assembly. Do not ask Croatia to exercise Swiss law only in the part you like. In normal countries, the deadlines are far longer than those you claim are too long in the proposal for a referendum that went into procedure today, not to mention that they are far longer than what we are talking about today. Look at Great Britain, for example. The referendums are announced over a year in advance. Another thing about referendum initiatives. In no country that knows the Moratorium referendum, there is no moratorium, so it is neither there nor in Croatia. Imagine the situation, as some MPs suggest today, someone starts a civil initiative and the government cannot make decisions until further notice. Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, HDZ will be in power in this country, or not, we will either be in opposition or we won't, but if I'm in opposition and we accept this rule, then for every decision I don't like, I'll start collecting signatures. Collected or not collected by the moratorium must be set to make decisions. Then who will rule the country and how? None. So when you propose moratories, think about the consequences of such decisions. That you want to obstruct the cap down there. Now, speaking of moratorium, this referendum is not about highways. I do not know if you have read the referendum question, have you read the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Roads Act proposed by the authors of the referendum initiative, but there is no mention of highways there. They are only mentioned in the title of the referendum and the request that has been submitted to us. And what are they talking about in the law? A comprehensive ban on one way to make available on all public roads in the Republic of Croatia. And you know what that means? There are no more concessions for example parking on public transport areas, ok we disband all parking companies in Croatia and healthy. No one's thought about it. But that's what the bill says. A fellow Shuker, that's what the bill says. And now I'm gonna end up with what the union said, looking for, setting up an ultimatum for the state to act on this referendum as soon as possible. So why is this union not, for example, in April 2010, when the Government of the Republic of Croatia, was then run by another party but it is always one and the same government in its programme envisioned the giving of highways in concessions. The program is still publicly available today. Why didn't the union then begin the process of collecting signatures, why not two years ago when the Government of the Republic of Croatia began to operationally implement this process of monetization between the other and the election of consultants, why then the union didn't start collecting signatures but waited for October this year and then came here today looking for moratories. I am pleased that you have supported this decision, I am pleased that this decision will obviously, when we discuss it, be given the necessary majority, I want to believe and I am convinced that during January, by the end of January, we will have the necessary information from the Government, that we will know the exact number of signatures and then first on the Committee on the Constitution, and then on the plenary session, and probably at the session of all Croatian National and Interested Labour Authorities, we will have a broad comprehensive debate on whether this issue is allowed, is this issue not allowed and what is the right way to reach highways in the Republic, but first of all, which is the right path of debt management that has arised due to the construction of highways in the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u95016	I'm closing the debate. We will vote on the proposal for a conclusion later. My colleagues and colleagues will continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. We'll start with a list of candidates to elect four members of the HRT Programme Council. We plan to finish tomorrow with point 24. Session interrupted in 20.50 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-12-03-0.u95017	Proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system concerning requests for a national referendum on the regulation of the issue of the award of Croatian highways. The debate is closed. I am putting the table to the vote. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find the proposed conclusion has been reached unanimously with 117 votes in favour. And now we give a break on the search for the Croatian Democratic Community club, HDZ. ... HDZ, Labourists, Croatian Labourists, Independent Representatives Vukšić, SDP, HDSSB of the Croatian Parliament, Honored colleague Davorin Mlakar. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay, thank you very much for your advice. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, I'm not going to read now, unless you're happy looking for an argument. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You know that very well. So you're looking for a break for 10 minutes? At 11.15 p.m.
