ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u64061	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. We're going back to work. Before we begin, I would like to inform you that at 10:30 P.M., he will be attending the Assembly and this Chamber. E. Mr. Trajko Veljanovski, President of the Assembly of the Republic of Macedonia who will address us in the Macedonian language, so here I see that there are already shared headphones for simultaneous translation. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u64062	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament I would ask you on behalf of the HDZ Club for a 10 minute break, it will be enough, it is the minimum to be given, and the reason is that the rating agency Standard&Poor's reduced the rating of the Republic of Croatia with I think never clearer explanation why it happened. I think you just have to talk about it in this High House. And I guess finally our government will realize that we can't go like this anymore because we're going to sink. That's why I'm begging you on behalf of the club break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u64063	Labourists? I'm a colleague of Novak's.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u64064	For the same reason we're looking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u64065	Thank you. I'm determining a 10-minute break. It's 9:00.35. After a break at 9.40 a.m. My colleague and colleague, here we go. On behalf of the HDZ Club, here you are, colleague Ivan Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u64067	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The rating agency Standard & Poor′s yesterday in the Republic of Croatia, in fact today in Croatia, reduced the long-term credit rating from "BB-+" to "BB-stable". However, what may be most devastating for Croatia and for the Croatian government is an explanation and never in the last two years because the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia has been reduced exclusively for the last two years, there has been no such core explanation of why it is done. So there wouldn't be politics and it would be a whim or a story of opposition. I'll just quote what they said, why are they reducing credit ratings? They say that the reduction in ratings reflects our view that the measures of economic and budgetary policy introduced by the Croatian government so far are insufficient to encourage the economy and growth and bring public finances on a sustainable path. The agency analysts also estimate that Croatia's GDP fell by around 1% in 2013 and, contrary to previous forecasts, the recession is now expected to continue in 2014 six years in a row. So, never a clearer explanation. Never a clearer message from anyone to the government of the Republic of Croatia, gentlemen. You're on the wrong track. However, we have been the whole last year during the adoption and implementation of the 2012 budget during the rebalancing of the 2013 budget. 1st and 2nd in the 2014 budget warned that the government is on the wrong track, that the government is running a poor economic policy, that the government is mismanaging fiscal policy and that all stories of fiscal consolidation are simply not and is not true. However, we received answers as to how we were getting but what is most important to colleagues and colleagues, the reduction of this credit rating and the justification for why the credit rating was reduced is the consequence of this government's policy. There's no sign of anyone else's guilt here anymore. It's right here that you didn't do it, and you didn't do it and you didn't do it, but you had to do it and you had to do it in order to simply be trusted by someone and what is key and what can be read between the lines, you also sent a message to Croatia that we didn't take advantage of all the advantages that EU accession offers. Unfortunately, because of the generally known situation of the law, Lex Perkovic, that reputation has been ruined and our chances of taking advantage of the economic situation have also collapsed. So, colleagues and colleagues, it's high time the government stopped selling us fog. This year we will have a deficit of over 20 billion kuna, now we are already at 376 thousand unemployed, the first month is at the end, you have no indication that any tender will be opened for these so-called investments in the Republic of Croatia that should be given some economic effect because if you expect an economic effect then this procedure will start to work and that this economic effect should be seen and should be completed, however we have no indication of what will be done this year. So, unfortunately, this may be the most ominous and direct message to those who run the Republic of Croatia and the result of this colleague and colleagues at times when the world capital market has as much money as you want, when the countries that are similar to us, so Slovakia and some others are in debt at 3.5% interest, we will pay interest over 6%, and this is now the chance that anyone who wants to sell us expensive capital because this year we must not forget 42 billion kuna, and it will be over 45 because the deficit will be greater than what is said. So, all those who would like to lend us money and will forgive us for the expression, and the item of interest that they were so accused of, some others will very much grow, but it will be a job and from the inaction of this government, and that is why we felt that, on behalf of the HDZ Club, we simply had to talk about it at the beginning of this session. You heard yesterday the story of the Prime Minister about the reforms as if paraphrasing you wanted them, you'll have them. However, this result of the government's indemnity, the result of the government's failure to find it, but today it will pay fatly for Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy because this expensive capital pays few countries at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u64068	Thank you. On behalf of Croatian Labourists, please welcome Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u64069	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Yes, I will start the same way as Mr. Schucker finished and that's what you wanted to reform you'll have, although in plan 21 they promised reforms in the first six months and after 6 months Kukuriku coalition remember those promises of the first Deputy Prime Minister that no longer exists in the government or in the party, that the economic takeoff will begin, the first jumble of buildings, then the big investments in public enterprises, after which the Croatian government gave up major investment by public companies, and she said now private companies will start because we will relieve them of taxes. The other day, it was two days ago, here in the Croatian Parliament was Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. Every economic question was answered with a yes or no. We haven't heard, except for a few of his jokes, we haven't heard a single analysis of the economic situation, not even a single message from the government, and the government is obliged here in the Croatian Parliament to give birth to what it does. Croatian Labourists have, we have already talked about it several times about the agencies that bring credit ratings, their opinions. They are often unjust and can be racquetical. Be careful, one of the reasons for the decline in ratings is this: "The reduction in ratings reflects our view that the measures of economic and budgetary policy that the Croatian government has introduced so far are insufficient to promote economic growth and bring public finances on a more sustainable path. We believe that the competitiveness of the economy remains weak, including due to the rigidity of the labour market." Where you're going, where there's gonna be tears, but in the eye. How can most parliamentarians now be able to raise their hands for the work of a restrictive, labour law, for the restrictive Labour Act? So the crisis will break over whose back? Over the back of the workers. It's like the Croatian government ordered this. The Croatian Government is not afraid of our calls here in the Parliament, especially not calling out the opposition, the position, or representatives of the government never even yell at their government, I don't mean literally shouting. It is therefore evident that within two years the Croatian government has not found instruments to stop the decline in production, has not stopped, has not found instruments to employ more unemployed people, how to stop unemployment, we know that 375 thousand are unemployed, there will soon be 400 thousand unemployed, we ask where is the border? When Prime Minister Milanovic is asked if he will reconstruct the government, whether he will put in government capable people who know something about the economy, he says I don't think of it. That's no again. And when we ask him what measures were taken to fix the situation, he sends messages that are at the bar level. You've asked for reforms, you have, but watch out for reforms, for two years, so if the opposition hadn't asked for reforms, they wouldn't be now. What we got from the agency that brought us down, put us back in one of the garbage, one of the garbage, it's an indicator and the government's work, it's been ringing for a long time, the red light's on, but we all see it, the citizens are delirious, no one sees from the government that it is. Because to see then really what's being said from this assembly payphone would ring in the ears and those who lead in the executive government of the country. However, apart from boastiness, we received nothing on the current clock. So it's probably not even our cry for fruit, but that's why the workers will suffer because the Kukurik coalition will bring, and this is one of the arguments and this one sentence of the restrictive Labour Act, which is a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u64070	Thank you. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 10.30 HOURS]] E. Mr. Trajko Veljanovski, President of the Macedonian Parliament with the delegation. . I'm using the occasion to ask NJ. [[Applause.]] E. Mr. Trajko Veljanovski President of the Republic of Macedonia's Parliament to address us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u64079	Dear MPs, Excellencys, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to express my satisfaction for the opportunity I have on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Macedonia to address this esteemed Parliament. I am standing here with great respect and great respect for you representatives of the Croatian people and citizens. The feeling of satisfaction is so great because I carry it with me to share it with you with sincere expressions of friendship and respect for the citizens of my country of Macedonia. Macedonians and Croats have countless reasons for contentment over the quality of mutual relations. Officially Skopje and the official Zagreb as well as in the past today, but in years before us, they represent a good example of how to build and maintain an honest friendship here in the Balkans. Dear friends of the Macedonian and Croatian people have a similar fate. Fate filled with difficult moments, great downfalls and strong national successes. Fate filled with events that today are a measuring unit of sacrifice and strong belief in the brighter future. The legacy of SFRY is our common denominator. Here our history has gained a new meaning in relation to both the good and the bad aspects of this system. Regardless of all the ups and downs our former common state has had, I am pleased to find that Croatia has always been an honest friend of Macedonia in these socialist times, but Macedonia has also been an honest friend of Croatia. The new liberalism that he blew from Zagreb or Ljubljana echoed greatly in Skopje as well. The new winds of change, the largest force in Croatia, have contributed to the acceleration of the Macedonian state's independence process. In this sense, the June 1991 Declaration of Independence contributed to the Macedonian people's decision to take the same step three months later by adopting their own Declaration of sovereignty. Then they followed the painful processes of denouncing this sovereignty and independence, which, unfortunately, had a dramatic form in Croatia. For this reason, I would like to direct from this place the expressions of the deepest respect for the sacrifice of the Croatian people but at the same time give my deepest condolences to the families of the victims who nested in the altar of your freedom. At the same time as I would like to make an invitation never to repeat these events and to become an important lesson for those of us who have been here for centuries and who have to cooperate and respect each other. Dear Croatia was among the first countries to recognise the independence of the Republic of Macedonia. This happened on March 12, 1992. For us in Macedonia, it was an act that is the best proof of the quality of our relations. We also thank Croatia for the way it treats the Macedonian national minority over the years. We are immensely grateful for the total assistance and support provided by Macedonians in Croatia. They have their own associations, as well as several schools in Croatia teach Macedonian language. It is also worth mentioning and showing gratitude for Croatia's official recognition of the Macedonian Orthodox Church, which is here to serve the religious needs of Macedonians. This attitude towards the Macedonian minority is a confirmation that for democratic Croatia as well as for us in Macedonia, the minority bridge that brings us together. At the same time, we also see it as an obligation to continue to treat Macedonian state institutions with the same seriousness and care towards members of the Croatian national minority in the Republic of Macedonia. We have taken a lot of steps on this plan and I believe that our two countries will slowly become an example of how a democratic government should and must treat members of different minority ethical and religious groups. Dear friends, Macedonia and Croatia share together the common past and common plans for the future. The future is common to us. It springs from deep human values that are characteristic of the region in which we live. Macedonia and Croatia that have given so much to the European continent throughout history have the obligation but also the right to become an integral part of all forms of security, economic, political and other integration. That's why we went towards full membership in the NATO alliance. We have jointly implemented the painful and difficult reforms of the defence and security sector. We participated jointly in NATO's international missions to preserve international peace and the value of the alliance. We made great sacrifices on that road because we believe it's the only alternative for us. However, unlike Croatia, which became a NATO member in Bucharest in 2008 Macedonia failed to do so. Regardless of the fact that we have fulfilled all the conditions, we have failed to reach a part of the alliance. The reasons are well - known. It is an unprincipled relationship that we have suffered for years because we are called Macedonia. But we don't have any other names. That's who we are, and that's who we're gonna be. In that sense, I would also like to thank you sincerely for the fact that Croatia began to recognise the Republic of Macedonia under its constitutional name, making it part of more than 130 countries with which we have these relations. It is invaluable help for us that enables us to spread our truth even more. We are committed to finding a solution to the talks we have with the Republic of Greece and we sincerely believe that we will overcome this situation. Dear friends, the membership of the Republic of Macedonia in the EU is our strategic interest, there is absolute agreement between all parties, citizens' support is also great. However, regardless of the reforms we have made contrary to the fact that we are constantly getting positive assessments we are not looking forward to, we are not looking forward to because successes are not worth our entry into the next phase of our integration into the Union. For years, we have received positive reports from the European Commission with recommendations for starting membership negotiations but the Union's council does not endorse such a recommendation because of its opposition to Greece. Yet it is a reality, as difficult as it may be, we must face it, move on with the help of our friends, do everything we can to modernise society, in accordance with Union standards. In this sense, I would like to thank from this place quite sincerely for the overall assistance that Croatia is giving Macedonia on its way to the EU, for us it is an invaluable wealth that allows us to implement planned reforms as easily as possible. The experience of the Croatian selflessly shared with us enables us to overcome difficult obstacles on the way to full membership. At the same time, we are grateful for diplomatic and political assistance and support, we also thank for countless speeches, praises and for the praises that Croatian representatives are doing in favour of the Republic of Macedonia at the most different levels in the EU institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, the future of the region in which we live has to be and will be different from the unpleasant past we have in our recent history when we lay the foundations of independence. I'm sure we have the strength and capacity to do that. Macedonian Croatian relations are without a doubt a model for the region, but also for Europe. With the successes and results we have on the bilateral agenda, we raise standards for other countries in our immediate neighbourhood but for the rest of the European countries, we have something to be proud of. We establish strong relations that guarantee that Macedonian Croatian friendship develops and improves in the future. I convey my greetings to you and to the citizens of Macedonia. I convey to you sincere friendly emotions and great expectations. The father of Croatian independence Dr. Franjo Tudjman once said, I quote: "We have something to build our history on, we have why to be historical and keep what we created, let's know that our fate is only in our hands." The end of the quote. In the end, I'm going to add just one thing to the statement. Let us be proud and keep what we have created in our relationship. Let us be aware of the size of our work. Let the Macedonian Croatian friendship last forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u64080	I thank his Excellency Mr Trajk Veljanovski, President of the Republic of Macedonia's Parliament for his address, and I wish him a pleasant stay in the Republic of Croatia during his official visit. Thank you. I'm setting a break of 15 minutes. It's 10.40 o'clock. We continue with: 36th final proposal of the road traffic and road inspection law, second reading, P.Z. No. 478. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport, Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session. Zdenko Antesic, deputy minister with associates, is with us. Deputy, intro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66958	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and representatives of this House of Commons. As the Republic of Croatia became members of the EU on 1 July 2013, thus taking on a number of legislation in the field of road and road transport, the need for harmonisation of the Law on road and road inspection, with a number of applicable rules and laws in the field of road and road transport, which have already been brought into line with EU rules. The normative basis of the applicable system in the field of road and road transport constitute the Road Act, Road Transport Act, Working Time Act, Mandatory Holidays of Mobile Workers and Devices is recorded in road transport, Road Safety Act, Road Transport Act, Dangerous Matters Transport Act. Subject harmonisation aims to ensure that the quality and efficiency of inspection supervision of the implementation of those laws is as effective as possible. The proposal for a new Law on road traffic inspection and roads would make the work of inspection more effective and transparent. The paper on the structure and organisation of the inspection is necessary, as well as the guidance and monitoring of work in accordance with the above-mentioned laws that have been brought into line with the EU acquis. This law regulates, firstly, the supervision of the implementation of regulations of the laws of sublegal and other regulations in the field of public road transport of passengers, public road transport of freight, road safety, transport for own and personal use, transport of dangerous substances, provision of stationary services on bus and freight stations, maintenance, protection, reconstruction of road construction, working hours of mobile workers, control of road transport recording and control workshops for checking, inspection, installation, examination of tachographs. Secondly, the proposal for this law on road and road inspection would determine the precise definition of the powers and rules of conduct of the inspector, the adoption of an annual work programme, the establishment of special units and mobile inspection teams and international cooperation. EU work. Furthermore, the paper in the proposal of the Law on road traffic inspection and roads is a permanent and continuous specialist education of inspectors, control of transporter information systems, control of databases and other supervised entities, control of loads in and on vehicles, control of mass of vehicle with and without load and control of axle load and dimensions of vehicle with and without load. The paper in the proposal of the Law on road traffic inspection and roads is also an extension of the powers of inspectors in the part of the service of marked vehicles with light and sound equipment, then the building of photorecords and the requirement to sample the testing of construction material, then the establishment of the basis for supervision of performances and the obligation to inform the applicant of the work of the representative, the examination of the taxi vehicle in the case of legal persons, the extension of the time limit of the vehicle’s exclusion from traffic, the possibility of removing the lack of a oral solution and the regulation of the deadlines. The paper is also part of the work of overseeing and adopting a solution on the authority of the inspector in such a way as to abolish the Board of Appeals whose members are appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the possibility of launching the administrative dispute with the complaint is prescribed. The adoption of this law will result in the harmonisation and application of the rules in the field of road transport and roads with the provisions of specific laws, with the aim of enabling and obtaining the power to exercise control over the application of the same and the effective internal control system, regular supervision and removal of various irregularities. All the first reading observations which were held on 21 October 2013 were incorporated into this final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66959	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of HDZ Representative Branko Boxti's Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66960	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy with his associates. Here is the applicable Law on road traffic and road inspection, which also makes the normative basis of the applicable system a structure, businesses, mode of work, powers and obligations of road and road inspection as well as specific conditions for the appointment of inspectors. In the meantime, the Croatian Parliament discussed and passed the Law on Road Transport, Working Time Act, Mandatory Holidays of Mobile Workers and Road Traffic Recording Devices, Road Traffic Safety Act, the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Substances, which brought the paper and extended the obligations of road traffic inspection, which operates within the Transport Control Department as a sector in the Ministry of Transport, Maritime and Infrastructure. As it may be possible to overlap the powers of road transport because customs or police, if they establish certain irregularities in their supervision, act in accordance with the laws which are authorised, it is good that road traffic inspection is teamed up and educated to carry out its work as best and quality as possible. The entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU has brought direct application of the regulations to implement EU directives regulating social legislation and road transport of freight and passengers into domestic legislation. By reading the applicable law, I have not noticed greater differences than what we have received as a brand new law. Practically 80% of the provisions have been transposed from the old to the new proposal, although I believe it could have been resolved by amendments and additions to the existing one, which was adopted in '99 with slight changes in 2011. It is possible that the applicant wanted to lay down in more detail the unsettled powers of the inspector in particular in the adoption of administrative measures in order to increase the scope of the inspection control in the area of the social part of traffic legislation. Why is road traffic inspection important? One available report for 2013 shows that, in accordance with the annual work programme of the road traffic inspection service, road traffic inspectors took inspection actions during the first three months of 2013 and determined administrative and infringement measures in their jurisdiction in respect of the supervision of the application of the following legal provisions. With regard to the supervision of compliance with the provisions of the Road Transport Act, road traffic inspectors carried out a total of 1457 inspections in the first three months of 2013 establishing 372 offences and charged 844 thousand kuna and imposed a million 325 thousand criminal penalties on the basis of 154 a mandatory criminal order and the judgments of infringement courts received. As regards the supervision of compliance with the provisions of the Law on the transport of dangerous substances, a total of 151 checks have been carried out with 53 infringements. Only 16 thousand were charged on the basis of mandatory violations and 335,000 criminal penalties were imposed. The supervision of compliance with the provisions of the Working Time Act is carried out through three segments through the control of driver's working hours on roads, through the monitoring of working hours and keeping the necessary records on companies and through the supervision of workshops for tachographs. A total of 1011 inspections have been carried out, establishing 732 infringements, etc. It is important, then, that we have three out of the five drivers on the road in violation depending on the legal proposals in which the traffic is located. It seems to me that my colleague, Pleše, mentioned in his first reading, pointed out the work of inspections related to the taxi company, and it is important, or current, to me that a taxi company that works in Rijeka is of a total of 39 taxi drivers 31 without that mandatory professional equipment. So he's got a category B driver, but he doesn't have a finished driver's school. So it will be interesting, or interesting to see a decision on a complaint that could endanger the company's serious business. Of course, I'm not too worried about knowing which company it is, but whatever it means, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66961	Thank you, too. We have a replica, Ante Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66962	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister. My colleague, you said in your speech that we should increase the powers of the inspection and that I agree with, I said on the board, first we have a small number of inspectors in my county of Split-Dalmatia, we are too large, 55 cities and municipalities, just one inspector I think has which covers but big problems from buses carrying primary school children, especially in rural areas where they give one condition in competitions and then tomorrow when they start driving then they ride with quite other buses that are not adequate, which have no conditions and which do not meet the legal obligations. And I think in this law, it should be more stringent, more rigorously solved in a way that, when they are in the transport of children, they should be deprived of their licenses, they should be banned from transport. The other big problem is the van rides around the cities. Here in Split a big problem of a wild van transport that parallelly drives lines practically city transport. And what a competition they are is that they drive without any permission. And then third, no powers practically inspector, inspector in any action and stop it, hand over to the police, he starts driving again in five days. So I don't know if this law can do it any more rigorously in a way that when such a vehicle in such a violation is found to be taken away by a vehicle and that more, now I know it's personal property and it can't be taken away easily but we do, we need to find out which laws it can be solved that such a vehicle and such an unauthorized carrier are sanctioned in a way that's stricter way than it is right now. And I'm particularly saying this increase in the number of inspectors that are vitally important that this could be implemented properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66963	Thank you. A colleague's answer to the box, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66964	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Sanader absolutely agrees that the priority, or emphasis should be placed on the transport of vehicles, or buses when it comes to school children. So we are witnessing practically that more than half of the population in the Republic of Croatia lives in these rural areas. And given the existing structure, but given how much we understand district schools that have a small number of students will be abolished and thus will obviously reduce the number of these vehicles. Nevertheless, it is absolutely necessary to place an emphasis on the quality of the vehicle in which these school children are transported. And so I agree and I'm a witness to the fact that in the smaller environments, wild taxi drivers are really a big problem. And the appeal and suggestion also means to you who are now the deputy in that position and future or present inspectors that this black market must definitely be regulated.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66965	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Tomislav Žagar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66966	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club supports the adoption of a proposal for a road and road inspection law. The main reasons for this are the more transparent and efficient work of the inspection, compliance with the practice of traffic inspection in other Member States of the European Union, the paper on the structure and organisation of inspection and the guidance and control of the work of inspection in accordance with the laws that have assumed the obligation to comply with the legal acquis of the European Union. And since the laws on which the inspection is carried out have been harmonised with the regulations of the European Union in this way, the applicability and compliance of the rules in the field of road transport and roads with the provisions of specific laws: Road Transport Act, Road Law, Working Time Act, Mandatory Holidays of Mobile Workers and Road Traffic Recording Devices, Road Transport Act, Road Safety Act. In the SDP Club, we therefore believe that this legislative proposal is good because it defines and provides for more quality and efficient inspection supervision of the implementation of the provisions of the laws relating to road and road safety. Here is a brief indication that this legal case regulates the rights, duties and powers of inspectors and authorised inspection officers as well as which tasks other than surveillance inspectors carry out and lists the rights and obligations of inspectors in carrying out inspection controls. What is particularly important is prescribed by the powers of inspection in the exercise of supervision and the conditions where inspectors are authorised to examine business premises, vehicles, equipment, as well as business books, cargo review, plans, programmes, contracts and other documentation, measuring the mass of the vehicle, checking the condition of the roads, carrying out road maintenance works and their safety belt. The precise definition of these powers is very important precisely because of the fact that there are a number of difficulties that inspectors will face in their work, especially in terms of jurisdiction in relation to the different before those specific laws. Therefore, the powers of issuing a temporary ban are defined both in the course of inspection and the conditions of temporary exclusion of the vehicle from traffic. What we support in particular in the SDP Club and given the number of problems that have arisen and which appear on a daily basis and is directly related to the safety of all traffic users, is the possibility that an inspector in carrying out inspection controls on the use of roads, planning, construction and maintenance of public roads is authorized to order actions that eliminate road deficiencies, temporary suspensions of works if they are contrary to the provisions of the law, the suspension of traffic and other activities if it is found that traffic cannot be done in a safe manner. In terms of transparency and the public's work, what we particularly welcome is the prescribed obligation to keep an eye on the inspections carried out and the measures taken under the regulations adopted by the minister responsible for transport. Finally, since this legislative proposal defines clear powers and responsibilities for certain procedures, ensures transparency and simplicity of the procedure, quality and efficient inspection supervision, effective internal control system and regular supervision, preventing the removal of various irregularities, the SDP club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66967	Thanks, buddy. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66968	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Deputy Minister. The HDSSB club will also support this Final Bill on Road and Road Control. In the accompanying material for this final bill proposal, I would not repeat myself in all articles, but rather say what the representatives of HDZ and SDP clubs have said. Just to point out that I would say and commendably that each article has been defined, that since that first reading you have included all those remarks that were highlighted during that reading it seems to me in October of last year and how we see these two clubs preceding which there have been no specific remarks because in this law almost defined are all, roles, tasks, and also the possibilities that traffic inspection to say so or to cut short, performs. This Final Proposal for a Law on road and road inspection, so both traffic and roads, expects more efficient, more transparent and says here and more efficiently, although more efficient and efficient, I do not know how to translate more efficiently except more efficient. So one word unnecessarily in the very explanation of this law. So, too little sneezing, but more efficient, more transparent work and practice Traffic inspection, which through these legislative proposals is actually in line and with almost permanent and permanent changes in the field of European legislation, because we know that the European Parliament, as well as its Transport Committee, is called..., is making permanent provisions regarding road traffic and roads, starting with the amount of CO2 in engines, starting with the transport of live animals and all other aspects of road traffic and control that can carry out inspections. I think that this law is also finally rounding up all the jobs that Traffic Inspection is doing, covered, prescribed, clearly presented, expressed and those criminal provisions, infringing provisions, and I don't really think there's much to comment on or criticise about this final bill. Simply this Final Proposal for a Law on road traffic inspection and roads should be adopted on what the HDSSB Club will do and support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66969	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66970	Now we move on to a statement on the done points of order. Final proposal on road and road inspection, second reading, P.Z. No. 478. The debate on the final bill is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I'd like to ask the motionary's representative to manifest himself. Deputy Minister, respected Zdenko Antesic, has declared to accept the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives, thus becoming, all amendments to the Legislative Committee have been accepted by the proposings, becoming an integral part of the final draft law. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. The adoption of the law requires most of the votes of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament, i.e. 76 votes in accordance with Article 252. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Please make a statement. Who's for the final bill? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 114 votes for the adopted Law on road traffic inspection and roads in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66971	We're going to 37. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on cableways for the transport of persons, second reading, CZ No. 479 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session. Is the vice-introductory on behalf of the motionor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66972	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. In the Republic of Croatia, the area of cableways has been governed by the Law on cableways for the transport of persons and rules adopted under that law, with which full compliance has been achieved with Directive 2000/9 of the European Community on cableways for the transport of persons and is the same... in the European Commission. The primary objective of the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on cableways for the transport of persons is to comply with the provisions of the Law on concessions. The current Law on cableways for the transport of persons requires that concessions acquire the right to build certain types of cableways and to operate cableways that involve the economic use of cableways. In accordance with the provisions of the concession law, it is laid down that concessions can be granted, firstly for the economy, the use of general or other goods, secondly for public works and thirdly for public services. Concessions for the economic use of general and other goods within the meaning of this law shall be given for the construction and management of cableways for the purpose of performing exclusively commercial activity and without the obligation to provide public service. The concession gives the right to use the general or other goods which are legally determined to be of good interest to the Republic of Croatia and good property of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the unit of local or regional (regional) self-government. The concession for public services and concessions for public works within the meaning of this Act shall be granted for the right to provide public transport services to persons, i.e. for the construction of cableways for the purpose of the provision of public transport services. The public service will be considered to provide public service and construction of a public service for the purpose of providing public service if such service or performance of such works is provided in a manner and subject to the conditions laid down by the concession provider which includes but is not limited to the determination of the route covered by the cableway, the capacity of the cabler, the availability and the frequency of the service. In the case of a concession for public works or concessions for public services, the law provides that the facility shall pass, after the expiry of the concession contract, on the property of the concession provider without compensation. The law lays down that concessions are not to be granted for the tow, and that all issues relating to concessions in the area of cableways which are not governed by law apply to the provisions of the Law on concessions. Go on. The law lays down that concessions are granted by the competent authorities of the local self-government unit with the prior consent of the State Office for the Management of State Property, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Transport, and that the compensation from concessions is the income of the budget of the local self-government units. It is also established that the competent authorities must initiate the concession procedure for existing cableways no later than one year from the entry into force of this law. The other provisions of the law shall be exempt from the application of the same water skiing wheel and the provisions of the investigating body shall be repealed. It is also predicted that an investigation into extraordinary events is the responsibility of the cable manager without prejudice to the obligation to investigate serious accidents and accidents by the authorities of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66973	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We'll stop working. I would ask all MPs in as many as possible to be in the hall and welcome the president of the Macedonian Parliament. We'll continue the debate later. I'd pray we don't lift. So here's to about five, six minutes. That's what's said. It's 10:00.17. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.55 HOURS]] On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66975	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Deputy Minister with his associates. The SDP Club supports the final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on cableways for the transport of persons. As regards the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Transport of Persons, they were introduced as we heard in the opening presentation of the Deputy Minister and some kind of change, they are purely nomotechnical. In addition, two new articles relating to, determines the infringement provisions, i.e. the way in which the payment is made, accounts for the commission's expenses for carrying out the examination of the knowledge and professional examinations of the betraying workers. We can repeat here that the fundamental reason why this law is proposed is actually based on the need to comply with the Law on cableways for the transport of persons with the provisions of the Law on concessions, and it is also in line with EU legislation. It is established in accordance with the Law on concessions, that concessions for economic use, general and other goods, and concessions for public works, public service concessions are also defined. Concessions shall be provided by the competent authorities of the local self-government units with the prior consent of the State Administration Office. The Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Ministry of Transport, Maritime Affairs, Infrastructure. As far as the concessionaires' relationship, i.e. local self-government and the concessionee, is concerned, it is a concession agreement. In particular, the contract provides relations, the subject matter of the concession, the time at which the concession applies, the amount of the concession fee, the same way of payment, or the measures of conservation and protection of the environment, or the obligations of the concessionaires and, of course, the other relevant data. As far as concession fees are concerned, they are the revenues of the budget of the units of local self-government. They are also determined by this law and exemptions from the payment of concession fees. I must point out that here is a maximum period of 50 years. Of course, that deadline shall be taken into account both the investment levels and the economic effects that the concessionary may achieve. I think this law is actually going to introduce a relationship structure and it's actually going to solve some of the misunderstandings that have existed so far because of the absence of the law. And I'm going to mention here to the cableman Srđ who is one of the nine cable companies mentioned, she's actually dated back in 1969, which is actually, in fact, the former Atlas cableman who drove tourists to Srđ since '69. the year until '91. when the war was actually bombed. During this period, the cable car was transported by millions of passengers, and Atlas paid 10% of the annual income left over in that working community of cableways in Dubrovnik. After being converted into a reconstruction of the cableway is Excelsa for real estate, they invested their money, 5 million euros and from July 2010 until today it is a new old, we can call it a tourist attraction and that is what must be seen when it comes to Dubrovnik and it is a good source, of course income. However, regardless of what society is and we have read in the media, it has actually launched this reconstruction of the cabler and it has invested money, but there is only approval for work, and the concession, or the relationship between the city of local self-government and concessionaires, was not possible because there was no such thing as this concession law. Because it is a panoramic cableway and it is actually an unrepeated view of Dubrovnik and it is precisely because it is good that this relationship can be solved by concessioning because when you look at the city of Dubrovnik you should invest and pay for historical monuments and the entire infrastructure, maintaining the greenery of parks, cleaning the streets, etc., etc. And the concession fee goes entirely in favour of the budget of the units of local self-government which, of course, we welcome. Next, of course, the contract between the city of Dubrovnik as local self-government and concessionaires. In the end, I would like to say that I think this law will contribute to the exploitation of our potentials. That this is a good law not only to solve these relations but also to be good for the economy, that it will actually help exploit our beauty, whether for the purpose of tourism or for the development of the economy, here is an example of the cabler at Srdje can be an example of others and I hope that those who have thought both in Omis and Učka and other cablers Makarska, Biokova etc. This is a project, these are projects that are very important to the local community, actually what these familiar cases show. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66976	Thank you, too. On behalf of HDZ Representative Branko Boxti's Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66977	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the current Law on cableways for the transport of persons. Among other things, the acquisition of the right to build certain types of cableways and to operate cableways that involve the economic use of them. The two most important newspapers of this law are that, in accordance with EU legislation on cableways, it is not envisaged to conduct a survey of cableway accidents by an independent investigating body and the provisions on the investigating body are abolished by law, the concept of a serious accident is corrected. The definition of a serious accident is an extraordinary event in the cableway which, for the resulting reason, had a death or a serious physical injury to at least one person or a major material damage to the devices and so far under the same concept, was an extraordinary event in the traffic of a cable car that also had a death or serious physical injury to at least one person or major material damage to the devices of the cable and the environment. And large material damage is damage that can immediately be estimated at least three million kunas in the investigating body. This is in line with the Law on concessions, it is established that in the area of cableways they can provide concessions for the economic use of general or other goods, public works concessions and public service concessions. It also provides for exemptions from concessions and exemptions from the payment of concession fees. The concessions shall be given by the competent authorities of the local self-government units with the prior consent of the State Office for the Management of State Property, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. The remuneration of the concession is the budget of the units of local self-government. The issue posed by this amendment and supplementation is the abolition of an independent investigative body. In a public debate, several objections were made to this particular segment with a rather formal response from the applicant. So EU legislation does not recognise this, recognises only air, maritime and rail transport. The cable manager under this law has been assigned to investigate extraordinary events, and I assume the police and investigative judges then for more serious accidents. The state of cableways in the Republic of Croatia and Croatia, in all, seems to me to be only three cableways and 13 tows serving primarily for winter tourism. A few of them are out of use, and a few are also... some of them are colleagues before me mentioned, first of all about future projects related to tourism, it is the Rabac-Labin tourist wire, then Makarska-Biokovo, Opatija-Učka and one is in the area of my county that is Žicara Jasenica-Sv. The Rock of the Hunting Community. Some projects are systematically run, so are the companies of Žicara Učka-Opatija, Žicara Biokovo in Makarska, although it was announced that already in 2012 which was meant to drive towards Biokovo, unfortunately it did not happen. I hope so. So you're also working on some other cableways intensively. My colleague Bonačić mentioned before me our oldest cabler, which was founded in '69. in Dubrovnik, and unfortunately it was devastated through the Homeland War. Its example shows that something had to be done on this issue, given that the current concessionaire, or Grupacija Luksic, had invested the five million euros mentioned, and that local self-government had no use or that the current user had not paid the same fee as you also mentioned that it had been paid before the Homeland War to the former municipality of Dubrovnik. So on behalf of the HDZ Club, we will support the adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66978	Thank you, too. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66979	Thank you very much. Before I leave Mr. Vice President in the debate, I must point out one suitable anecdote, no offense to anyone. Namely, when the Turks began to get high in the 18th century in Montenegro, then the commander of the Montenegrin army came to the prince and asked "Is all the artillery to be placed on Lovcen", and he said "Yes, yes, both cannons". So these three cablemen we have have three not two, and I don't know two or three now we can discuss the qualification of these cableways, frame them in the mold of this law in the hope that this number will still be increased as said by a colleague Bonačić, as well as a colleague from the HDZ that we will be based on this law which should be encouraged to get cablers not only in these places or in these areas that are spoken of here and this is Makarska down to St. It's just like that on the top of Biokova, isn't it, Mr. Babic? It's our old area, then Labin, then Opatija-Učka and Jasenica-St. Rock. I hope that in our Slavonia too there will be those who will be interested in, not equal is that the biggest hill of pumpkins but we have Papuk, we have Velika, Jankovic invite you to come and visit our forest and mountain beauty Slavonia which may be abandoned and insufficiently used in that sense. But there's a lot to say about Papuk, especially those who come from these areas. So about the concession on cableways for construction, for the work of cableways and all of this for 50 years as it says here clearly that the tows are explicitly excluded from it, so those ski lifts obviously have nothing to add. This makes it clear, therefore, that in each segment both the concessionaire and the local self-government, it is clear that this is prescribed by the law of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with the directives and recommendations of the European legislation to which we are forced by signing and entering the EU to implement it. This is why the HDDSB club is also for this legislative proposal in the hope that I will not now read these articles in terms of concessions for public works, for the use of general or other goods, which may be the only thing that may result in certain obstacles in the implementation of this law. In this regard, the article here states Article 2.b. for the purposes of the construction of reconstruction and maintenance of cableways for the transport of persons, the rules on the authorisation shall apply. Therefore, private owners or local property, but there should be no problem since they, the local self-government must comply with the Law on Execution. Therefore, the cableways are classified of interest, in the category of interest for the Republic of Croatia, and therefore also applies to them. There can therefore be certain misunderstandings, and it is revealed whether and delaying the process of construction of cableways in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. About this, the values of the panoramic view of the journey by cable to the top of Srdje and the values of the other cableways should not be spoken of really. Although there was a tram in Dubrovnik, it is, but here today it's gone as far as I know, whether, and it was a tourist attraction like this cable car on Srđ. Security measures and aspects have also been kept here by the law. Except that all the cargo was transferred to the cable manager and he's responsible for that, for safety. But also to point out the visible location of the driver's safety certificate, the cable service, the last service, etc. It is therefore all regulated and man simply does not have any specific remarks in terms of God that this law is exactly applicable here and that the basis of this law would give us one regulated area in which the conditions for the development, construction and operation of cableways and throughout Croatia apply not only to these two cannons, pardon, to all three cableways which I was talking about at first, but also to be an incentive for a Renaissance, I would say cable for the transport of passengers, panoramic views, tourist views, so for one commercial purpose of which it will benefit primarily units, every unit of local self-government on whose territory, in whose territory this cable is built, or who gets a concession on construction and work of cableways. There, the HDSSB Club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66980	This concludes the debate. We'll vote later. We'll stop working now. At 12 o'clock, please, all MPs and deputies will be voting. It's 11:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66981	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on cableways for the transport of persons, second reading, P.Z. No. 479. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like the respected Deputy Minister of Transport, Maritime Affairs and Infrastructure Zdenko Antesic to take note of the Committee's amendment. Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 116 votes to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on cableways for the transport of persons in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. Thank you very much, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66982	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.05 HOURS]] There are 98 MPs and representatives present. We can start with a vote. 110. A report from the Mandate-Immunity Commission please the chairman of the Commission to Mrs Gordan Sobol to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66983	Thank you, Madam Vice President. At its 30th session held on 9 January 2014, the mandate-immunity committee discussed the request of the Municipal Court in Zadar of 20 December 2013 for the authorisation of the continuation of the criminal proceedings against Ante Jerolimov, a representative in the Croatian Parliament, on grounds of reasonable doubt that he committed a criminal offence against the environment by illegal construction referred to in Articles 252a(1) and 2. Penalty law. Ante Jerolimov's deputy representative's office began acting on 24 September 2013 and under the Constitution and Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, he has immunity until the end of the parliamentary term, and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament, no criminal proceedings can be initiated. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia The Rules of Procedure are prescribed that between the meetings of the Assembly, a decision on the request to proceed with the criminal proceedings shall be taken by the Mandate-Immunity Commission, with the decision being subsequently confirmed by the Croatian Parliament at the next session. Following the discussion, the Mandate-Immunity Commission unanimously decided to grant authorisation to continue criminal proceedings against representatives of Ante Jerolimov at the request of the Municipal Court in Zadar from 20 December 2013. In its work, the Mandate-Immunity Commission has taken and adhered to the principle that, in cases where a request for conduct, or the continuation of criminal proceedings is brought by the State's Attorney's Office or the Court of Justice, the approval should be granted in order to ensure that it continues to carry out its duties in an uninterrupted manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66984	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in? Does anyone mind? The abstentions? There isn't. I find that with 105 votes, a unanimous decision has been taken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66985	Thank you. The mandate-immunity committee discussed at the 31st session held on 23 January 2014 the request of the attorney-in-chief Milan Bandic of Zagreb for the authorisation of the conduct of criminal proceedings against Igor Radinovic for the criminal offence referred to in Article 148(2). Penalty law. Igor Radjenović is a representative of the 7th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and has immunity until the end of the parliamentary term and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against it cannot be initiated or prosecuted. The mandate-immunity commission unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament that the decision be taken for the duration of the parliamentary term of office is denied the authorisation to conduct criminal proceedings against Representative Igor Radinovic in the private lawsuit of Prosecutor Milan Bandic of Zagreb for the criminal offence of disgrace, which was brought to the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb. Namely, the Mandate-Immunity Commission has taken the principle that in the case of private prosecutors, as well as cases where the injured person, as a subsidiary prosecutor, enters into the position of a state attorney because the state's attorney found that there is no basis for the initiation or conduct of a criminal proceedings, the Commission will propose to the Croatian Assembly a denial of the authorisation. The criminal proceedings may also be initiated after the end of the term of office, since the statute of limitations does not run until there are reasonable reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66986	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in? Does anyone mind? The abstentions? I find that the decision has been made by 104 votes for and 2 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66987	Now we move on to decision-making, voting on the topics processed. First we go to the Mandate-Immunity Commission report. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, respected by Gordan Sobol, to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66988	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity committee discussed a written statement on the resignation of Damir Jelic at the 32nd session held on 31 January 2014. The commission found that MP Damir Jelic started acting as deputy representative Andrej Plenkovic on 1 July 2013. By resigning from office, the conditions laid down by law for the termination of Damir Jelic's term of office have been laid down. The Croatian Democratic Community in accordance with Article 12. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has ordered that MP Andrej Plenkovic be replaced by Nada Murganic. The mandate-immunity commission has determined that the conditions for the termination of Damir Jelic's parliamentary mandate and the start of acting as deputy deputy representative, Nada Murganic. The mandate-immunity committee shall be based on Articles 10, 11 and 12. The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament proposes to the Croatian Parliament to take the following decisions on the termination of the representative's term of office, Damir Jelic, from 31 January 2014 and the start of acting as deputy deputy representative, Nada Murganic, on 31 January 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66989	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66990	Dear Mr. President, I believe that the fact taken out by the esteemed President, Mrs. Sobol, is correct, but we have received written material on this item of the agenda on the termination of the representative's term of office and the start of acting as deputy deputy. I really hope this is a reflection of an incorrect and imprecise job, not of any intention, in accordance with Article 12. The Law on Elections is never the Croatian Democratic Party proposed to replace MPs, as far as we are directed, the Croatian Democratic Party is not a parliamentary party, so we would ask you to at least fix it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66991	Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66992	Dear President, we have noticed tipfeller, I really ask that it be understood that way, and if you have listened to me carefully, I have read the Croatian Democratic Community as I read the report. In the meantime, I've informed my committee service that they're making a new report with an exact name. It's really a tipfeller. I don't think there should be a problem about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66993	Thank you very much. Everything okay? No comment. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 116 votes. Thank you very much. It's an oath. The oath shall be given in a way that the president shall read the text of the oath, and thereafter the representative, when called, shall rise and say, 'I swear.' The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia." Representative Nada Murganić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66994	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66995	Thank you very much and congratulations. . I want the oath to be fully realized. [[Applause.]] Let's move on. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day I propose to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to supplement the agenda of the point – Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Any of the MPs object to the inclusion in the agenda of the Reports of the Mandate-Immunity Commission? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been completed. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to report to Mrs. Gordan Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66997	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At its 33rd session held on 14 February 2014, the mandate committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed a written statement by MP Vesna Škare-Ozbolt of 10 February 2014 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament on the start of the conduct of the parliamentary duties in accordance with the provision of Article 14(3). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The commission found that the stay of the parliamentary mandate of Vesni Skare-Ozbolt was selected from the list of the Croatian Democratic Community and the Democratic Centre in the sixth election unit started on 22 December 2011 on the basis of Article 14(1). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, and that Ivanka Roksandić began acting as deputy deputy MP on the same day. In line with the request submitted, the Mandate-Immunity Commission proposes to the Croatian Parliament to take the decision to suspend the term of office of representative Vesna Škare-Ozbolt from the day of 18 February 2014 and to suspend the behaviour of deputy deputy representative Ivanka Roksandić from the day of 18 February 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66998	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please establish a quorum. There are 106 MPs in the hall. We can decide. I am voting on the proposal for a decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in? Who's against it? Restraint? So I'm determining that the decision was reached unanimously with 106 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u66999	Let's discuss this Mandate-Immunity Commission report first. I'd like the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to report to Mrs. Gordan Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u67000	At the 34th session held on 28 March 2014, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed the written request of Agent Denesh Soja, who informed the President of the Croatian Parliament, in accordance with Article 14(1). The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament puts the parliamentary mandate to stand still on 1 April 2014. The Committee found that Danes Soja was elected representative in the 7th Assembly of the Croatian Parliament under Article 17(2). The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament as a member of the Hungarian national minority and has not yet exercised its right to put the parliamentary mandate on hold. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, representatives of national minorities replace the deputy elected in the same constituency. As deputy representative of Denesh Soya in the 12th election unit, Shandor Juhas was elected. The mandate-immunity committee has established that the conditions for the start of the stay of Denesh Soja's parliamentary mandate have been met, as well as the conditions for the start of acting as deputy representative of Sandor Juhas, and the unanimous commission proposes to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision on the rest of the parliamentary mandate and the start of acting as deputy MPs. In 1.4.2014, the term of office of representative Denesh Soja shall begin to rest, and Deputy Representative Shandor Juhas shall begin in accordance with the provision of Article 9(2). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. on 4 April 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u67001	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a motion for a decision. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? What's the score? I find it unanimous with 96 votes for the proposed decision. Thank you very much. Now we'd like to make an oath, a solemn statement. The oath shall be given in a way that the President or the Chairman shall read the text of the oath, and after that, the representative shall, when called, rise and pronounce, swear. The text of the oath reads: I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order, and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia. Representative Shandor Juhas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u67002	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u67003	Thank you very much. Congratulations, colleague Juhas. [[Applause.]] I want you to carry out your parliamentary duty in accordance with your solemn oath to help us all improve the position of both the Parliament and our duties of execution. Thank you very much. I would now return to my esteemed colleague, President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, to propose a new decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u67004	Thank you, Mr. President. At the 35th session held on 31 March 2014, the Management Board of the Croatian Parliament of the County of State Attorneys of Vukovar on 24 March 2014 discussed the request of the County State Attorney in Vukovar to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Zeljko Saba, a representative in the Croatian Parliament, on grounds of reasonable doubt that he committed a criminal offence against the property of fraud referred to in Article 233(1) and (2) and a criminal offence against official duty by inciting the abuse of the position of power referred to in Article 377(1). Penalty law. Željko Sabo is a representative of the 7th meeting of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of the article and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office has been terminated and shall not be open or prosecuted without a decision of the Croatian Parliament. The mandate-immunity commission unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the next decision. An authorisation shall be granted for the initiation of criminal proceedings against MPs Željko Saba at the request of the County State Attorney's Office in Vukovar from 24 March of this year, sent by the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia on 26 March of this year on the grounds of reasonable suspicion that he has committed a criminal offence against property, embezzlement referred to in Article 233(1) and (2) and a criminal offence against official duty, inciting abuse of position and powers referred to in Article 337(1). Penalty law. The mandate-immunity committee has decided to grant authorisation to initiate the Criminal Procedure against MPs in the Croatian Assembly of the Željko Saba at the request of the State Attorney's Office as an independent and independent judicial body authorised and obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal offences and other criminal offences in order to be able to carry out its duties without delay, which, by virtue of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, is given to jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-24-0.u67005	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'd like to make a statement about the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 97 votes for the proposed decision in the text as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, we continue at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament on the established agenda. It is now time - - - Report by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia on the European Council meetings held in 2013: In accordance with Article 11. The Law on the Cooperation of the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European Affairs, once a year, brings a report to the Parliament on the European Council meetings held last year at the beginning of the first annual session. You've received reports. I welcome the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and ask him to submit an opening statement. Here you go, Prime Minister.
