ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u64304	Mr. President, by calling for Article 144. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to ask for your help. On 19 June 2012, I addressed the written parliamentary question to Minister of Finance, Mr Linić and the emergency office on 18 October 2012 because I did not get an answer to the written question. Second, on June 05, 2012, I addressed the parliamentary issue in writing to the Prime Minister, Zoran Milanovic, and on October 18, 2012 the rush to get an answer and believe me, the answers have not come to this day. Since it is important issues directly related to the interests of 160 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I ask you to comply with Article 144. Rules of Procedure, you are influencing the Prime Minister and Prime Minister, although the delay in the given response has been rudely long, to answer my parliamentary questions within 8 days. I don't have another reaction mechanism because rushes in writing don't have any effect.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u64305	I understand, Your Honor. We will ask for answers to parliamentary questions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as soon as possible. Thank you very much. I see another hand. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u64306	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, I am looking for a break of 10 minutes so that we can discuss the phenomenon or talk here in the Assembly about the problem of malnourished children in primary schools. Here, and because of this mockery, I'm going to talk about a smile that the Social Democrats laugh at 4% of malnourished children. So this is what I was supposed to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u64307	Please, we have a standard, we'll satisfy that, of course, I don't think the debate will help anything, but if you ask for it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to deliver a report or at least parliamentary questions if you ask, we'll get more, especially if we have a proposal for an act to solve this problem, but you'll get it. Are there others interested in the subject? There isn't. There's, uh, good to hear. Well, I won't talk you into it yet. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u64308	On the same subject that counterpart Vuksic presented, I would ask for the same break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u64309	Boro Grubisic, on behalf of the HDSSB club. Goran Maric. Maric, same theme, Honorable Representative Maric? Thank you very much. I'll see you at... What?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u64310	No vision of this malnutrition, visas of opportunity in the tourist community of the Republic of Croatia, but in parallel with this and on the trail of Mr. Lesar's question, Mr. President, try to use your influence, try to use your authority and try under quotes from the most transparent city in Croatia, the city of Pula, to get an answer to one of my representative questions, how much money do they spend to finance PR agencies, media, intellectual services and so on? I recently received a reply from Minister Bauk that by the legal deadline, it seems that the answer was due on 03.03, he or their ministry didn't get an answer to my written question, it's been more than a month...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u64311	We understand what you're looking for. They don't have to ask questions, that's what we're gonna... [[I can see they're not twitching.]] Please, it's important that institutions do business, and the President of the Parliament is together with you equally here for that matter. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We can only request the opinion of the State Audit, not directly from the city of Pula or anyone to address us. So we have institutions and they will do their job, the State Audit controls spending and the City Assembly, or the City Council. So, are you looking for a break or not? Okay. About what or who? Tourist communities? What's in the tourist community?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u64312	What's in the tourist community? I see you haven't been to Croatia in a few days. It's about cleaners, it's about shifts on the matrix of the worst Bolshevik practices of '48. Or somewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u64313	Okay. I don't agree with the qualification, and it's not like I haven't read it, so there's no word on that. Tourist community, twice, club, good. Practice's like that. Okay. Thank you very much. At 9.50 we continue the session. Thank you very much. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] Now we're going to hear the views of clubs about topics that are extremely current. First respected representative Branko Vuksic on behalf of Croatian Labourists.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u64315	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Your Honor, you said at the outset that it might be better to ask a representative question and give a solution. I'll tell you why I didn't ask a representative question. Yesterday I received an answer to the parliamentary question I asked at the beginning of 2013, a year. A topic I speak for sure that it can't wait a year, and in the end, I will also propose a solution orally, and later in writing. There are three reasons, at least three reasons why I called today. The first reason for this topic, and I was just about to ask the written question of the Minister of Education, but it seems to me that yesterday, malnutrition or hunger in schools mentioned a fellow HDZ and the Social Democrats laughed at it as they laughed at it because they had no contact with reality, were driving in cars and apparently not coming out of their cabinets, and they don't even follow what's written in the media. Secondly, I got a call from several people, specifically one lady on the phone said you can talk about Cyrillic, politicize in the Parliament, and you are ashamed of hunger in Croatia. We're not ashamed, that's what we need to talk about here from the pay phone. Third, I've already been taught by the authorities that bad news should be cut off from the head, so I'm offering myself because I'm fit. The fourth reason is because many act like the French queen Maria Antoinette who said that if they do not have bread, they should eat cakes because they really have no contact with reality. I will read only a few details that do not concern Croatia, which do not concern Croatia but are alarming and one sentence later will read, it does not only happen to others. "Today, every five seconds, a child under the age of 10 dies of hunger in the world." I'm not talking to us so there won't be a hoax. "Glad was in 2004 that information was available to me killed more human beings than all wars combined. 10 million children under 5 die every year from hunger." That's the information. "About 40 million children under the age of 5 suffer from vitamin A deficiency, and every year vision loses 13 million children." And that's what someone says doesn't happen to us. It happens to us, not this drastic. School teachers warn, some are already being punished in the city of Zagreb for malnutrition, that children who are not thieves steal other children's lunches brought to school. We talked to a couple of pedagogues who say there's truth in it. Systemically, there is no diet in Croatian schools resolved and I appeal from this place that Mr. Jovanovic submits concrete information to us, to speak to the Assembly of Representatives, to address the Croatian public, and not to react as one minister reacted, they do not have any food to buy marked clothes. That's the subtlety of this government. They say that somewhere in the study, in the 5th grade of primary school, there were 3% of malnourished boys and 6% of less-fed girls due to insufficient amounts of vitamins and minerals, in the long term they could suffer the heart, intestines, kidneys, lungs, brain and eyes. Especially with children in development. Our mission here is not only to politicize but to take care, but to take care of the children and the elderly. It is our job here to be solid, to show hearing about all the problems that occur to Croatian citizens, but not even to Croatian citizens. As taught by the President of the Croatian Parliament, how to resolve not systematically, until it is resolved systemically here I have one proposal to separate the parliamentary representatives half-pasals per month for children to find a model to form a group to find a model and help schools that do not have an organized diet for children. I'll deliver that to the Parliament in writing. And once again, I ask that Minister Jovanovic address with concrete information on the subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u64316	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDSSB club, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u64317	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Just as we do not have the right to reply, I will tell Mr. Vuksic, if we set out half of the sheets, that would be enough for Brod-Posavina County and School in Brod-Posavina County. And where is Croatia, I don't know. But let's just say the Ship-Posavina County. This question is that here is slowly moving quietly through the press and other electronic media, etc. is indeed a question that at a time of economic crisis and at a time when parents, most parents of children, are blocked, so in a great minus bank, so about 300,000 people are in a bank minus, is very well placed and well formulated. Namely, who's funding it, what's the arrangements for financing school kitchens? I just received information that a local self-government, a municipality, is funding, I guess there's so much money in the budget, in the cash register, in its treasury to finance the school kitchen in the municipal town. Under the law, there is no obligation to finance any local self-government, it finance preschool education and finance possibly kindergartens, so preschool education this one before going to school and kindergarten. There's no commitment to schools. Who's got it? Is that the Ministry? Is it defined in the law that children at least in what I say to primary schools, I would not even like to talk about areas because we in Brod-Posavina County have, for example, a municipality like Garcin we have seven district schools and a central school. Or somewhere else like that. The school in Podvinj which has district schools in Pokkalje, the second school in Slavonski Brod, you have an area school in the village of Ruštica, Vrba, etc. So about district schools where there are several students or 10 students, 15, there's no kitchen talk, and in central central schools there's this kitchen that should be prepared, what should be done? A meal that would be eaten with a spoon or shared with sandwiches as it can be bought in a village store or any other child. What is it or how children go to school, especially in the morning shifts in the first shift because we know that there are on the edges of Croatia classes in two shifts, many schools in two shifts, and those who go on first shift are therefore from half eight to 12, half 1 at school, and we all say that breakfast is the most important meal in man's diet. They live on a fig tree or chips or some kind of banana, if a parent can buy it and afford it to a child. And what we have besides hunger, so we have obesity because these products that children eat and if they eat a slice of pizza somewhere in a nearby bakery, it's pasta, it's carbohydrates, so we have a problem and hunger, but also child obesity. It's not just hunger that weighs children, it's actually when they're using what they have to do with their parents' money opportunities, it's mostly carbohydrates, and then we have avitaminosis, anemia, caries, etc. The quantity in the number much higher than in any European Union country. So besides hunger, we also have the appearances of other diseases that are important if they are of childbearing importance for the development of puberty, and later in adulthood they leave consequences. This is what the ministry would have suggested, so we can be a benefactor, thank God, no one is against it, but we should systematically get rid of it in the ministry, and the ministry knows how it already works, and how it reduced the incomes, salaries to teachers, teachers, and how it works with school employees, let alone how it works with children. So he's misbehaving and he's a bad employee, and we're not talking about kids. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u64318	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club on two subjects, what are we gonna do? ... What do we do for two breaks, break after break? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Goran Maric on the topic on the agenda on behalf of the club. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That way we can do as much as you want, it's...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u64319	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Many think that they are the most sensitive part of society, but it is certain that children are the most sensitive part of society. Many also feel unequal, unequal, but the most pronounced is when inequality is felt among children. Croatia did not go beyond that situation either. We have kids with nothing to eat and no breakfast, and we have kids with helicopters carrying breakfasts. It's a situation that's come to pass in the last 20 years. Parents have both a legal and parental and a moral obligation to care for their child and to care for his development and love is a factor without which a healthy child cannot be built, but love is not the only one that is necessary. Other conditions are needed, including material conditions. What is the economic situation in society is best shown before the fiscal capacity of society, through the structure of the economy and through the distribution of income. The morale of society is reflected through the distribution of income, and this distribution of income also affects the removal of poverty that Croatia undoubtedly has, although many laugh at the word hunger. It sometimes seems common, for he never believed hungryly. And there's a man laughing at scars, but only one who's never been wounded can only laugh at scars like that. In a civilised society, the country with the natural potential that Croatia must not be, and the causes of poverty are multiple. Maltuzianists say it's because of a large number of residents. Unemployment is the biggest cause of poverty, however it is devastating when employees are in poverty. But that's also normal when they work and are forced to work for wages from which they cannot meet the most necessary human needs, basic human needs of food, warmth, clothing, and apartment. But working without pay is also the cause of poverty. But what's certain is that it's not the cause of poverty, and that's the lack of wealth. In Croatia, the lack of wealth is not the cause of poverty. In 17 years it's only net profit paid 375 billion kuna. With gross national income, the number of citizens of the states who pay 375 billion kuna net profits in 17 years should not have any poor or adult, let alone a child. Poverty is also the cause of many other problems of society. And what, in fact, has the most direct effect on the creation and creation of poverty? Grandomania, a grandomania that has gotten into Croatian society and has created a layer of unprotected layer because of its hedonistic desires. It can only change politics and the distribution of income. The real measure of wealth must never be near poverty, but not too far from poverty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u64320	Thank you, too. On behalf of the club independent respected representative Damir Cain. He said both, that's the problem. Yeah, ask him. Okay. This is how I asked Cain for what? [[You can't hear it.]] He said one thing and another. That's why I've been commenting a little while ago that every club when they're looking for a break can name as many topics as they want, but not more than five minutes, so you've been protesting and saying. That's how I understood. ... Okay. [[You can't hear it.]] Okay. So we're going to the tourist community. Well, then before, forgive my colleague Cain to say a few words because the topic is open, I repeat that without the preparation of the material, without the attitude of those who respond, they build systems in the state and in society. So, of course if we were all socially sensitive everyone out, I'd say in my own way. But the problem of social sensitivity in the country is measured and implies building a social system of society and state. And when it comes to humanitarian sensitivity, then it is expressed through associations, societies, or any individual within its environment, its environment. So back to what I prayed for. The topic certainly deserves constant concern both us and the state institution. But in order to be active, creative in building a social sensitivity system in our society, I suggest that in a written way we suggest how to come and build a better system. Well, humanitarianally, it's something else. I believe everyone has the opportunity to act humanitarianly through organizations, through institutions, associations of citizens or in their midst. The second thing I want to say is the problem of poverty is not just the problem of less developed countries. It is indeed a problem and rich countries and I understand it to anyone who shows their sensitivity in this area. But in order for society to be effective, let's prepare the acts and suggest how to fix it. And now we're going on a new topic. Honorable representative Damir Cain. The topic is a tourist community, related to the tourist community. They say acute. Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u64321	First of all, what some participate in when it comes to shifts in the tourist community is embarrassing. And I'm going to say that it's embarrassing for some people at the Ministry of Tourism, so it's certainly not for the benefit of tourism itself. I even dare say that there is an attempt to extract money from the tourist communities. And please also, I don't know the institutions of this society let them simply announce how much money from two thousand let's say the others get to this day individual consultants in the Republic of Croatia. I dare say that for intellectual services, for PR services, consulting services in state authorities in Croatia are being allocated to over 500 million kunas annually. Here's the money for the undernourished. And you know what the main problem is, say, the malnourished ones? The fact that some parents can't afford to pay their children that marendu cca 200 kn per month. It's just that some parents don't have it. As they do not have 2,000 kuna for some trip to the 8th grade when visiting I do not know Croatia and so on. And I agree with Mr. Maric in Croatia, there must be no hunger. But in Croatia there are now about a million and 300 thousand poor. One third in Croatia is poor. This was not Croatia until the 1990s. Let us take this money from consultants and direct it to those who are hungry in Croatia. Let me go back to this other topic now, the tourist community. The increase in overnight stays and arrivals in Croatia in 2013 was 5.1% cca. In Istria, the number of overnight stays increased by 0.3%. And now what do we have? Those with 0.3% are replacing the director who, among other things, achieved a 5.1% growth along with all the employees in the Republic of Croatia. Instead of being the other way around, the victim is simply the one who fought for certain growth. And now what's going on here? I think the minister plays the game of an Istrian two who ended up in the largest Croatian companies and where the waters don't know the consulting, the PR etc. Turning the tourist portfolio precisely for those individuals. In one word, I dare say the government's mistake is that all the money in the Ministry of Tourism has been reserved exclusively, I would say for one party. Should I go in particular now, some consultants who suggest? That today's tourism communities through the process of rationalization, it's not controversial, and territorial rounding is becoming so-called. Destination management of the organization. This includes their appropriate personnel teaming under quotes and additional education for business management of destination development. Who's gonna do that? It'll work normally for those consultants. In other words, among other things, who is not cost-effective would be put out, which means that a third of the current tourist communities should be converted into some info centres where tourist interior Croatia would be thrown I dare say a few decades back and hundreds of people would be fired even though now it is trying to deny it. Some consulting organisations have normally charged this, not to mention the money, but it is petty according to what is expected in the follow-up of the whole story where it would now be assumed that the chief intention of the consultant is to register for a good part "to register" under quotes to a good part of more than 560 million kunas that are spinning in that system by doing various master plans and strategies. Namely, the new structure provides that each regional tourism organisation has its own strategic planning department, which is in the description of the work of building strategies and master plans. And then you know who's just gonna do all that. On the other hand, I would like to remind you that Croatia has its own agencies among other things, so, for example, The Institute of Tourism. And then why wouldn't the Institute of Tourism do all these master plans when they're on the RH budget anyway?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u64322	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u64323	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament allow me first something personal, I would like to congratulate you on the name of the day. Today is St. John's Day. So, Joseph, on behalf of the club, I congratulate you on the name of the day. But it's personal because it's not about the president. And as for this break, so I don't understand why we're not discussing whether the minister called a meeting to prepare the season? As far as I know, he hasn't had any season-prepared meetings this year, I think it's far more important. Secondly, Istria is not the only feather of Croatian tourism. If I'm not mistaken last year, Croatian tourism feather was the whole season of Central Dalmatia, but then. Let's go to the scale of things. So there was a report at the Council of the Tourist Board. According to the information I have, that report was fine. Done in accordance with the plan and the program. Whether things could have been like this or could have been discussed, however, the overall results of tourism in the last year were excellent, at least that's what all those who are related to tourism and tourist season said. However, it's very interesting, I keep saying that each party has its own food chain and every policy has its own food chains, it's very interesting that they didn't want to, that they didn't sign certain documents that came past the procedure and that their obligation allegedly took place past the procedure. So that's what some people who are council members say. And that was probably the reason that everything that happened happened. And one fundamental question is that Croatia, with such poor macroeconomic indicators as we have, is the only economic branch that thanks to the work of some parliamentary bodies and some laws, etc. had good results last year, we are putting into a situation that practically at the beginning of the pre-season because in three weeks the Easter is usually sort of symbolic in Croatia tourist season starts with Easter holidays. And usually it's some kind of indicator of what the season is going to be, let's play what happens after 9 months, but somehow I'm talking about some perception of how it's seen in Croatia. We're replacing the Director of the Tourist Board? Why? Is the reason why she was reluctant, if the reason is her dissatisfaction, then it could have been announced and started to prepare at 11 months last year because the tourism minister was able to see whether the tourist community was working or not at 11 months last year. So very, very strange things. But I say tourism minister instead of calling the season meetings to be better this year than they were last year, that we don't get that hole to say what happened last year, no matter how great the results were, but if I'm not wrong about the North Adriatic, so Kvarner and Istria were pretty empty in the 7th month, and that's the fact that we should simply say here and instead of analyzing why it happened last year, it doesn't happen to us this year, and it automatically means if it doesn't happen to us that the results in tourism this year are going to be much better than they were last year. No, we're going to switch directors of the tourist community. Why? Because she didn't want to sign any papers, but I say the report at least those who spoke, who had the opportunity to see them say they were correct and that there would be no need for the replacement of the director of the tourist community. So here's all I'm talking about are some things that happen in Croatia no matter what political option it refers to. These are things that simply say that certain decisions and certain things are made by people regardless of the political color and this is something that is not good for Croatia, it is simply not good, because the Croatian Tourist Board has a 650 budget or how many million kunas, the Croatian Tourist Board had to pass a new Law on tourist communities, Croatia, the Ministry of Tourism has had to see how to solve the problem of tourist communities in small areas that cannot live on that tourist membership. The second is a story where there are many tourists, therefore, many, many open questions and ultimately the lady who was at the head of the tourist community is pregnant. She would probably do so and so for two or three months she could no longer work and I think she should be with that basis correct to her. Therefore, this clear message to all young Croats is what will happen to you when you are pregnant, I think this is very tragic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u64324	Thank you very much. Time's up. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, I think that the use of a break, a break, for clubs I propose nominating the topic for the Croatian Parliament presidency, an extended composition with club presidents. Why? There is inconclusiveness or inaccuracy in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, so we could continue to open topics this disorganised when someone remembers, which may be practice but it is not parliamentaryism, it is not parliamentaryism. In fact, if parliamentaryism really comes from the Latin word to speak then it must be organised, structured, parliamentary but on the agenda topic. Exceptions can't be that for a club session at the same time you're looking for two sessions, it's not possible, it's not the point. If you're going to have a club session, then anyone will put everything on the agenda, and in five minutes they'll present their views to the club. Thank you very much. So, I think I was correct to put in the session of the Presidency of the extended Parliament, so where all the presidents of the clubs are representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. We now move to the established agenda, agenda point - Final proposal of the Consumer Protection Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 630 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament include the first and second reading, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The final proposal was discussed by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yes, dear Allen Leveric, Deputy Minister of Economy, please welcome your dear deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75210	Thank you very much, Mr. President, esteemed MPs, MPs. The reason for the adoption of a new Consumer Protection Act is primarily the adoption of a Consumer Rights Directive that improves certain provisions of a precisely applicable law which has proved to be subject to different arrangements during the implementation. The expansion of internal trade itself in the common market has affected the need to create a single regulatory framework for all EU members, which we heard about a little less than a month ago in this distinguished House of Discussion on Internet trade, which provides legal certainty for consumers and traders in the first place, which would help create an incentive environment for cross-border trade, thus reducing business costs and creating a greater value in the economy. The result is the adoption of Directive 2011/83. The European Parliament and the Council of 25 October 2011 on consumer rights which has been transposed into this proposal of the Consumer Protection Act. In addition to the fact that distance sales and sales outside the business premises of consumers are regulated, this Directive also contains common provisions concerning all contracts concluded between the trader and the consumer concerning the obligation to inform the consumer about the goods or services he purchases, contract fulfillment, risk transition, consumer notification obligations, additional payments, telephone communications costs and the like. Thus, distance sales and sales outside the business premises will have some common provisions relating to the content of the information which the trader is obliged to give to the consumer before the very conclusion of the contract on paper or any other permanent media. The deadline within which the consumer may change his mind regarding the conclusion of a sales distance contract or the sale outside of business premises will also be 14 days. Money is also defined obligations of traders and consumers in case the consumer changes his/her mind regarding the conclusion of a distance sale or sale contract outside business premises. As regards the trader, he is obliged to return money to the consumer within 14 days of receiving the consumer notice of a unilateral termination of the contract, and as regards the consumer, he is obliged to return the goods, also within 14 days of informing the trader of the unilateral termination of the contract. In some cases, consumers opt for a unilateral termination of the contract after using the goods to a greater extent than is necessary to determine its characteristics and functioning. In this case, the consumer will not lose the right to a unilateral breakup, but will bear the cost of potentially reduced value of the goods themselves. I would also like to stress that the provisions of the laws relating to... consumer rights will enter into force on 13 June this year. Member States are obliged to transpose the Directive to national legislation before its application, i.e. before 13 June and to allow the business community to comply and operate with the new rules. On the one hand, such equal operating rules at EU level will contribute to reducing business costs and creating jobs for the development of the market niche with a trend in the growth of the economic activity of small and medium-sized enterprises, which should be prone to looking for business opportunities in other Member States and, on the other hand, to restore consumer confidence and encourage them to use all the advantages of the EU common market. Over the past period, practice has shown that a large number of consumer rights violations were related to violations of the provisions on action sale, reduction and sale itself. In fact, some merchants have practiced to highlight action sales, downsizing and selling for a longer period of time, which could have led to the impression that it was not actually an action sale, a downsizing, or a sale, but rather a sale at regular prices, which led to consumers being deceived by what this area needed to be more detailed and regulated. Some shops do not rarely see the signs of reduction or sale throughout the year, which is actually not true, but only wants to attract consumers. Therefore, the special chapter of this law lays down provisions on specific sales forms. For all special forms of sales, it is common to highlight two prices and these regular prices and prices are valid for the duration of such a form of sale, which refers to seasonal downsizing, sale, auctioning, sales of products with a mistake, sales of products with a period of use, but ultimately to all other special offers by traders in which consumers can buy products at lower prices than those in the ordinary sale itself. For example, late-night shopping, birthdays of certain malls and the like. As regards the sale, it is proposed that the same determination be made of who sells goods at a lower price in... of these cases, such as the termination of the business of the trader, the termination of business in the previous business premises. Furthermore, the law suggests that seasonal reductions can be carried out up to 3 times a year and that they can start between 27 December and 10 January, 01 and 15 April, 10 and 25 August and may last for a maximum period of 60 days. As for action sales, it is prescribed that it cannot last longer than 30 days. The intention of these provisions is to better identify this area for the benefit of both consumers and traders themselves. This arrangement aims to prevent consumers from being deceived, but also unfairly treated by individual traders. Furthermore, consumers will know precisely what period traders are carrying out seasonal reduction and how long it is taking, and as regards other unnamed special forms of sales, they are left with the possibility of using any other name during the period best suited to them, for the purpose of promoting their goods and services, provided that they highlight the regular price of goods or services and the price during the duration of the promotional activities themselves. These provisions will not prevent traders from designing their promotional campaigns and incentivising the sale of certain products, as well as from affecting contractual promotional activities, the law provides for a period of adjustment of the business sector, i.e. these provisions will enter into force on 01 January 2015. One of the newspapers in this bill is the regulation that the trader providing the public service is obliged to inform the consumer on the amount of outstanding claims for the previous periods, all so that the consumer has information on the state of the debt, following which he could carry out his payment obligation and to reduce the number of initiations of the executive procedures. The paper also presents provisions in cases where public services are involved, and it is not permitted to initiate a procedure for the forced collection of outstanding cash claims pending the end of court or outside of the court proceedings of a trader providing public service by consumers in the same way. This would prevent additional costs for consumers. It has also shown the need to strengthen the role of local self-government units in implementing consumer protection policy, in particular with regard to consumer advice. During the implementation of consumer counselling projects by the Consumer Protection Association organised in consultations in Zagreb, Osijek, Split and Pula, except for questions relating to electronic communications services, financial services etc., consumers are very often asking questions relating to municipal services, such as the transport of municipal waste, drinking water supply and a large part of these issues in practice cannot be consulted at national level, given that issues are exclusively related to the area in which the consumer resides permanently or occasionally. It is therefore proposed to organise consumer advice at local level and to address consumer issues more quickly and effectively. Finally, this proposal of the Consumer Protection Act will achieve a high level of consumer protection, you could see this in this introductory section covered by this law, better functioning of the internal market itself, creating higher value in the economy and higher level of legal certainty for consumers and traders in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75211	Thank you, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to present a report? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, we're going to the club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It's the SDP club and the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75212	Dear colleagues and colleagues. In March 15, 1962, US President Jonh Fitzgerald Kennedy presented 4 basic consumer rights that eventually became the cornerstone of consumer protection in his speech at the American Congress. First through UN guidelines and then through legislative acts in other countries. Since 1983, this March 15th has been marked as the World Consumer Rights Day. That is why I am particularly pleased that, in some ways, this debate today and the adoption of this law that will soon follow, we can also view it as a way to mark this Consumer Rights Day, because by this law, by adopting this law, we will raise the protection of consumer rights in the Republic of Croatia to a higher level. I started this debate by reminding myself of this date for the reason why, unfortunately for all of us, the Republic of Croatia is not very much on consumer protection scales within the EU, both in the implementation of consumer protection and consumer perception of their rights and the opportunities they have to protect these rights. However, it should be acknowledged and said that some progress has been made in the area of consumer protection in the last few years in the Republic of Croatia. The fact is that it will still be necessary to do much more, of course not only to pass this law but also to successfully implement it, in order for the Republic of Croatia to raise itself on all the scales that take care of consumer protection and, in this context, it is necessary to welcome this law. This law, which brings a whole series of improvements to our consumer protection system, to the extent that consumer protection organisations have estimated that this law will bring a higher level of protection and that this law will likely move the Republic of Croatia from 26 to at least 15 or 10 instead of the Consumer Satisfaction Index at EU level. Since we, too, agree with such an assessment at the Club of Representatives of the SDP, of course, that we will support this law. Now what does that law bring us? The Deputy Minister spoke of it but should be reminded. This law regulates the problem of reduction, sale, action sales and other sales. It is clearly arranged when and under what conditions a special form of sale can be determined, but above all and what is the quantity of products to be sold under special conditions so that something can be called action or reduction. All so as not to advertise the decline, and then to find no items on that alleged downsizing in the store or an increase. For each downturn or any specific sale, traders will also be obliged to highlight at least two prices and this regular price and price valid during the period of the specific sales form, so that the buyer can see that it is indeed a reduction and what savings it is making at such a downturn. Furthermore, this law makes it very clear and specific that public services are in terms of consumer protection rules, which is very important in the context of the provisions of the laws concerning the specific protection of consumers who are users of public services. It should be pointed out here that this is about a list or an intervention in a law that was made during a public debate precisely at the request of the Consumer Protection Association. In accordance with these provisions, the trader providing the public service in the account must highlight the amount of outstanding cash claims for the previous periods so that the consumer knows at any time whether and how much he owes for a particular service. Furthermore, public services shall prohibit the initiation of a procedure for forced collection of disputed outstanding claims until the completion of the disputed process of such claims, so that it does not happen that the service provider, while the consumer's dispute is charged with a claim which will tomorrow be found to be non-existent. The law also provides for the obligation of the public service provider to ensure that even when an individual account is disputed in a procedure, and the consumer properly settles all the following undeniable accounts to the consumer must continue to provide a service until the end of the procedure. Of course, the exception is the situation when the consumer has broken his contract with the trader provided by the public service. Furthermore, the law also clearly defines what is unfair and what is a safeguarding business practice and prohibits it. In practice, this means that it finally rang the calls to so-called. Free dinners that then turn out more expensive than in the most expensive restaurants, that have ringed the bell with alleged winnings at the prize games that it turns out you can only get if you buy an item whose price far exceeds the value of what you allegedly won and so on. The law clearly describes examples of unfair and misleading practice but at the same time leaves such a list open to law enforcement bodies to sanction those situations of unfair and misleading practice that fraud will yet come up with. The law harmonises the deadline for the termination of contracts concluded outside the premises and concluded at a distance so that the consumer has the right without giving reason to unilaterally terminate the contract concluded outside the business premises or concluded at a distance within 14 days. The law clearly defines what must be stated on the packaging or on the product itself, as defined in the way in which the price must be highlighted, etc. The law therefore significantly raised the level of consumer protection in the Republic of Croatia. But as I mentioned at the beginning in the Republic of Croatia, there has been a certain level of consumer protection so far, but the problem was that citizens were often not familiar with their rights, so they couldn't even use them. This law provides for consumer notification measures on their rights and provides for the obligation of the unit of local self-government to organise, among other things, consumer advice in order to address consumer problems. Consumer protection holders are foreseen, the work of the National Consumer Protection Council has been arranged, the Consumer Protection Association has been established in the protection procedures of their rights and the like. The law also provides for instruments as well as the consumer rights process either through individual, either through collective procedures to protect consumers' interests, who were slightly as we could see through certain court proceedings that were being conducted which had slightly begun to find their way into the Croatian legal system. To conclude, this law, with the proposed amendments to the Committee on Law, which we hope the applicant will accept, will significantly raise the level of consumer protection in the Republic of Croatia, which is why the SDP Representatives' Club supports it, and we hope that through its implementation, we will ensure that the Republic of Croatia, from which the European Commissioner in charge of this area comes, becomes a country of example of consumer protection in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75213	Thank you, Your Honor. We have two replicas. Honorable representative Branko Hrg, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague, you've made it very nice here to take care of consumer protection, and no one in this assembly is going to mind. And you've been talking about public services and consumer protection in public services, so I'm going to look back here just for public services, for example, from utility companies that go towards consumers where there's a lot of problems on the ground already now at public service charges, especially at local levels, because you know today citizens pay for electricity, pay for the phone, pay for everything that goes from some higher levels, but when it comes to paying for water, when it comes to waste disposal, when it comes to paying for the utility, it goes a little harder. Whether or not this law, this question is addressed to you, whether this law will now further complicate all this system and whether it will not be public societies, now I am specifically telling them, need in principle still to employ a clerk because they are already burdened with bureaucracy to meet all these needs. So has this problem been agreed primarily with public service providers in that section in the payment of claims and consumer protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75215	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75216	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm sure it would be the simplest thing for municipal societies if there were no laws. You're being calculated that someone owes you, you make an account, someone doesn't pay it, we go to work, maybe even get off the I.D., and we're calm. Then municipal societies will function most easily and charge what they want. Sometimes it seems to me when I read the accounts that come to me and watch them calculate the price of a service, for example water, that we don't talk about electricity, that you need a postgraduate study or at least the title of a doctor of science. With this law, we regulate the situation without default, the non-payers will have to pay their debts, and the bill will depend on whether they have the money. This law regulates those situations that occur when you are simply consumers sure that you have not used a service. Whether it will later happen and prove that you were wrong or right is not important, but the fact that this law provides for such consumer protection is that at such times when it thinks that it is damaged, the supplier of municipal services cannot deny it. I don't see any problem in that, I don't see a problem for utility companies. So their obligation is to deliver a service to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia under the same conditions. If you disagree with the amendment, we change the law, it will be great but then we will no longer talk about climbing to 10th or 15th place to protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia as consumers, but we will sink to 28th in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75217	Thank you, too. The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75218	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Grbin, I agree that this is an important law, especially if it will really regulate everything that bothers all of us consumers in Croatia, but I must say one minority that can still be called consumers unless it is about paying the bills. But what worries me is this marking in Article 6 and the truth that it's an important problem. The biggest problem is that it states here that the data referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article must be marked clearly, visiblely and readably. But I don't know who's supposed to be doing their job or inspecting or anybody else. Usually on products are completely unready declarations, letter fonts, and for years we've been talking about it, they're probably like that that we need a good microscope or double-larged so we can read the ones we still see, and people who don't see or see anything worse than us, not at all. Therefore, and here I do not see, the penalties are some up to 100,000 kuna, but I would warn that it might be possible to enter in this article a font to which the declaration should be printed in clear, readable, visible and of course in Croatian or in another language, because indeed every product, every one of them is so illiterately written with fine letters that it is not visible. And the other thing is, here when it comes to actions I would just say about food products that traders really in food products should separate products that are on action, not keep them in the same gondola where they are and where to be...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75219	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75220	Thank you. Well, this is about one of the remarks highlighted in the public debate by the Consumers' Association in Zagreb, and that would be the principle. I also have glasses and I often have problems reading what is written on these declarations, but we have one regulation, it is the Consumer Information Act that regulates in a particular segment of size and in that case we have a precedent on why we could do so. Because this is regulated by the European Union Regulation concerning that area. However, in other areas, if we were to go after the regulation of the size of the font, we would then be in a situation that would be limited to freedom of movement of goods on the internal market, and that is until the European Union regulates it by a regulation we cannot do so. But certainly this proposal of yours is good, and I think we also have the opportunity to initiate, through our members in the European Parliament, the adoption of such an act at European Union level which would then regulate it and which would then allow us to install it into the Croatian legal order. However, to such a decision, given the competences of the European Union, we are unable to do so on our own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75221	Thank you, too. Club of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Đuro Popijac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75222	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the beginning of Mr. Peja Grbin's colleague mentioned the general consent of the Consumers' Association around this bill, so I'll immediately say that I'm pretty confused here. Because these days we're getting various letters from the Consumer Association and one of them says that a public debate conducted under democratic standards of public debate from the time of 2001, the third, the seventh, the ninth. At that time, so from 2000 to 2009 Consumer organisations were active law-writing actors and lobbying of the consumer's amendments and suggestions. You probably have that in writing, too. However, in 2013 and 2014, the Consumer Associations, even though they are the holders of consumer protection, were expelled from creating a draft bill which is a violation of the principle of participation democracy and principle, the right to present in bodies that make decisions on common interests. That is what they wrote, written by the Croatian Union of Consumer Protection Associations. Well, I don't know what consent and support consumer associations you're talking about. Next, a colleague rightly mentioned the day of March 15th when the World Consumer Rights Day was marked. And I will also mention that on the occasion of the Consumer Protection Commissioner, Mr Mimica addressed the Consumer Associations with a letter from Greece and said that he would launch a campaign on consumer rights which is another important step towards raising consumer awareness in their rights as well as the overall strengthening of consumer position on the market. Because, according to Commissioner Mimica, consumers can and must be drivers of economic recovery and growth. But that is only possible if they feel secure and confident, there is Mimica. And I would add here given the state of Croatia if consumers in Croatia even existed more. It is true that consumers should be and are drivers of economic recovery. But they must, in addition to their sense of security, have any consumer potential, or much more sense of security today, our consumers have a naked existence and life than they are aware or want to be aware of the safety and confidence of consumer rights. Today, unfortunately, we are aware of what it looks like with us, two years of consumption is constantly falling, of course, and demand, and therefore economic activity. Today we are faced with much more difficult problems of growing unemployment, 380 thousand people on the labour market unfortunately cannot be consumers who encourage growth. Pressure to increase costs and energys and taxes and communals reduces the available potential of consumption, and the deterioration of business conditions is constantly jeopardising and thus severely weakened the private sector and reducing the prospects that our consumer, apart from the naked struggle for existence, will think about the rights spoken of in this law. So, as far as the law is concerned, the first question is why this law must be passed by emergency procedure. Mr. Deputy said it would begin to apply in June, so because it is the beginning and the directive. But given the comments already mentioned here, a dozen pages of the observations of the Consumer Protection Association have come to our tables and I believe that there should be an opportunity for both these associations and these remarks and these amendments to be considered eventually in some process of second reading, so here is how to open up more space for democracy to adopt this law. In market economy conditions, it must be very important to have the mechanisms for establishing a market balance between the parties mainly when it comes to consumers as a weaker party. When we assess which power and tool gives consumers this law, let us stop right at the beginning of Article 4. Therefore, if the provisions of this law are contrary to the provisions of the laws governing certain administrative areas, which are in line with the EU acquis on consumer-trade relations, the provisions of those specific laws shall apply primarily. And item two. Where the specific laws referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article or this law are not otherwise laid down in the mandatory legal relations between consumers and traders, the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations shall apply. There he is. Many things, many of the definitions that are dealt with here in detail by this law go right into many areas that are defined by other laws. There is also the Law on Mandatory Relations, as this law itself already states. There are also energy laws, the Croatian National Bank Act, financial operations, the Bank Act and many others. And they're all in important matters under this law. So, no matter how high-quality and deep consumer rights and defines this law in many segments it seems to be principled while real rights and real consequences in relation to the violation of any rights are actually defined and tried by some other laws. We see, for example, in a chapter specifically public service, what I am predicting and what it looks like in practice. Therefore, it is stated in this chapter that when establishing a public service account, a trader must apply the calculation and prices regulated by specific regulations and continues to write a service for the reading of measuring devices is not allowed to charge except in cases set out in a specific regulation. First, here's an example of the gas consumption charge. So it's clear to all of us that our gas meters are still reading the cubes, and that our accounts show consumption and energy consumption. And plus that reading of the gas meter. This law forbids it unless it is. And unless it's because in that other law it's allowed. Well, then we have a quality consumer protection law where actually other laws explicitly and these rights are disproved. We know what the situation is and about the account is precisely in these public services, energy, especially heat energy. We are aware and we know what chaos is and what we have seen and read about consumer rights, consumers in thermal energy. Special doubts about the infraction of this law are not because it is bad, but because of these other reasons it brings a chapter of unfair business practice. He writes the term here and clearly and beautifully defined it. Therefore, business practice is unfair if it is contrary to the requirements of professional negligence and, in terms of a particular product, it is likely that it will have an important impact on the economic behaviour of the average consumer to whom such practice is intended or to which it reaches, i.e. the average member of a particular consumer group to which this practice is directed. Unfortunately, we have a terrible example here, which is precisely an example of the user of banking industry services. So when we talk about consumption, it's not just action sales, it's the least of the problems. It's not just seasonal sales or whether it's going to be a big one, or whether it's going to be a big one or something. So much has been said in the marketing of this law on seasonal sales, actions and what they mean and how they protect consumers. These are key things, the concept of unfair business practice. Now that this law on all processes is applied, there wouldn't be any problem with challenging the demand for protection of rights, let's say, the Frank Association, and we can see, of course, how this is happening. The first-degree verdict, though, is that, but the question is how will it end. Under this law, there is no doubt about what certain segments of the financial industry have been doing. However, all those other laws that are older than this law, so to speak, allow for this kind of behavior completely different under the quotes of "traders" or all those who provide certain services, whether public services and any services on the market. So, it's not a dispute, we'll all agree here and probably resist that, and this law is ultimately, of course, a certain progress in relation to what was before. Could it have been better given the comment of the Consumer Protection Act, I also had a variety of experiences with various associations. They are not always the cleanest situations, but the real problems and the real facts of consumer protection are actually derived from everything else that does not appear here and is written in many other laws. So here's if there's room for this to be sent to another reading, I don't think there's any reason for us not to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75223	Thank you, too. Now we're going to the replicas. Honorable representative of Peja Grbin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75224	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here I am actually going to look back at something that the esteemed fellow Drinker said at the very beginning of this presentation, and in fact he was being denied at the end when he said that he himself had situations with associations that weren't clean and that he practically didn't know what and who was doing it. For example, this law was supported by the Consumer Society, for example, on 27.02., you have an extensive article in Free Dalmatia. Of course a little bit and so speaking from the angle of the region, so it supports... consumer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, the Union of Consumers praised the fact that several of theirs were adopted when the law was passed, as they say key amendments. If you look at the report from a public debate that is very extensive, you will see that, for example, here is a regular proposal adopted by the Association for the Protection of Consumers of Croatia, which refers to the labelling of the product itself. So, regardless of the procedure, to what might seem urgent, that's not so. This law has passed an extensive public debate and in the part where we are allowed to change the ministry it has certainly gone according to what both consumer associations and the Chamber of Commerce and employers' associations have proposed. However, this law contains a whole part of what we cannot change because it is predetermined. You were talking about unfair practice. These provisions relating to unfair practice are explicitly laid down by EU directives. And there's nothing we can do about it. And we need to implement them exactly as they are in those directives. But you're right, it would be good if those directives were passed years earlier, if we could implement them, and then maybe this example you've set wouldn't have happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75225	The reply to the replica, the Đuro Popiè's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75226	Thank you very much. I know, therefore, that here we have also had in this material a whole list of remarks and what was possible to accept and which was not possible to accept and of course we are aware that because of the directives and many demands of consumer associations and it was not possible... but this does not mean that it should still be done in one reading because and then there would be enough and more space left to be left for and according to these associations once again to argue that things or can or can not be accepted at the end but for certain reasons. I'm not saying that this, this notion of unfair business practice is ill-written, it's well-written, of course, I just warned about how everyone or some other laws kill derogates or disables in legal practice and the real application of the law as defined by this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75227	The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75228	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Popioč, at the beginning of your debate, you may have said well, perhaps a little stronger and longer and there should have been a debate. What I would like to stress here in the replica is that consumer associations have really done a lot in the education of consumers themselves and in some ways helping but it would be unfair not to mention one show on HTV, that is the Consumer Code. And indeed, we consumers who have not been educated have gained a lot of new knowledge, and we know how we can fight for our rights. And that, I didn't really look at the fonts of the Consumers' Association proposal but I would still stand for it. It would continue to advocate the same way that supplies should be separated regardless of the Food and Food Marking Act, in the food supply means those whose duration is still 7 days and who are on action from those whose duration is still longer than anticipated because the consumer is being led astray. They stand together and the saddest thing is when there's just no action written for a product and his deadline is, say, two more days and he's a month away. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75229	Honorable representative Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75230	Excuse me, thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Popiac, in your opening presentation, you spoke of a difficult economic situation because of consumer, public debt, balance of payments, unemployment, these few gloomy topics, and you mentioned among other things the World Consumer Day, which is marked on 15.3. I will not talk about it, nor dreary, but today is marked one day and the holiday of St. Josepha 327 years ago, a unanimous decision was made in this Croatian Parliament that St. Josip Protector of the Croatian Parliament and Croatian People. I use this occasion and I wish to congratulate our esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Lek his name, that God gives him wisdom, justice and that he continues to lead these sessions, as well as all Josephs and Josephs in the Republic, perhaps some things should not make circus or exaggerate but in... The Croatian Parliament has a beautiful relief of St. Josepha, it seems to me to be the work of the sculpture of Shima Vulas. Perhaps one candle and one flower could be placed, which would not be bad because I think that we are the generation that has its own state and takes care of its people is the happiness and grace of this generation and of all of us here in the Croatian Parliament. Here's just as much as a note, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75231	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica, no. Let's move on, esteemed, I have nothing to add, man used the replica on his own, we respect that, there's a possibility, everything's fine. Honourable representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75232	Here is a colleague, noting the special importance of this and the proposal of the Consumer Protection Act, you mentioned that today the consumer is almost gone. You said literally they don't exist at all. We are all, but one part is true what you wanted to say, perhaps not directly and you didn't say, we are all consumers, of course the purchasing power has been reduced but few of our citizens are producers, in this is our big problem and the big deindustrization that, with great pomp as something good for Croatia has happened, we now have consequences. I believe that a strong policy, a deindustrialisation that the government will implement, that it will also come upon your support because of the services and services that no country can live on, and neither can Croatia, but when you say, I agree with you, when you say about regulations and their implementation, we must imagine how imaginative those who want to deceive our consumers and those producers from the heart of the EU are. Let's say some goods of broad consumption, famous manufacturers, laundry detergents where they were found to have exactly those intended for ours and some other markets in the south have less active substances. The manufacturer had to admit it, but imagine a shameless, shameless excuse, that this is simply what this market is looking for. I think we need to be there right now without thinking about protecting our consumers from these frauds that are subtle and very, very imaginative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75233	The reply to the replica, the Đuro Popiè's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75234	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, there are certain things that you know better than I do, and I agree with you that often our market, regardless of the same and even the declaration or declaration of the product that comes from what can be found in the so-called Western part of the EU, is not the same and not only through this law, but probably through some other and procedures and institutions should definitely prevent such things, and only, here is the accession of Croatia's EU now through this law and through the single market such mechanisms that simply what comes on our shelves, whether domestic or foreign chains, is equal to the same quality as we can find in Austria, Germany and anywhere else. And of course I agree with you that the issue of economic growth, economic recovery, the strengthening of industrial production in the finality and the foundation of the very strengthening of the consumer potential of Croatian citizens and that this subject of consumer awareness will be much more interesting to our citizens than here today when everyone is fighting for a naked existence together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75235	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75236	Thank you very much. Dear Popiac, you talked about the weakened purchasing power of Croatian citizens, given the 380s and more thousands of unemployed, but in view of 90 thousand who work and do not receive pay, given the 300 thousand people who receive pay or pension, and their accounts have been blocked, so this purchasing weakened power applies almost to the whole of Croatia. The whole of Croatia is, in fact, this consumer purchasing power is minimalized. Furthermore, you also talked about the banking industry which also falls under the jurisdiction of this law, and then also about the notion of unfair business practice, and you mentioned the Franak Association and its action and the fight against this unfair business practice, so here, I wanted to point out by example that some of the banks in their proclaiming, advertising themselves offers lower interest, and then when you come to raise that loan, any kind of billing you big, so the credit bill is extremely high, 3% compared to the principal. So if you want to close that loan early, there's no paying back, and plus, pay and closing credits that are also about 1.5 to 2%. This is terrible, when you add it up and when you get how much money the bank takes, I believe that in this state of ours, that banks are all foreign property, we have like..., Ingrid Antičević where really, in relation to banks in the home countries, they offer catastrophic services to Croatian citizens, in fact, looting Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75237	The reply to the replica, the Đuro Popiè's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75238	... Mr. President. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Dear fellow, we are aware, therefore, that from quarter to quarter when we observe in general... economic indicators, consumption in Croatia is continuously falling, and that is, of course, the direct consequence of the growing financial pressure of those fixed and mandatory costs that first always come in line, so to pay for the electricity, pay for the heating and I don't know, something that remains possibly of course for us and further towards other good, service and all in the context of therefore, and some pressing within the frameworks where citizens can function and live. But this again as one chain goes on or round towards fall and demand, and further production and, in fact, to repeat itself, a strong economic recovery solves these fundamental existential issues as well as everything else. This can be a good mechanism here, as stated in the terms of unfair business practice, in Article 32, continues to be a regulatory framework for all such behaviours that we have, not only in the financial industry, but also in other aggressive industries as regards consumers themselves, so telecom and television, and all that is evident in everyday life, to provide tools, to provide mechanisms, to protect consumers from such behaviours, and to end up with those who end up acting and penalizing them, but I say, in those other laws and on banks and funds and everything, and on mandatory relations, it should be somewhat harmonised and should be... that simply these rights can be consumed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75239	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Drinker, you said the law is progress. It may be in some parts, but I'm not sure that's exactly how it is, and I especially stress what I said and just before replicating my colleague's coat of arms, that I'm not sure that he's progressing in the part of providing public services. So you also said that there should be a balance between service providers of course and consumers, and that's absolutely correct, and we have today's laws, regulations, instructions, special regulations, I don't know what not to do, what to do, especially about providing public services, I'm talking about communal societies, I'm talking about local self-government units. So there'll be still problems. You know how this ends, where it ends? It ends with citizens not being able to pay the service because they are out of a job, after which they are looking for a way of not paying it, the service must be provided to them and they are going to the end of the court. It all ends up in law offices, there are problems being solved, in the end it pays a lot more, in the woods these regulations are impossible to find the right solution. And I'd believe that the law would be progress if we had one simulation, to see what it would look like in practice. What happens when a consumer comes in who just needs to pay for the service that's done, what's going to happen with those side effects on the water service, by the phone, with the electricity that's going to happen with those accessories? Is this a service done, will consumers, based on such fixed supplements, be able to ask not to pay for it? Where are the communal societies? What kind of problems are they gonna be in?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75241	Honorable representative Jozo Radoš, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75242	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A fellow Popijac said the role of the Consumers' Association in the adoption of earlier laws in the creation of the law in 2001, the third and a few more years mentioned was greater than it was in the case of writing this law, it is difficult to accept that view. Since we have a report here, like the law, each must have on consultations with the interested public in which not only consumer associations participated but also other interested citizens or entities because it is not an isolated area. It also concerns the business of the service provider, not only the consumer. In this two-week public debate, 204 remarks were pointed out, and if you look at it, you will see that a good part of these remarks is either accepted or partially accepted. Of course, the promoter had to balance our optimal solution, and for each of these remarks that was not accepted or partially accepted, a very precise reason why this did not happen was stated. Therefore, it can be difficult to take the view that public debate or consultation with the interested public with regard to this law has not been properly implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75243	The reply to the replica, the Đuro Popiè's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75244	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You're probably a respected colleague now, and you're polymizing with the author of this letter that I quoted. So I didn't say it didn't happen, but I'm saying that maybe there was space and I repeat that two readings eventually avoid these views. So, it says here the Croatian Union of Consumers Associations and man has cited everything I have read for the speaker and everything that is listed here as one set of objections accepted or not accepted he is precisely referring to what was not accepted and arguing why he was not accepted and could have been accepted. Now, of course, that debate could still have lasted until the second reading was time, but obviously you still think that the debate was enough and that these observations and those views of these associations should not be taken into account anymore, that that was enough. Just one more second if you'll excuse me, I haven't been able to report to Mr. Horg's replica. So it's true public services are generally why I used to say that in my presentation, defined by all specific laws. So energy laws, there's a law on the electricity market, the gas market, the heat market, water and everything you've mentioned. And I said it's worth everything here unless it's worth it. So it doesn't apply in all those cases when it's otherwise defined by special laws... That it is essential to isolate and balance one balance and balance between this law and all those laws that define those areas so that the rights that are here and listed can and quality be consummated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75245	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75246	Thank you very much. A fellow drinker of public service is just perhaps the question most interested in Croatian citizens because of the large amounts you have to pay because someone will turn off either heating or gas or electricity, so we have a very interesting situation. First, the price of gas went 37% up, and then someone remembered that they would no longer pay the citizens of the Republic of Croatia by cubicity rather than by some other heat calculation of how much heat it is, etc. And now there's one very interesting thing going on. Last January, snow freezes Croatia, temperatures minus 10, minus 15, this year, practically without temperatures below 0 degrees, but accounts that come to Croatian citizens for gas and electricity have frozen those citizens without temperatures below 0, so they were not outside but frozen by the accounts. And now the basic question is, who needs to be at least a engineering technician or a engineering engineer so he can recalculate how much gas he spent and how suddenly it's bigger bills... or another story with these different televisions like this or like that. First they sell you one package and then they add 2, 3 new channels in which they transfer those programs that were part of some other channels and then they sell it to you for 60 kuna or they remove some of the channels that you paid for in this part, but it's very interesting that you don't have a reduced subscription. So these are things that are primarily of interest to the citizens of Croatia. And not to say that no one even mentioned a facebook store here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75247	The reply to the replica is Honorable Representative Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75248	Thank you. Dear fellow, you mentioned a classic example in public services that is gas and what is still a situation and practice to measure cubicity, and the energy is tariffd. So, the average consumer, either of us is absolutely not able to even be a quality engineer or recalculate it because we don't know and we can't measure it, we'd have to have special devices so we could measure that caloric energy value of the gas that delivers our distributor to us. We can only look at the end of whether that flame on our stove is more blue or red so let's see how much more air or some other gas is in there that isn't that energy value. So it's one scam and it's obvious and it keeps happening and it doesn't seem to do anything, and this is the most classic example when citizens actually felt it very alive in the everyday life of this winter when they were getting those enormous bills, and they know they didn't end up heating up that much. And that's all about the fact that, in addition to the regulation itself, there is, of course, a need to strengthen the mechanisms of implementation itself, and now that you tell who to report to, I don't know who to call when the state inspectorate is gone. Is what should have been moved somewhere else, whether the economy ministry is functioning that part of the inspection or not, and where the final address is now that all this is written here in this law that these rights and in practice can be consummated and that they ultimately serve something if here we already have the opportunity to discuss everything that this law so wonderfully and foresees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75249	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate. Club of HNS representatives in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Jozo Radoš on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75250	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Consumer protection is one area through which many relationships are reflected and, of course, it is not an isolated area. If it were isolated then it would be easier, of course, to protect consumers maximum, regardless of everything else. However, that is not the case, consumer protection has to do with both business and the economy and with the possibility of legal systems, fundamental human rights, etc., so it is a very complex area and it was certainly not easy for the promoter because it is he that, since stakeholders such as the relationship between trade unions and employers cannot agree, then the Government must always achieve some balanced final result. Thus, in this case, it was, therefore, not only here are the observations of consumer organisations but employers' associations, or those who provide services and citizens who are, for example, some third party in the process, and the Government has been invited to coordinate those views and to achieve some optimal balance between consumer protection, as well as the failure to burden the business of the service provider and, of course, the possibility of an administrative and legal system of the country which should also not be too burdensome with that process. We are often and now this is becoming current, the issue is constantly current and now, in particular, which is the role of the European Union and how to bring the European Union closer to citizens and this is not just our topic, it is the subject of all important documents of the European Union, government documents, party programmes. Here is an area where it may be quite clear what the role of the European Union is and what it brings us in this area, because we are essentially taking the new European Union directives into our legislative system, which is the area where the European Union was up to 10 years ago far above the Republic of Croatia because we lived in situations where consumer protection, as well as protection of human rights, was not a particular issue. In the meantime, several key processes happened, first the openness of Croatia, Croatia opened up to the world and then the possibility of the influence of business entities and we can see it by trade chains, but of course not only by them, outside the Republic of Croatia on our activities, has become bigger on our lives. The other thing is that, in democracy, of course, marketing, advertising has become much more important than it was before and of course, and new communication techniques have, in particular, emerged, first and foremost, that enables it to get its application, to be applied in the area of trade, i.e. communication between service providers and consumers. It all happened before the '90s. But it was under some kind of muffled, controlled conditions and now these three segments are essentially escalating that activity, and then, of course, new problems arise. It is our good circumstance, therefore, of membership in the European Union, that we take over all that gain, but of course the practice that the European Union has developed over the last 30 years, which we have actually seen almost unknown by the last 10 years. This confirms an interesting information which is listed here, which is that the first Croatian Consumer Protection Act was adopted in 2003, and the European Union had already adopted the Consumer Protection Directive almost 20 years ago as regards the conclusion of a contract outside the business premises of the contract. So for the full 20 years, the European Union has been regulating this problem that has only appeared to us for the last 10 years, and we have only regulated it by our 2003 law, and it is a great advantage that we are therefore not only in the formal sense but also in the practice and behaviour of the European Union in an accelerated way to protect consumers. And this actually changes the law or new law, it abolishes two directives, one directive from '85. That I was talking about in the second '97 directive. years of long-distance contracts. These two directives are repealed, but this law introduces, therefore, the Directives are introduced into the system and the regulations are directly applicable in the legal system of a country. So the 2011 directive repeals these two directives, amends the other two directives that I am not going to talk about right now. Therefore, the 2011 directive is introduced into the Croatian legal system. And it's interesting to say that only 8% of the retail trade today with all these technological possibilities is cross-border, so it happens across the border of a country. And of course, the perspective of communication, because of openness, because of the freedom of the market is much greater and the cross-border trade to a little bit, which of course means that this activity is becoming more and more significant, and that, of course, the need for its regulation will be greater. And this law in any case opens up opportunities for the scope of consumer rights regulation to be better at something that has been so far. But it's a very complex area not only because it puts more players in the focus of this game, but because some issues are very difficult and very complicated to regulate at all. I'll try to talk about it later. But this potential of cross-border trade on a small scale that will enable online and various other types of trade is and certainly very important, it will affect our behaviour, affect our purchase, our trade and, of course, will continue to regulate it. And therefore, of course, it can be expected that the European Union is, in fact, changing, in some regular spaces, new directives, i.e. regulation on consumer rights, very nearly. There have already been speeches by the proposings, by colleagues who have spoken about the law which is the most important things that are regulated here, which is therefore further regulation, reduction, sale, stock action, sale of goods with error, goods that expires with a precise set of deadlines to, of course, prevent what has happened so far, which is that the action is permanent. Look at our stores, they constantly have the action of one and the same products and actually when the same goods are sold on stock for several months it's basically an attempt to deceive consumers because this goods are obviously not on action it's a regular price of goods, and this is that action and advertising of that action is essentially a misleading of consumers. And also a couple of details from all of that that actually paints how complex this is and what's going on with us. Usually when you have actions, they immediately refer to sometimes a very small amount of products, so you enter the store, there is a discount, i.e. a decrease of 70%. You enter only one or no products are reduced to 70%, and all other products are reduced significantly less. This bill makes it impossible to do so. The law provides that at least one-fifth of all products that are on a discount must be according to this, the highest reduction highlighted so that consumers are not being deceived in this sense. And equally, when a product is put into action at all, it is said that the quantity of the product must be reasonable. Of course, it's hard to define what a reasonable amount of product is, but it happens with us that some extreme reduction and convenience occur in buying a product, and there you have some kind of minimal amount. By the time the citizens got there at all, those dozens of samples had already been sold, which is, of course, one of the forms of consumer deception. Therefore, this law stipulates that this reduction, i.e. the action, must refer to a reasonable amount of product. Of course it's not easy to define what a reasonable amount of product is. So we are actually facing this procedure, that we regulate that question in a more precise way, but still not imposing too much obligations on the service provider, which would lead him to a difficult situation, lower his competitiveness. So we must always try to achieve that balance. In particular, there are two specific chapters here on ensuring business practice and aggressive business practice, so I will list only some of these cases. One is, of course, the case where one product is trying to replace itself with another by suggesting that it is a product of imitation of the name or another, which is certainly an attempt to trick voters, not voters, but consumers. And there is one area that is completely, and voters are consumers, consumers are voters. So there's a very interesting area that this law is just touching. It is said here that the prohibition in terms of, therefore, misleading business practices, the ban on advertising of products that will cure or eliminate the lack, the physical deficiency. So, some difficulty of medical nature. It is a completely unregulated area in Croatia, and it has a terrible lot. This is exactly where those consumers who are in some of the difficulties in life are used. In principle, the law prohibits the use of therefore difficult circumstances in which the consumer finds himself in order to somehow get him to buy the product. But, for example, in these vast, vast offers of products that will cure, save, remove the lack, some kind of small formation, etc. It's a completely unregulated area. Our official medicine, the official health authority in the Republic of Croatia, is not talking about it at all, probably because it does not want to take responsibility. But it would be logical that when it is not yet in the area of crime, therefore against the law that there is some possibility of administrative action, the administrative reaction of the authorities that would protect consumers from such practices. Look, open up a newspaper of that you have as much as you want. When it comes to aggressive business practices here, examples of aggressive business practice are cited, but how rich is the area showing that one of the not-so-important aspects of aggressive business practices here is not mentioned, and it concerns all of us, all of us, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and this is, for example, that in television and radio programmes, the advertising is significantly louder than the basic emissions. It happens a lot. So, you have a basic show, music or whatever, a commercial that is broadcast in breaks and basic shows is much louder than the basic show, and of course the citizen sets the sound of television or radio to himself according to the basic show, not according to the ad, and then it irritates him. This is certainly aggressive business behaviour, but as far as this is a developed area and which is constantly, of course, susceptible to the development and development of new opportunities for business placement, let's say that this law is not at all such an unimportant segment of entry into the private life of a disturbance of the peace of the citizens. Well, here's to future amendments to the law, I suggest we consider that too. But this is just an illustration of how rich this area is. It is good that this law also states that it is not allowed for someone to provide services in Croatia other than those provided elsewhere. Whether it's services or products. So we have, so it's a mass phenomenon that concerns new countries, including part of Croatia, I think more of a different country. So then you have these cynical excuses or explanations that, for example, citizens of Eastern countries have fewer nuts in chocolate because they want less nuts in chocolate, right? Therefore, this law also makes it impossible for products purchased by citizens in the Republic of Croatia to be weaker and lower quality than they are in other countries. So this law is good. I think the Ministry of Economy adopted most of the remarks to achieve a fruitful balance on conflicted requirements and the HNS's Club of Representatives will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75251	Thank you very much. counterpart Nada Murganić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75252	... [[Speakers off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75253	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75254	Dear Vice President, I apologize. In this opening presentation, you spoke about the importance of the EU and the Directives that are extremely important in general for changing the awareness of the meaning and role of consumers about their position until then, which we, as ordinary consumers, are sometimes or very often and we have a feeling, no matter how big or small this purchasing power is, there is no day or moment that we are not in this consumer role. However, all of us ordinary average consumers expected this law to be really our law, a law that would protect the consumer. And he is, so we don't immediately realize that he's a general critic. But maybe just to explain some things, especially this article 4 that speaks about the relationship to other laws. The way in which at the beginning of this law mainly refers to EU regulations and directives without being linked or counted by our acts, the act of the Republic of Croatia, starting with the Constitution, in some ways confuses and demeans the legislator. And Article 4 which states that if some of the provisions of this law are contrary to the provisions of the laws governing specific sectors and not in conformity with the acquis of the Union, this will be subject to the provisions of certain specific laws. It would be necessary to determine exactly what laws and what their hierarchy is because it creates the impression that space is reopened for some so-called. holes in the law that will go to the consumer's harm.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75255	Replication response, Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75256	So colleagues should certainly not miss out on those advantages that the Republic of Croatia has with its EU membership and the need for citizens to follow the process more actively, and it is up to us to try to bring this place closer to them and all those gains that citizens have, and the Republic of Croatia should also have. And this is a nice example because it is a gain that is far more developed than was Croatian gain due to delays, due to specific conditions, and we in some way accept in a accelerated way not only that gain but also that practice. And that is a great advantage for consumers and should be stressed. And this provision that says that, if the EU laws are not in accordance with this law above this law, it is a general provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, we have signed this by signing the EU accession treaty, so all international contracts are above the law of the Republic of Croatia, if there is a conflict between these two legal levels. Therefore, it is something that must stand and that is ritualistic character. More precise provisions that these laws would be, of course, possible to put in place, but it's obviously a step ahead of us. How complex this law speaks of two provisions of this law, and I spoke of one. So it's a reasonable amount of product, and it's not defined what a reasonable amount of product is, what would that mean, 15%, 20%, 30%? As many consumers can access and buy this product, it does not say anything here. And the issue of the average consumer that exists here in the law as a term is the same question as how to define it. Therefore, these are all issues that remain in the further development of the regulation of this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75257	Miss twilight replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75258	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, in most of your presentations, I agree with my esteemed colleague, but here's a little bit of dyspression when you mention marketing, of course strong marketing, and I think it affects our consumers very much. Sometimes the demeanor used to talk about someone we're a consumer society, it was kind of demeaning, and today unfortunately, regardless of the disastrous conditions of all of us we are. You mentioned back in the '90s that that marketing didn't have much influence, it was too tight, so the truth is, somewhere in the 81st year there was just some oral marketing where we'd buy coffee, I don't know the powder, the oil because it wasn't there, but let's let it go now. Just for this moment, I'll say other things in my discussion of interest. Here it is, HEP, power distribution. If the obvious current of that incasator that comes, here I am on my example saying, the man is at least another one in 20 years older than me and he's reading, I say you want the lamp, no, I see, and now he's taking what he read from my 50 squares apartment that has home appliances like everyone else and I get after that the difference of electricity 2000 kuna, the war of 600 kuna, I go to the power plant because I've been reading my number, I bring it there and ok, the missus without saying it all down, ask me how much I want to do the war, I said, listen, I wouldn't pay it at all if I could decide on it and then she sees to me how much I had last year and some price of 129 kuna and ask her if I could bring my next month's condition, that if you could bring your data will cost 25 kuna and here she was the incastor, and I'll have no more than 250 people. Here's what I don't get.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75259	Col. Jozo Radoš, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75260	Well, colleagues of the twilight, marketing is what it is, so maybe we'd like him to be a little less discreet, if he were more discreet, but it's a legitimate instrument of business policy that needs to be regulated anyway. So one way to regulate that marketing is also this law which therefore speaks of unfair business scratches, of misleading fair practice, of aggressive business practice, and all of these are, therefore, all of these elements of marketing that are incorrect in general by saying this law are prohibited or sanctioned, but of course there is a procedure in which we need to define all these instruments precisely and come to an effective application of this law. Of course, it won't be easy, but first you have to ask the general question in principle so that later in application you can go into its development. As for Hep, as you know, the Republic of Croatia has passed laws that allow freedom of supply of electricity and distribution of that energy and, of course, the Republic of Croatia will be part of the single European energy market, so that, as consumers, of course, when created, all European electricity transmission networks will come into the situation to freely choose the operator according to the quality of the service they provide and at the price, so that this lady who told you that the processing of your request at a price of 25 kuna probably under these new open market circumstances, and this will happen very soon with the basis of our laws and the basis of the European third energy package, probably won't look for you, but will be very happy to receive and process your request for 0 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75261	Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75262	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Radoš, I liked your initial and final part of the exhibition. You initially said that 8% of retail trade is in the EU, that this applies to cross-border trade, so on the internet, etc. But today, the world is a global village, and besides the EU, it trades with the United States, Canada, China, Indonesia, Thailand, and I don't know which countries. Therefore, as Croatia has a Commissioner in the EU for Consumer Protection and regulations are not the same everywhere as EU regulations, I think it should work through our Commissioner and globally, a trade organisation in order to possibly bring those rules, which are positive, to an excellent level across the world. We have a chance, we have a chance. Secondly, when you were talking about aggressive business practice, then you noticed great shows on commercial or public television in which simply after some part of the film screams commercials, screams literally with so much tonality, Black Egg or Konzum, or I don't know what with new products on the discount to cause man to have to constantly adjust the volume of tones on that television. That's amazing, that you ten times in the evening, 10, 20 times the number of times you have to adjust it and that's a great thing. The third thing that you said was that it produces from a domain of medicine or a pair of medicine, a pair of medical products against obesity, baldness, for liver, for hair, for asking God what, untested, therefore quality, enters our market through these ads where advertising is made impossible from the cure of immunity, malignant diseases, ask God what to say about this also the Croatian Medical Chamber and the Croatian Medical Assembly and everyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75263	Thank you. Replication response, Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75264	Comrade Grubisic, you say you like my opening and final part of my presentation, and I am trying to convince you that the middle part was just as good. So you're talking about 8% of cross-border trade in the EU, which is actually very small and of course the perspective of how the issue of online trade is regulated more and more is becoming more secure and simpler, that this percentage is going to grow, but it will also increase the percentage of trade with other countries. Of course, it is part of the possibility of influence from the EU and through a world trade organisation, but one part of its potential is through these particularly large, important agreements on mutual cooperation and trade that the EU is making. For example, a free trade agreement with the United States will bring about 1%, assessing the growth of EU member states' GDP, and then in that contract that weighs several hundred billion euros, it will also contain the possibility of regulating cross-border trade with the significant country. A little less important, but still very important is the future free trade agreement, i.e. on trade relations with Japan, which will also enable regulation and that issue, but I am of course in agreement with you that the EU, and also through our Commissioner, needs to tell it, is one of the ways that we are telling him if he sees this Parliament, that his work through... a trade organisation also regulates this area and consumer rights and in that trade which has a growing and larger perspective.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75265	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75266	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Radoš, I noticed your quote when you said that by introducing these new technological achievements, all our problems arise. God forbid the Internet is our biggest problem, but I think for the consumer, the biggest problem is the drop in purchasing power, which is what consumption falls and everything else is about, that I don't repeat it, the statistics every day are like that. But you know what's really going on? Well, that internet isn't at all in that consumption, buying every day that significant. You know, these guys who get us all nervous a lot, these flyers, these guys who come to addresses, they defend themselves, these flyers, people get their flyers on the table, and then there's the race. There is a race on these various actions, which has a consequence of buying non-quality goods, and a special story is buying non-quality food and, of course, it comes to the famous statement that one inspector said, that she would not eat food from the shelves of these large centers, nor would she consume food. The consequence, of course, is that our domestic quality food, production, decreased, we know that I'm not repeating it. I was talking about meat, milk, here's Grubisic, I didn't want to talk about milk, but Grubisic told me that consumption fell, production by 30%. It's a big problem, and for sure, but I'm not in everything that I don't agree with you, of course with regard to these medical or medical or all-powerful preparations, it says it needs to be supervised. But also there is one problem, the problem is in absentia, availability and quality health care, the sick man is ready for everything and he starts taking various preparations and of course and it is one problem that should be kept in mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75267	Replication response, Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75268	You're a colleague of Milinkovic's, not me, telling him that all our problems are starting with the Internet. If that were the case, then it would be good, some problems must come with globalisation in general, and the Internet is one of the aspects of the manifestations of the inevitable process of globalisation, according to the Internet, while some problems are coming, but with the Internet there are opportunities. It's always up to us to see if we're going to make more use of the occasion, or if we're going to get involved in the problems that some manifestation, some phenomenon brings in like this really powerful phenomenon of the Internet. As far as advertising is concerned, this law allows, it must have been an explanation of the previous law, that where citizens say, residents, citizens not to go to commercials, it is therefore forbidden to put advertising into mailboxes, but the issue should be regulated more precisely. And one of the very interesting questions, when you were talking about food production is the production and sale of milk. I wish you'd talked about it a little more, you surprised me a little bit, and you didn't even mention the cheese.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75269	Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75270	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Rados, I agree with your debate, I'd like to only supplement it in a few segments. First of all, I agree with your qualification that consumer legislation is an extremely important topic, not only for Croatia, but for the Union in general, but also for modern, let's call it a conditional consumer society, and how important the subject is also the fact that the EU itself has a Commissioner who deals exclusively with consumers as well as the Federal Republic of Germany to whose legal practice and political system we often call and love to copy it, has a Minister for Consumer Protection. So, one entire ministry that deals exclusively with this policy. What I wanted to complete was to say the following. You mentioned the Internet store at a bit, though it is modest in percentages, but it has existed before, so at least within the circle of people I communicate with and they have previously, mostly from abroad, just ordered goods over the Internet and it is extremely good that we will give a legal basis to this kind of trade. I also think that you've identified the problem of marketing or the problem I'd say the wildlings on one side of marketing when marketing experts tell you you don't have a bad location and you don't have a bad product more or less investment in marketing. It goes even so far that psychologists are working on marketing, so creating a demand where it's actually gone. And it is good to introduce regulation into a law which, with a specific reference to actions that a trader can do so with the aim of changing consumer behaviour that would otherwise not be so. So marketingly conditioned consumerism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75271	The answer to the line by Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75272	My colleague Hajdukovic, well, I don't think it's important how many countries there are ministries, as they are called, so it's not quite irrelevant, but it's not a key question about which the spear is often broken. It is essential that the whole procedure of the State's mission is ensured in an appropriate manner. How it will be organised is of course not an irrelevant question but certainly not the most important question. The competent authority of the public authority for the application of this law and for the implementation of this law shall be the Ministry of Economy. In this body, public authorities are formed by the basis of this law but this is not a new solution, it is likely that something has been improved in relation to an earlier solution, consumers' advisory bodies are formed to protect consumers who always include a consumer representative, which should guarantee an adequate level of protection. Similar bodies are also formed in units of local self-government but also in traders who then finance them. It's always a question of how you're going to exercise one right without burdening someone else and reducing their business opportunities. It's now a question that needs to be monitored and regulated anyway. And it is a particularly indecisive issue it is a constant struggle will be how to regulate marketing, how to put it within borders, how to bring it into frames so as not to endanger consumer rights, and yet allow a completely legitimate and necessary competition and product advertising. And that game between consumers, producers and the role the government has in all of this will never end. It's a constant battle ahead of us. And this law is a step towards better regulation and that area.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75273	Vice President Zeljko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75274	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I've been offered an announcement by Honorable Representative Rados, what you mentioned about aggressive advertising of various products that are literally given miraculous properties. Here is a colleague Grubisic referred to it from being able to lose weight without any child for 20, 30 kilos in a month or a week to grow lush hair, etc. However, I would like to say that without this law, there are instruments to control or disable this. There are a whole series of regulations in the field of health, in the area of medicines, in the area of food supplements that very well regulate it. Unfortunately, however, they are not implemented and unfortunately none of these or producers, or which give these ads or media, for which sanctions are the same if you are not true or claims that attach treatment properties to products which do not have a proven property, are to be punished, there is a possibility that penalties are simply not implemented. So unfortunately, we, as in many other cases, do not implement the existing regulations that give us enough instruments that many things that are not what we should be doing, so we rarely think that some future law will solve and invent new laws, new rules instead of applying the ones we have. Because we already have enough opportunities to punish and control things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75275	The answer to the line by Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75276	Well, I'm glad to hear that we have these regulations, but otherwise I think that our practice is therefore the conduct of health authorities, and then health care professionals in terms of challenging or warning citizens about the harmfulness of certain medical products quasi is very low intensity. I don't know why this is happening, but if an aggressively advertised product has very small or very problematic positive effects and very severe negative consequences, it seems to me that it would be the tasks of the competent authorities, which are the health authorities to react to it. So you must know a lot more about this than I do when you tell your doctor that you have an offer, some possibility of alternative treatment, he will very rarely give his opinion. Of course it is a very delicate and moral position but it would be logical that there are still some rules in which a doctor has a reaction and should react to protect a citizen. So if there are these regulations, it's nice to me, but it should certainly be done to make those rules apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75277	On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, a colleague of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75278	My colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry of Economy. The proposal for a consumer protection law is a very important legal text from a number of facts for us at the SDSS club. I'll try to bring some out in my debate. And so the first and the basic question is why is this legal text going according to emergency procedure, why isn't it going into two readings? Because in one part of the law itself, it foresees that, in implementing the logic of this law and the legislator's intentions, the legislator will establish certain associations which, as a consumer protection association, will monitor the implementation of this law. Why did this debate, therefore, not give a wider debate a chance for certain associations, for consumer protection associations not to give their opinion on this legal text? So we are to pass this law, we see that the ministry has made a certain effort to regulate this serious matter through these provisions, but we think we should give room for another broad public debate on this subject. Of course, the assumption of the adoption of this law is certain European standards that already exist in the European Union countries because in the European Union it is a fundamental postulate of the protection of consumer security and rights and that is, above all, the priority of all European Union countries' policies. Of course it is because it is a law that directly applies to 500 million consumers living today in the space of the single European market and of course those consumers who have built a culture far stronger than us, related to the protection of their own rights, expect a rich and quality offer, but the basic rule on the market, which is that for the value of their money, they get about the same equivalent in the quality of goods. And that's the basic logic of the Western market, as much as I've invested, I want so much quality to get. In that logic, too, the need for accurate information should be added to what is purchased and to what is happening on the market. The data say that consumer spending, in other words, the purchasing power of the European market's population accounts for 56% of the EU's GDP, thus not a small capacity. The purchasing power of the 500 million market in any case encourages the economic development of European Union members and therefore is a very high sensitivity to the protection of such high purchasing potential as the 500 million market. So, for example. in the European Union, the safety of toys, electronic devices, vehicles, the safety of medicines, the correctness of medicines, food, cosmetics, etc. are the subject of special attention when it comes to the safety of goods and the security of the market. In addition, we have also witnessed the rapid response of users or users of services in the European Union to the example of toys imported so-called. toxic toys from China. The lead paint used by these toys has been targeted by world human rights organisations for years and is said to be more than 9 million toys for this reason have been withdrawn from the European market. Of course this is not the case and we will not say that it is the intention of Chinese production to pollute the European Union market, but we want to say that manufacturers do not have such high-building and high-level standards in the protection of products as set out in the criteria of the European Union market. That's why, of course, that incident I was just talking about happened. In this new law that is before us, we at the SDSS think that it is well-conceived, we think that it goes to the hands of the protection of citizens and we think that there are three key things that are important to say and three goals that need to be implemented in order to really implement this law as the legislator intended. First, it is necessary to declare the goods correctly on the market and it is in a series of provisions here precisely and said. The other thing that matters here is that citizens are informed about their rights and about the protection of their rights. And it's in one part of that law here quite well processed. The third thing is the consistent conduct of inspection bodies, i.e. market inspectors of the Ministry of Economy. Without that key thing, all the things we've been saying in the future, it doesn't make sense. Why do I say that? The most sensitive group of consumers are people of older age and persons of poorer health, as well as children. Often, the items of fraud are various presentations in their homes, as well as the deception and signing of unfavourable and suspicious contracts. The various health institutions that have already been mentioned here appear to them with a promise that in a moment they will solve all their health problems, which is of course far from reality. Many travel agencies organise dinners that offer the signing of travel contracts for exotic destinations, most of which are never even realised. Aquisitors of various agencies that make contracts for teleopers offer the conclusion of contracts under more favourable conditions, of course, they say. Consumers are rarely given full information about the services they offer, they often do not present themselves, and they also give consumers false information about who they represent. We have a case in Pakrac, in the Slatin Drenovs last year where the old men were cheated. So, for example. Agents of different teleoperators are landing those returnees of an old man living alone, offering them more favourable services, without justification for the consequences of the conclusion of these new contracts. They promise that they don't have to do anything, they don't have to log out from other operators, so that's how uninformed people pay one and another teleoper's compensation. Of course, behind that is the sequencing of the things that come to these people's property. We have a case in the Voćinska municipality in some villages with no signal at all, but traders managed to sell these old people cell phones. Not only that, but they've tied them to contracts that last for 12 months, which bind them for 12 months, and there's no technical assumption of making such contracts. There's also a case in Face where it's been determined, where a grandmother regularly arrived for a TV subscription account, and that poor woman didn't even have a TV in her house. There's a special story in any case about the billing of a TV subscription. It's a special story for the sake of a TV subscription. We have cases that people for 400 kunas of back payments for the TV subscription since 2012 have been granted a commission, a blockade of all accounts with expenses of thousands and 400 kuna. So, 400 kuna obligations for a TV subscription dating back to 2012. She's probably already out of date. And that's the service of the 1400 kuna law firm. All in all, 1800 kuna for someone's gamery. The problem is also different controllers who fake themselves to collect electricity and TV subscriptions, just like your colleague Sumrak said here. They deceive old people who live alone in remote villages, and there are those who abuse their position for the same reason. At the end of last year, an HRT controller broke into a 95-year-old woman's house in Gornji Selište near Glina, asked to charge $480 for a radio checkout, and threatened to jail. We don't think that controller's sanctioned today either. Therefore, if all of this is considered, citizens' information is the first task in protecting consumers today in the Republic of Croatia, and it is the task of the state to ensure this. We see that the state has tried this through this legal text and done it in particular in Articles 124 to 134. In these 10 articles, this section of information for citizens sought to process and edit normally. What I would ask here is what a dilemma is for me, so in Article 126, it's quite a task to give units of local self-government, and that sounds nice to the local self-government units. However, it also assumes municipalities that today barely survive, which have such a financial, budget deficit that they cannot finance themselves. And we here say that they must establish associations that promote and promote consumer rights. This means that they must provide them with both space and probably as soon as it comes to registered associations, they have the right to certain funds from the budget and local self-government. And the question arises whether every single unit of local self-government should be set up to protect consumers. The question of whether it should be in all cities. It would be quite logical for these associations to then form at the level of regional self-government, i.e. to create at the level of the counties some associations that will deal with the problem of consumer protection. Article 132 here states who can organise counselling and information, so we can see that these are other than these associations that I spoke about also physically or legally based on a public tender. So, the state will have a certain financial, or budgetary expenditure again, because of course no one is working for nothing, and of course those implementing the projects will assume that it will be in principle projects, education workshops, etc. all this will cost and all this is a new cost in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Article 134 is therefore regulated. A key thing if market inspectors from your ministry don't do business seriously the way control authorities should do it, then this whole initiative around this law is at stake. So we at the club support this legal text, but we think he should go to another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75279	Thank you. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75280	Dear colleague, you are talking about how this bill is also planning to establish, i.e. the possibility of establishing new associations. I must say immediately that consumer protection associations were great protectors of people, consumers and their standards. Both their actions and reactions depended on where the association is. I think these associations are very agile and very active everywhere. These are the examples of associations that provide concrete assistance to citizens and benefit from their activities. However, with growing protection, we have an increasing number of people’s frauds and increasing consumer fraud. And that's something we need to worry about. When we didn't know what consumer protection was, say, and in the past system of goods was first-class quality. Maybe the design wasn't working. No one's ever been poisoned. Here's to, perhaps, reminding ourselves that the Mesnica Street in ancient times has actually been named after these ancient butchers, in the middle of the summer there was no refrigerator or anything like that. But I don't know if it's ever been reported that someone poisoned themselves with meat, because we know how the owner would have spent it if people had poisoned themselves. However, we return to today as the people in the products, especially should be sensitive to food products where you give big money for something more quality food and where it is a public secret that water is injected into the chicken breast, that instead of those squid rolls, the tripices are even cooked, that in the chestnut mashed pea, the pea that is cooked. It's a terrible scam. And besides, some frauds are such that they are also harmful to health. For example, in honey where not only certain syrups are added that are worthless, but also a special substance that must be very harmful to human health. It's something that needs us all to worry about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75281	Thank you. Replication response, Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75282	I thank my colleague, Ingrid Antičević. So, we share the same concern about the quality of food we eat and GMO food is a trend and tripice and breast and honey, and all of this is expensive and all of this is ultimately subject to some inspection supervision, and that is why I said that the key link in the implementation of this law is correct, i.e. professional work of inspection bodies within the Ministry of Economy. The other thing you said to the associations, in any case, I agree that the importance of associations in education and control of certain market disorders is an important thing, but I also expressed my doubts whether associations should be in every local self-government and whether each municipality and one of the smallest who has its own problems financially and without doing so has imposed one administrative additional obligation and such local self-government. I think it should be raised to a higher level of local, or regional self-government, and then it will have a much stronger logic. You cannot expect the municipality of 2,000 inhabitants to have an association and that they will be able to influence some market developments, market flows and have a significant impact on consumer protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75283	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75284	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I agree with your colleague that this is too important a law and that no matter what P.Z.E. is, it should have been considered. Not to go into emergency proceedings but to go into two readings because it seems to me that you should shake him pretty well, if anything else comes to the public, his importance. The problems you've been talking about, let's just say, specifically about the telephony operators, they're everyday. This law really concerns every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. I will mention an article here that speaks of how it is forbidden to leave advertising messages and materials in or on mailboxes and on or on the front door of the consumer if such a ban is clearly written on them. I think we should drop this if such a ban is publicly written on them. Because what does that mean in practice? That means tomorrow someone can show up who's gonna take out the trash in front of your house because it doesn't say it's supposed to be banned, right? Because leaving advertising messages is creating junk, people taking it and throwing it away. So someone's creating trash just because you didn't write on your mailbox or in front of your house that you shouldn't do it. Therefore, the provisions of Article 17 are simply unacceptable. So, you should ban it simply. Let them find ways of making them, how to get to the consumer with the best message, but don't make us garbage in the mailboxes or in front of the house. So there's a lot of regulations here, but the key thing is actually the supervisory bodies that control it. A lot of questions are being opened here by this law and much of course goes to the benefit of consumers, but we would say in terms of consumer protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75285	Replication response, Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75286	Thank you. So, a colleague in any case a modern way of advertising marketing and the pace of life leads us to get into the mailboxes of a bunch of these papers that we don't read but roll. Now, even out of revolt, what you might read more and I don't read anymore, because so much is aggressively put on every day that it's a question of taste and not to say some ecological component, etc. And here, in any case, should be ordered by the legal text if it can't be otherwise. So I agree with you on this, and that's why I think once again this law should go into two readings because there are experiences that should be further revealed in this debate and then this law will be much more effective. There's no need to rush in and bring this in an emergency procedure. Nothing's so urgent, nothing's alarming, and nothing's going to get rid of it any faster if we bring it in Friday without any broader discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75287	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75288	Dear Madam Vice President, colleague Horvat. Well, we're here talking about consumer protection, let's say I raise my hand for this law, protect what we can and who we can in this way that's proposed in the law. But what's unspeakable here? I don't think it's the main issue of these issues being addressed in this bill. These are side effects, that's what we buy or don't buy on a voluntary, voluntary basis. There will always be someone who will sell the horn for a candle or who will buy the horn for a candle. Me first and the rest of us. The problem of this country, the problem of consumer protection is the problem of protecting consumers from the country's press, from the state monopoly. It's electricity, it's water etc., you know the rent and this and that. 370,000 people are on lockdown. In Velika Gorica, they flooded his house, and Croatian waters sent him an account against the floods, and it did not dig him a canal. On the other hand, the state gives associations 3 billion, a billion and a half from the central state budget, a billion and a half from the local administration. We act like a spoiled country, like feudals living on a hill and dancing up there. I won't blame anyone for stopping the dance, and the farmers down there have nothing to eat. So why can't the state say for two years there are no associations in two years, not abolish, and three billion each. Six billion can make all the channels you want. And we're acting like a dissident state. Yesterday we abolish the 67 million kuna wood-processing industry that holds 50,000 jobs, those concrete 50,000 jobs. That's what we take and give to the associations. What associations? Some needy and some unnecessary. Speaking of associations, you and the others. So we're acting irrationally. Consumers should be protected from the widespread irrational set and in any way by the negative state administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75289	Thank you very much. We're part of the state, so we've got to figure it out. Replication response, Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75290	Thank you. My colleague Marasovic, in any case, you have said what most citizens are troubled by, and that is so-called. Director, that's what you said to the state monopoly. I wouldn't call it a state monopoly but simply what we have to pay for every month, but unfortunately it's so much today that most of the population just lives to be able to serve the directors. And once upon a month ago, we talked to another topic about the consequences of such one behavior, which is the blocking of accounts due to the overhead costs. The worst thing is when you don't know that you owe 200 kuna for some kind of overhead and then you're blocked by your card and you're on your way so you can't tank it, or a citizen comes to buy some supplies and finds himself in a very awkward situation that his card is blocked and ashamed of some sort of overhead. It's our reality today, it's our life. That's what's happening, and that's why people are nervous. It's been expenses before, but it wasn't charged as charged now. The TV subscription was an incassator student who visited the place for small money, knew everyone and charged it if not today, tomorrow, he charged it the day after tomorrow and no one was too late. The TV went off if you didn't pay for it. Now you pay the fine of two years ago you don't even know, you forget, that's why with the terrible interest and the expenses of the on-call lawyers that make the most money on 400 kunas, a thousand 400 kunas of expenses, never better profits for law offices than now, than to get an exclusive on this kind of thing, at representing the overhead costs. The nicest thing today is the most rewarding job in our country. That's where I agree with you. Now that's that pression where we have to loosen up as a society because the people are getting more nervous about this thing, and every association as soon as it's formed has the right to seek funding. I also think that the associations formed by this law on each municipality will have to be financed from the budget of that municipality and that will be an additional problem for that municipality.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75291	Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75292	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Horvat, we can agree that consumer information is extremely important and that this debate should be seen as one step in this direction, because consumers themselves, in order to consume, or be aware that certain rights have, must be informed of what gives rise to pressure and to traders themselves to respect these rights. What I wanted to complement you was to talk a lot about consumer protection, however, this law per se has two segments. One is consumer protection, but the other is trade protection, and how? This law regulates the consumer-trader relationship, as well as the trader-trader, so first of all we are talking about unfair competition or traders who have abused the means of action, action sales, discounts, reductions and the like, misinformed by informing the consumer about the purchase and thus were in fact unfair competition for those who wanted to do business under the law. It's also one of the big problems that I think we should definitely point out in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75293	The answer to the replica? No, yeah. Miss twilight replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75294	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Horvat, I agree with you and support that this law goes to another reading. Indeed, you've noticed this problem of blocking accounts where people really don't know and when they find out, they faint. Because here's what's going on, there's a war of law firms going on over who's going to get a charge in some big companies it's a local administration, say in Zagreb Holding or somewhere else in the state, it's a very, very cost-effective job. What I would still like to agree with you that you spoke well, the most sensitive groups in society are really older people, and really there are children, because they put pressure on their parents, they get to say so in a filla eppp about food, about toys, about clothes about everything and parents, or older ones who care, they just have to buy it because if there is no particular product on themselves will be because of this kind of consumer mentality that was created in some way demoted in society. Now we're having holidays, Easter, and then we're having Christmas, so we're going on vacations, whatever the holiday is, it's such a pressure, such colorful lies wrapped in paper that it's horrible. Nowhere else does that sense of the spirit of a holiday be cherished but the holiday is given equally, equal to a bunch of things, piles of food on the table, and then it's all thrown away. And that's why I think and I think you'll agree, since the EU has...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75295	Thank you very much, Miss. The answer to the line of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75296	I'll just answer to this part of the replica when you were talking about law offices so something doesn't stay unsaid. In fact, these law offices only use what they're allowed by law, so just what they're allowed to do, and I'm not saying that they're misusing things, but I'm saying that we didn't set the system right, or we set up a system that goes hand in hand, and it doesn't go on the hands of the citizens, and we have to turn that thing around.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75297	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75298	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Horvath, it's not exactly what you just said. Namely, when you talked about it then we had to have a discussion here yesterday about budget rebalancing and we mentioned that the fiscalisation effect proved to be in the catering and trade with 20% and 40% points, thus increasing revenues from trade and in legal services only 4.8%, what does that mean? How is that only 4.8% in these services? This means that there is still a certain possibility of precisely law enforcement services to increase income from fiscalization, not all of what is earned by a lawyer, that's one thing. Second of all, telephony operators, so you set your own examples, so every day, I wouldn't leave out any of the MPs here who don't receive complaints from citizens about the robbery by the teleoperator and about the banks that I don't talk about. I'm the victim of certain bank transactions where I had to pay for some things, but my God. That's what they say by law, so come on. And the fact that we've become a consumer society, that there are executions on the TV subscription in which these lawyers earn, so you don't pay 5 wars, that's $400, but it comes to you not only 1800, but a lot more to collect, that's terrible. Therefore, the work for the Consumer Protection Association, the job for the state, for the market inspection has its hands full and will not be able to solve everything it has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75299	Replication response, Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75300	Of course, there are also jobs for market inspection related to this segment, but there are obvious jobs for other inspections, some other state services. In this first part of what you were saying about the fiscal effects of legal services, I wouldn't go into it, but obviously there's some disproportionateness between what's written in public and what turns out to be effective in the budget and I agree with you, there's work both in them and here about this Consumer Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75301	Vanya Posavac, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75302	I thank the esteemed vice president. My colleague, here's a sentence that encouraged me to report to this replica, you said children and people of older age are particularly sensitive. I won't repeat myself about children, what my colleague Gjurdzica Sumrak said, but we have another problem and that inspection surveillance must go into really real work, which is that in the local environments, in the immediate vicinity of schools and kindergartens, we have advertising actually content that should never be in this area. Unfortunately, all these lights, the jumbo posters are owned by most private companies, they just put ads on those who pay them, especially that's dangerous, for age, high school age, and these are betting ads where the kid's gonna be and that there's no money, that's what I've already talked about, steal home if I have to, or borrow and leave, and here, as far as the older age goes, unfortunately we have a lot of cases and what you've told me about this case, I didn't know about it, too. If we had cases of the very frauds of older people on the doorstep, it's about those apps at the door where, here's an e-mail from a Belovar citizen where the same aquisitors come to the door from one company that sells mobile services, so to speak, and they don't have any paper that would show that they're you and you and all that, so the woman didn't let them in, they went into the flats, there was everything and everything. So, that inspection surveillance, that's where I absolutely agree with you, has to do my job, and we really respect that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75303	Replication response, Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75304	Now I'm thinking, and in fact, the conclusion is that when we watch our ads that the highest percentage of time in advertising is being spent on mobile operators, so they're the most aggressive, they have very strange calls in their product shopping ads, but we also have the fact that the price is paid by parents, that children in primary school are burdened with that, with the latest models of these products, the latest models of these machines, and that we've actually turned into a society of mobile phone users. You today, other than cell phones, except for those TV cameras, in commercials they won't see anything else. Of course, then a wider social price is paid to such a single mobile hysteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75305	On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, counterpart Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75306	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy with an associate. I will start this debate by citing a series of examples that affect citizens and all those who are potential consumers. How many times did we get this afternoon when you're resting a phone call that says, by random choice you've been chosen for the prize, so please come to the restaurant and that one for dinner, you're accidentally chosen among thousands of people or consumers. She says she's advertised in a newspaper cream for, excuse me, toothpaste, but she can also rub shoes and even those who are bald can smooth their hair. It's a universal cream. Universal cream, for everyone. Then we see now that there are two mailboxes and at private houses, and also on residential floored buildings. Namely, one big box for all the mail and commercials that, not mail, but commercials that come from all possible trading chains, and the other for real mail. So, in order not to accidentally bury the mailbox for private mail, people have to, they're simply forced, they're forced to put on another mailbox for the many of these commercials that are coming to us, that we're suffering, and we could do a good business if we gave all that paper to schools that then go to buy out the paper so that the kids have money trips. Because so much paper comes in that, I'm convinced, that you have dozens of pounds if you look at the monthly paper that you might then sell and my wife collects it and gives it for charity, maybe for kitchen school as a colleague here said. I'm selling paper right now, so even the kids at school are collecting this huge piece of paper from these powerful commercials that, according to Mile Horvat, we're throwing away without even looking because we're so bored that every day you get out of 10 houses, chains of commercials that they can't believe anymore. And you ever have a good ad that you'd go buy something, you come in at 8:00 in the morning, says everything's sold. And it opened at 8, 8 and 5, so there's no more of that. I guess the employees took it from themselves and it's gone. It's a small, small amount of it, but they advertise it like it's going to be all day or another day maybe. No, no more. I'm not going to name the department store that does it, but I think most of us know, so I don't accidentally advertise that department store. But what does the state do? Every cop who stops you for regular traffic control, looks at your car and looks at your driver's license and when everything, if you don't smoke, you don't smoke if it's okay or not. He says sir, change your driver's license because we're in Europe and we need to replace the driver's license. A million drivers in the Republic of Croatia times 200 kuna replacement driver's license is 200 million kuna. You're being instructed by a police officer or a traffic cop to replace your driver's license. With the fact that when you take a picture for your driver's license, then you don't fit any photos of your passport or passport, but the third dimension of your photo so you don't have what's left of your passport or your passport if you happen to have a fresh, no, totally third dimension. We're going to make some photographers, some taxes, some new driver's license. Although from other Southeast European countries, as our foreign minister likes to say, people travel to Germany and other EU countries with their old driving licenses. .../The speaker speaks French./... as it is said in French only in French. Well, one of my friends, a acquaintance isn't even my friend, he was selling at the grocery market he dug up... so I'm saying how much you sell it, he says two bags of 50kg a day I sell clay. What are you selling for? It says for the treatment of veins, etc. It's going like a halva. Checked, not 100 kilos or sold, so that's amazing. Where's the market inspection at the market? Is that checked? Why is he selling the venison? It's just a piece of clay. Of course, the venison has the water draw properties and reduces the veins, it has some kind of effect. But I say a lot of people helped, and it's been declared that this miracle hunter. So these drugs on our televisions, commercial and public advertising, and then when it comes to a warning about side effects, they read so quickly that you don't get to hear it or hear it, I just hear a doctor and a pharmacist at the end better. It's terrible that as consumers, as people, as citizens of disdain, they don't respect us. Croatia too does very little about it. About why it's like that? Well, because Croatia eats 3 billion euros a year. Croatian citizens eat 3 billion food. Of which is 2 billion from imports or 15 billion kuna, and a billion is domestic production. About how I can never taste that sense of that beautiful smoked roll again 40 years ago that I bought at a store when I was a student, 50 I don't know how old I was. Why? Well, because this second one today is filled with water. She's on a scale heavy, we have a problem and quantity and quality. So you see that they also set us up with yogurts that were before 2dcl, now they're 1.8dcl at the same price. Coffee is no longer a pack of half a kilo but 40dkg at the same price. What are they doing? The bank offers a 5% interest loan to one of the banks, and when you get there, you say 3% of the credit bill. So when I calculate a reckoning of 100 thousand kuna, that's three thousand kunas of credit. That bank that offers 7%, it only has 1% of the credit. And when you close the loan, then another 2%, when you want to close early and pay, and no interest forgiveness, no interest, no interest, no interest. Is that fair? Is that fair? Where is this new justice spoken of from the President of the Republic to the others, to Minister Linic yesterday, etc.? Where is this righteousness, what kind of society have we become? And we don't worry about each other, we don't protect each other, and we keep complaining. Each of us has complaints about this kind of behavior in society. Generally accepted, so to speak, you've been deceived. When you buy any pasta then you have if it's imported, and most of them are such, then you have a four font written on who the manufacturer is, the ingredients of that tooth or I don't know what kind of pasta they come from, from which country, which country, who is the importer, so you have a strong number of importers. All imports require an importer, and the importer can be obtained if he has a good will from a particular ministry which grants an import authorisation. It's a good wish, that's just a good will. I wouldn't want to say anything but good will. It is said here that there would be no unfair competition between producers and traders if only reasonable quantities, as Mr. Radosh said, were put into seasonal or other sale. There are five types of sales and sales here, so it's under the number 1 seasonal downturn, sale, stock sale, sale of products with error and sale of products which are due to date of use. That's exactly how those five categories are defined, five species. If you go here now in Ilica to one store that's being renovated, I'm not going to name it again, then you see that when that sales say the final sale, it almost stops working, then you see that you only have certain numbers, no XL or XXL for me but only have S and M numbers, I'm talking about textiles. You can't win, only the little ones can get, let them write for little people sales, not for everyone else. Yeah, so go and see, actually now she's in the renovations no more. In the EU, Mr Radoš we were together, listening to a debate on the ban on importing photovoltaic cells from China because they are significantly cheaper than European solar systems. China produces 100% cheaper, right? We've been hearing about how the Animal Protection Society is asking for every pig to be castrated or what is said to be under general anesthesia. Even 200m euros were allocated for such purposes. Imagine, in Croatia, half of them are male, half female, half of them 500 000 should be slaughtered in general anesthesia only at the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine in Zagreb. How much would it cost to drive every pig in Zagreb for a kennel? We've got different Europeans here, I'd say nebulosis. Europe is not everything that is good and that we have to accept, so we have our own brains, it's not all ideal there. The banking industry, I've already said what it is, and you're witnessing that every memo that the bank sends you on debt, anything at all, writes a tariff, even though it's involved in the business of you as a committee and him as banks that you trust each other, but no. They found various ways, just to drain and rob these citizens. It is clear that these banks are owned by foreign banks and that such things do not work in the homeland where they originate neither in Italy nor in Germany nor in Austria, anywhere. Imports of food, what does it actually represent? So the food imports are credited to these banks, and in fact by importing food and consumption, Croatia and Croatian citizens credit food production in both France and Germany and everywhere, and 2/3 are imported food, 1/3 we produce ourselves. That's the main problem. And then he says we get customs, it was before, now customs, excise duty and everything else, it gets 5-6 billion in the budget, he says it's a lot given to peasants 2 billion for incentives. Well, you got six billion for customs and excise duty, as you were given a lot then only a third for peasants, domestics, which you destroyed with that import, you destroyed them. There's no market for domestic villages and peasants, but good. Distance shopping. How many have been fooled, by those who have ordered various products online with great ads all over the Internet, let's see how many have been cheated here if we could raise our hands to see how many of us we've been cheated on through this purchase, here are two honest, distance shopping. So we are making the directives as prescribed by the European Union for Internet Business, Trade within the European Union, and in particular goods from Japan, Malaysia, China or the United States, Argentina, Brazil and be deceived because they do not have to respect the decisions and directives of the European Union. They are not the European Union. That's why I've said and I'm asking that, through our commissioner, it be coordinated, and through the World Trade Organisation, whose members we're almost all members of. Consumer Protection Associations. If I were to ask myself and you and to be honest, those main associations, you might try to remember the names of that president of the association or not to remember, but few people know about these consumer associations. And even these consumer associations to protect consumers and when they act, they rarely employ any result that corresponds to a cheated consumer. So they hardly ever speak to consumer protection associations, and they don't even know that there are consumer protection associations, they don't know where their headquarters is, how older people will turn to them. No internet, no knowledge 7-8% of Croatian citizens are online educated, informatively educated. About advertising medical products on public and commercial television, that's amazing, that's terrible. I'm a doctor and I can't come to my senses. A preparation to improve liver function, preparations that have the same name and composition, but more companies are manufactured, they only have a different name, now I won't, so I have to... so neofen, so ibuprofen, so brafen, so I don't know what, all the same. It's all the same composition completely generic, but this firm says he's working on this, she's working on it and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75307	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75308	What's over? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75309	It's worth the same thing. Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75310	Thank you. Here is my colleague Grubisic. You will be able to continue through the replicas. I'll start with this last thing you said about the products that are advertised on TV. Well someone has approved the use of these preparations, so some procedure has certainly passed, and now the question is whether the proper procedure has passed and whether what has passed this procedure deserves to be called such a preparation, medicine, etc. So it's a matter of monitoring and controlling and granting permits for production. This could actually be understood under what this law treats as a misleading practice. I will mention one example concerning two drinks that could no longer be produced under those names when we entered the 1.7 into the European Union. In one case, it was a brandy that was the most sold product in the former state and on the other hand it was rum. So these types of drinks that were produced in Croatia in certain factories, now that I'm not saying bad advertising for these factories, have been banned from placing such products on the market anymore under that name. Why, because it's a fraud, a classic con. Products were produced which had no connection to substances that had to be satisfied, which must be produced in order to produce those drinks. For rum, it's sugar cane, and for wine, or brandy, it's a distilled young wine. So in one case or another, there was neither a distillery of young wine, and today it's not sold under the name of Brandy but under the name of brotherly wine. If anyone knows what kind of drink that is, let them explain it to me. And the second drink is no longer made under the name rum, but sold under the name of the room which is in the English room. So you have a room and you have some brotherly stuff. And it's sold as a drink, alcoholic beverages. Who has allowed such drinks to remain on the market at all except poisoning the consumption of the last few decades I don't know how many decades.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75311	Thank you. Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75312	Thank you very much. As for these pseudo-medical preparations, which are mass advertised on television, I am surprised only by the attitude and silence of our Medical Chamber, Pharmaceutical Chamber, Croatian Medical Assembly and others who would have to report on these things. I know that the pharmaceutical industry is very aggressive, organised and that on the market not only in Croatia, but also in the world they do wonders and huge profits. And as for the cognac, Brandy, I don't know if it's a rattle, so it's also called this former cognac of a factory in the area, let's say from Slavonia, so they called it "glazed" because that's what his little name looks like to me as a factory and rum or an English room room room. I'm not a user of these preparations, so I'm not informed, but thank you for your information.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75313	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75314	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow, you spoke well. What I might say is that in many cases the price doesn't correspond to quality. We often pay an unquality product very expensively and why? Because we're not well-informed about him. I would say that the ministries and the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Ministry of Economy are unfortunately not doing their work inspection for a while. If work was done, then of course we wouldn't be able to advertise individual products. It used to be, now it's food supplements, and sometimes it's called an auxiliary drug product, but it's no longer worth it. Well, then that would move from the market. We producers unfortunately in each group do not know both thin and fat and those who would like to be nice have a beautiful complexion, those who would like to be young and those who would like to grow a bit of hair color, of course that we are consumers. If someone bombes you every day with one of those same, unfortunately one part of the people kneels. However, what should be doing your job is an inspection. I agree with you. The domestic product and tastes of our youth of domestic products, of course, have changed and we can no longer find them. We cannot even describe it in any way to our children, for they are poisoned with all the other additives that are placed in certain products. But it should all be clear, clearly capital letters written that anyone can read.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75315	Thank you very much. Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75316	Thank you. I think we're much alike. So it's about fraud both in quality and in quantity that I've been talking about. And when I talk about those pine creams. Well, look who's on TV and 20-year-olds can even have a fight when she's 20 years old, and she advertises pine cream. Well, you saw for yourself, we know every night we watch, 20-year-olds, no grandmothers like our age, Ingrid. ... So when we talk about domestic products, I'm a proud grandfather. [[You can't hear it.]] And when we talk about domestic products, I often buy bacon and, as the Bosnians say, bacon, so in some department stores. But 15 days ago, I got bacon from my girlfriend who dried it himself and rebirthed, so believe me, the difference is drastic. That's terrible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75317	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75318	You tell a colleague I think I agree mostly with your argument, but you say here's how the banking industry behaves and it's a fraud. That name is a fraud. Services aren't industry. It's the biggest scam ever. First of all, the language discriminates, first of all it gets a name and a fake name. So besides what you said, our consciousness is different. The way strangers behave, the way they behave domestically. It only has to do with the awareness of punishment. So it's not someone who behaves differently outside of other motives, it's only out of fear because he has a conscience that he'll be punished. So all we're talking about is how many associations, but first of all, the state responds through inspections. And I think that all consumer protection that this crime was applied, and I'm going to read it so people know how much they cheat and how Lermontov was right when he said the world was just made of cheaters and deceived. Please, this crime is a little bit when it comes to trial, and there's still some kind of judicial epilogue. It's a scam. This Regulation shall enter Who, with the aim of providing himself or others with an illegal property benefit, brings a person by false display or by concealing the facts in error or by keeping him in error, thus causing him to do something to harm his or her own or other property, or not to be punished by punishment, etc. Further difficult forms are precisely who create exactly the system of advertising of acquisitions or other activities. Unfortunately, through this right now I can almost, I won't tell each other, but every fifth producer or bidder of some goods or services is classified. However, if you see through the annual report of the State's Attorney's Office how many of them are for fraud, so it's not just some extortion between two private persons, but most of all this can be watched through shopping fraud. Also through the illegal charge. How unlawfully are telecom services charged? How many, or how many of these communications companies? Water, electricity, utility?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75319	Thank you very much, dear colleague. The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75320	Thank you very much. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75321	And then we don't need a Rules of Procedure or a time measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75322	Don't count me yet, I'm 10 seconds away. Thank you very much. My colleagues, Ingrid, I think you've fully supported me in relation to my exposure. I used the term that Djuro Poppie said to the banking industry, otherwise it's not common to me, and I know it's not really industry, and it's not even, I'm not going to say, snide but rudely, uglyly say the banking industry because it's the least industry. It's a foundry maybe, that's the foundry industry, but it's not a banking industry, is it? Next, the repressive apparatus you've told us about and you've told us to be objective, it doesn't have to go to harm on purpose someone, just to be objective, it doesn't need anything else, so we'd discover and discover how much fraud is most of what you've listed as a telecom. And about the gas that someone had said here and charged for some so they said it was also for the 12th month that was a little colder than the first. I mean, the catastrophic explanations that people say that I don't want to say anything else, right? So also the peace of God. And no, there was a little bit in Osijek of rebellion, a little bit still somewhere, but here it lay slowly. We're a little bit weird, I'm not gonna say weird, but citizens are a little bit of our dove's heart. They simply forgive and forgive. There's just water to the throat, and there'll be no more forgiveness. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75323	Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75324	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Grubisic, you have spoken as well as usual of these problems and have cited a number of good examples that we all agree on here and are standing in the same way. But we can't, it's a shame to say here and to find some facts like you say if there's any good will in any ministry, they'll get passes. ... I agree, but it's someone watching us, someone chose us, we're responsible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We should run an activity here now, we should call out if we know there are such ones we have to react. We can't just keep importing 2 billion euros in food. What have we done? And our responsibility here is great. Those who choose us and those who look upon us expect us to do what we do. Now look at the situation, you've looked back a little on the Consumer Protection Association. I can tell you here from my experience that I've had contacts with that association, that they're very valuable people, there are a lot of good individuals who do it completely amateurally without any kuna compensation. They spend their free time and their efforts there. And we should be the ones to support them. Because you see how hard it is to deal with, you have cited a number of good examples, how hard it is to catch and what problems we have with these strong corporations, with these who have large amounts of resources and who can also invest in advertising, in buying and everything else. Now put yourself in the role of the people of the Consumers Association, who are only great enthusiasm, great will and desire to help those who are threatened. So I think that this association should be commended and supported, and we should also help them with how much we can do here as advocates and appeal to all those who can and more help them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75325	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75326	Thank you. Comrade Sanader, I'm the only one based on the indications and certain assumptions that I can, if I had proof, I'd do what you said. Some in this country are paid as allowance, and about the examples you've been talking about, there are others I haven't arrived yet. For three years, I've been buying an apple tree, and you've been handing out apples, and it's like it's like it's like the first fruit I see you're not sharing. So what do I do anymore? And declared apple-dividing, gold-dividing, for three years, I've been buying literally two, three, nothing, no apples. No, some are green, they claim God saves. But the declaration exists on them, right? And I can't find you sharing apples. If anyone in Croatia has the original to offer me, I'll pay no problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75327	Here, I'll get you one. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75328	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, Honored colleagues and colleagues. I'll stick to the subject, this is an introduction just so you don't interrupt me right now. Yesterday I asked Minister Linic how many employers were punished for not paying the salary? 70,000 workers don't get paid, and the law says it's a felony. Then why the law? Now we're talking about this big segment. And imagine now, in the area of consumer protection. And what my colleague Grubisic used to say before I'm going to start with the example so that you can see that it's actually impossible if you're not protected by the state, I agree with the association, valuable associations, I can't do that because it doesn't make the state what it's supposed to do. I started a subscription relationship with B-NET two phones. I've been trying to cancel one for three months, and I can't. Every time a new questionnaire, I have to write something every time. Why? Well, that's not even a big deal of money, but for them 20 kunas, 40 kunas every month, so a large number of subscribers, three months can't cancel the phone. When you answer that automatic number, you need 150 numbers to press normally to make a mistake once, so again and again and then give up and forget the second month, who can you complain to? No one, market inspections are working. Try to get the inspector on the phone, you won't get him. I just started a subscription relationship with THT on Cres, every weekend when I get there, I don't have a phone, I just hang up, why? Because they were supposed to dig in the wires when the wind blew, the wires broke, I never have a phone, I pay the subscription, I pay the subscription. Then I can't even use the Internet with which it's back with THT saying it's three months late but it's charged since the first day you ordered it. You get a machine that's broken down, you try to install it for two months no one comes for that machine, you have to take it yourself, bring the camera, wait for the other but during that time you pay the subscription. If you don't want to pay your subscription then this long trip with 150 questionnaires, give up and they know you'll give up. HRT subscription, so is it normal for people in Istria, Dalmatia, Primorje and islands not to see the HRT programme that they have to pay the subscription, and why can't they see it? Because the Italians, with a stronger frequency, are interfering with our space and there are tens of thousands of people paying a subscription and they don't see a program for what they pay for the subscription, they're looking at Italians who are trespassing and they're breaking into our space. It seems to me that a year, a year and a few days ago someone in the Parliament said that they sent a thousand protests to Italy, and what is done in these cases? Their space is being disrupted, it can't be different, it can't be civilised when they're not civilised and who can do it, can the consumer association protect Croatian citizens? The state can't, so the state doesn't do its job, it just doesn't work. They said that every morning at least I get nervous and these are ads, first of all in boxes, we have a board almost half a metre at the door that's not allowed to leave printed material, anyway, when one of the tenants comes in, even though the haustor's locked they go in, every time you find them in boxes and advertising papers. I asked a few how I could, I could report to a consumer who has hundreds of these applications, thousands of applications, but when the rule of law doesn't do that, but there's someone else, when they put you on windscreen, so when it rains, and then the sun gets dry, so you need to follow the car for it, and it's not, it's just garbage, you find if you don't drive a car for two days, you find 10, 15 of those papers, you're in a hurry, where you're going to put that paper or you have to put people in a car or often throw people down on the road, no one cares in the city of Zagreb, how is the consumer protected at all? So is this law going to change anything? It's not going to change just being a fantastic law because he's principled, he's principled. Second, the role of the Consumer Protection Association. We do not yet fully understand the functions and unions and associations of civil society and the various associations that protect us, these are even as decorations many believe that they are some intruders who suck up only money, but without these and civil associations and trade unions and associations for consumers, this society would be far worse, far worse. I'm the kind of law we got on the table that looks like bat life to me, when it comes out of the assembly like when a bat comes out of the dark and comes to a further light it no longer sees any contact with the world, with reality, so neither will this law have any reality because it's the state that doesn't protect not the consumer of the citizens of the Republic. A special story, colleagues used to say that banks, you can't get more credit in a bank if you don't make a deal with some house life insurance, and that life insurance, that's fraud against fraud, like bank credit fraud, so I dare say, it's robbery institutions, it's not money industries, robbery institutions. I was not sure who it was, I was in the minuses on the current account and then you have rules on how the bank behaves when you're in a minus, you have to pay a certain number of interest, cancel your minuses, and so, but not every day they call you on the phone at home, every day they put pressure on you for not being allowed, which is illegal, and that's what they do, and when I ask the officers why you do it, even... we have to do it all day long because we're ordered to get fired. Who's going to do that? Consumers' association will protect citizens from it, it won't because the state is not protecting them. All these big systems I've mentioned are states in the country and what's this about? It's just that we're not going to discuss this, and my colleagues are always asking me what you're talking about, and that's corporate democracy under quotes because corporations and democracy don't go together and more and more around the world is talking about corporate democracy, corporations are stronger than states. What it says is what colleagues and colleagues used to say in small letters, so you have shampoos where it doesn't say on the first page, but upside down, you have to watch what you bought through the shampoo, which is the size of a letter, the size of which you can't read, even with glasses. As older people and then often older people, you want to read me what it says, they said, I can't read it to you either, and neither can I read it to you. And what do you do? It has been said that the EU may not do so through the EU, they are stronger than the EU, we will not increase the letters. The law says here when you read that they wanted to be a letter of three millimeters, that people could understand it more easily. Those aren't little letters, three millimeters. There won't be those letters because even those letters on bank contracts are small letters to you, so you don't read 'cause anyone who takes credit barely gets credit, doesn't think about how they're gonna get it back, and especially doesn't think about it because he came to the bank, into an institution he thinks is being controlled by the state, that someone's going to cheat on them, and the only thing that's going to happen is that the citizens are wrong. So, all that talk about clothing sales, shoes, finally under quotes of food sales when it runs out, these are minor problems with all these problems because you have to have the Internet today, you have to make some kind of contract with companies that deal with it. When you make the deal, you're their slave because the only thing you can do, if you set yourself up like that, it'll shut you down, and that's the same gas station, that's your power plant, so it's the same water line, all of you. Someone mentioned earlier, it seems to me that a colleague of the coat of arms, that you need to have a doctorate to figure out what's in this account for you. I'm paying for hot water in Vlaška, and I've got a hot heating system, and when I asked why hot water, it says we haven't found a new house, so we put it under that house, you're paying for something else. I say take it off because it's not according to regulations, they shook their hand. I still have hot water in my account. Who can I complain to? Consumers' Association? How will the Consumers Association do that? Anyway, I'm not an optimist here. Yes, fellow Members, if the inspection works, the inspections don't work, if 100 thousand kunas and THT were paid to pay 100 thousand kuna each time, there wouldn't be as many citizens. Remember what they all had tariffs, how they peeled their skin with, not just money from their subscribers. What happened? Nothing. The tax on text messages has been reduced, actually abolished. So, the law is principled, I don't think another reading is going to be any more relevant to the amendments, or remarks, we've all got the amendments of the Consumers' Association, so that we can have some legal framework to maybe move slowly, but this is all that we've listed in this debate, from these flyers who welcome you every morning and say, and you immediately realize how powerless you are, you can't do anything. So they can break into your house and nothing will happen to them, nothing will happen to them. So they're not allowed in without a key, they're going in without a key. Who are you going to complain to? Control the water line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75329	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75330	Thank you. My colleague Vuksic, you have cited many examples of so-called "Vuksic". misleading practices, i.e. fraud, concrete and aggressive practices, which are actually referred to by this proposal of the law. It seems crucial to me who oversees law enforcement? That's the key. Who oversees the quality of the product and who oversees the behavior of the manufacturer, and how do they actually behave on the market? And it's something that seems to me that this law, regardless of the penalties that are in some parts and large, is not going to work out. The practice itself assures us that it's very difficult to get results, let's just say you mentioned telecommunications operators, they're acting illegally. I'll say one example from Dubrovnik. On one building, they illegally installed these base stations among the citizens, in a residential settlement where there are several thousand people, etc. Irregularly set up. The Ministry of Construction makes a solution to the removal and everything... more in the solution to the removal, so there is no longer the possibility of delaying it, but the ministry allegedly does not have enough operational and should wait, I don't know, a year, two days, 2001, a solution was made to remove, specifically their site from a building in Dubrovnik. By today's day, then 2014, the ministry promises to put it in priority in autumn. Therefore, it is quite clear that these institutions, these telecommunications operators, have a major impact on this government. Because if they didn't have power, the building inspector would take advantage of all the funds we discussed, and at their expense he would take down those illegally installed telecommunication operators' stations. About their expense. Here's a classic example in which you can actually see how they have an influence on power in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75331	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75332	I remember if you remember Kornath and the island of Žut, when they wanted to set up that big antenna, I don't know if it was set up or not, it seems to me it was set up, but after that it calmed down, in a national park without permission, without everything. This is when you said, yes, telecommunications companies act like state states. Unfortunately, they have influence, the global have influence, not only on this power, and on that previous rule they had. When I was talking, one of them is either THT and it needs or HT, it's supposed to be called here. When I was talking about those phones on Cres, they gave a man who had a private suite 20 wires to connect other private apartments and a gentleman from Slovenia and simply said, I daren't object because I don't know what's going to happen to me. He could simply cut all the wires because by our contract, when we made a deal with, at a time of communism, before the 90s, we made a contract and put in underground wires and lead you to your apartment. But they did it all in the air, and when we asked them to do it, they said we'd cut your phones off. The fact that we're subscribers for 30 years that we've been paying for 2, 3 thousand marks doesn't give you any rights, they can do whatever they want. Is there an inspection? It doesn't exist. Unfortunately, no one protects, you said that well, who oversees law enforcement is important. Who controls product quality, service quality? We pay full, everything has its price but the value is not adequate to that price and it happens to most citizens in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75333	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75334	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Now I'm gonna head back. You spoke well of this setting of antennas, but imagine a village Rudes it's an old village where the dense houses are now almost a year old people in that village are fighting against the fact that I would say a cursed antenna standing on the roof of a house, and the owner allegedly rented a house to a teleoperator, picked himself up somewhere outside of Croatia, they set up that antenna that radiates. But there is no force to remove that antenna. I guess it's the only force a force should be. The second thing I was going to say, you mentioned banks and loans, yes, who really needs to protect everyone? Well, the state, well you've said well, and I've been talking about inspections or penalties. So imagine a young man who buys an apartment from a company on loan, raises a loan, pays an apartment, and it can't move into an apartment and now he pays both the credit and the rent. Who's gonna protect him? No one. I personally think as far as this law is concerned that, as the EU has, it means to the national consumer commissioner, Germany has its own special commissioner, let us have the national consumer commissioner of Croatia. We have associations that will raise awareness and in cooperation with associations through this institution of the National Commissioner but that it can indeed represent the interests of consumers, not states, because the ministries that have competent inspections should do their job, and unfortunately most of them do not, and penalties should be charged because here we are the richer in society, the more aware we are. Our society is poor and can easily deceive us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75335	Thank you. Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75336	Dear colleagues of the Sumrak, that this is what the state has a duty to protect its citizens, and when you talk about the antenna in the Rudesh settlement and the practice that is going on there, it is amazing that in the 21st century the forces of citizens on self-defense, that citizens should protect themselves from corporations that do not respect the laws, foreign corporations that have bought our companies and which behave in the way they cannot behave in their own countries. I do not believe that Deutsche Telekom behaves the way it behaves in Germany or in some other countries as it behaves in Croatia. However, he behaves in Croatia because the Croatian state allows them to. When you talk about loans when a young man takes credit and starts paying off credit and finds the apartment incoherent or that it's above the mortgage or that there's no connection, there are laws that regulate it all. So this situation is impossible when we're looking at our legal operation. Yeah, that's what life is something else, laws are something else. Finally, we will succeed and then there will be other indicators in the GDP itself when we begin to follow the law and when we will all come from ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75337	Hope Murganic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75338	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Vuksic would really agree with you when you give recognition to the meaning of consumer associations that they had not only in the awareness of citizens that they needed protection or that they were deceived and deceived, but probably also affected the change of these legal regulations. Even consumer associations from the area from which I come are active and interested that, in these proposals, when they normally had a draft law, they insist that the Croatian Consumer Protection Agency be formed as one body established by the Parliament, so a state body with the aim of stressing the need for them as a roof organisation that would have power stronger than it is now in the law through these national councils, through advisory bodies with local self-government units and regional self-government through commissions that are among some traders, etc. I am truly aware of the fact that agencies are not popular and there is a general opinion in society that they are too expensive, but there is one danger that because of the multiplication of these associations how otherwise this happens with associations that they will divorce and that they will lose their real strength that they should have. That is why I am stressing in particular now because there is some doubt about the jurisdiction that the ministry here is in the law that the Ministry of Economy is responsible for consumer protection, but how do we know that banks also have consumer departments whether they are responsible for their inspections and for that area. Excuse me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75339	Thank you. Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75340	Dear colleague Murganic, I agree with you. Consumer associations certainly played a major role in the awakening of consciousness. In order not to be unfair, I often mention a HRT that doesn't do the basic work that should, which is to protect the interests of the public. There's one show that's great, and that's a consumer code, which is also actually a nucleus of waking up consumers' minds. What you were saying about agencies, when we talk about agencies, we always talk about over-numbered agencies and agencies that have no purpose, such as the agency that received 6 or 7 cases, for 4 or 5 has been found incompetent, and 2 has not been able to solve the problem. However, it should not be ignored if it is necessary to set up an agency to solve real problems in society I don't think anyone will have a problem with that. They'll mind the agency spending money, and they're not doing anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75341	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75342	You've told your colleague on many products, we all know that, there are those labels, little letters stickers, and usually those finer letters are a big scam because if there were anything, there's some particularly valuable ingredient then it would be bigger letters written than the name of the product itself. It's also a lot of citizen fraud, especially what we all have to do, so we can't give up water and electricity, so what we often call utility services. We must remember the time when, regardless of the payment or non-payment, it was impossible without a court decision to rule out water, electricity, television, TV subscription because it was considered to be a person in peaceful possession of the use of that service. Of course, the arrival of new times and this court practice made it unusual, so just now one that, I don't think was good because many of them were misusing so they didn't pay, so as this one still goes on for another year, two, three years. But then we got a completely different thing, a very aggressive and even more aggressive thing because the whole system, a whole corporation ran into such a consumer who could be absolutely right, where he was cut by such a service, so it's being valued if he doesn't pay a price or he's already paid it or he overpaid it and he doesn't have any protection. Or, after a painful litigation if you prove that he was right you only have an apology for such a person here we are confused. If we see how many such individuals have come into such a position that they have paid or are asked to pay something they have already paid or to charge them more. And there is no protection against it, until a fine crime is used, the use of a criminal offence, or the summation of such behaviour under the apparent criminal act of illegal charge, and let's see. I found myself in a similar situation, so they told me to file a complaint. I said I can only write a criminal report. There's...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75343	Thank you very much. Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75344	Dear colleagues Antičević-Marinović, yes, the system, someone said before what, so no individuals will pay. There's no need to worry about the system. The system is, and especially for corporations, they are always more powerful against individuals and the whole system has conspired against individuals and we finally need to think about each citizen individually. This is exactly what you said, if it were worth something on those letter products, it wouldn't be small. So you have some products that are more quality, I won't even mention the type of product, where when you see that it's quality and more expensive where the letters are normal size. It's just saying that most of the goods we import, especially when it comes to food, especially when it comes to some preparations that it's pure fraud and that we won't end this fraud when we don't organize ourselves as a society. This is a non-partisan, super-party law, this has nothing to do with any ideology, this really has to do with every smallest child, with the oldest people in the Republic of Croatia, all of us, regardless of party membership, and that is why I am glad that this debate has won that we are all almost unique in protecting us all from those who want to deceive us, drain money out of our pockets.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75345	Nenad dances, replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75346	I thank the esteemed vice president. Comrade Vuksic, you mentioned two telecommunications houses that you regularly pay for your subscription, but you have no connection. Well, it doesn't need to be a relationship, mainly that these telecommunications houses have profits, and three of the strongest telecommunications houses have a profit of 2 billion kuna. No one asks any questions, so they ask themselves, there are those who don't pay for it, but again these same telecommunications houses... interest them and again in that story have their own profits. This must be supervised, supervised by no one but this association mentioned for the protection of consumers who should certainly be given a much greater role and much greater importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75347	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75348	Dear fellow Dance, yes, telecommunications houses are in the state, say, when you make a contract with them and then you ask what tariff you're going to make, then you say 50 kuna or 100 kuna, then you get home account 90 kuna for 50, for 100 kuna you get 160, 170 kuna and then you look at the bill and you ask what it is. E has a frequency fee, this fee, that fee, and then, it's pure fraud, pure fraud, and it happens every day to cheat and take unearned money.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75349	We will now have a break by 15 hours, and the first in a single debate is Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75350	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. The individual debate will now be held by respected counterpart Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75351	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I support this proposal of the Consumer Protection Act, remembering now far away in 2002 and 2003 respectively, when we passed the first Consumer Protection Act. Of course, then I can say if I remember these times, it wasn't such a bold and vehement debate, and so is one unique assessment of the necessity not only of this law, but above all of those factors that, in the implementation of this law and in raising awareness of protection, make such a contribution. First of all, since the debate is almost unisoned, we all agree here that it is the consumer who is precisely in relation to the one who provides him with a service or from whom he buys goods the weaker side and how the state must protect him. If the state is anywhere then it must show its strength towards the weak rather than be weak toward the strong. I am therefore pleased that in this proposal, the law which speaks of inspection supervision in its work on the sixth part is precisely how the supervision for the implementation of this law will be carried out by the market inspector of the Ministry of Economy in accordance with the powers of a specific law. I think these powers should be taken seriously. In the same way, when a serious violation of this law is demonstrated, the European Court of Justice’s own inspection or the Ministry of General Affairs should assess whether there are also elements of criminal prosecution so that it would not be possible, by law enforcement under that famous European Court decision in the case of Maresti, that one State should not conduct two proceedings, criminal and criminal proceedings, but in no case, precisely because the infringement procedure had earlier begun to amnesty it in such a way from criminal liability. I'm afraid I don't know if anyone's ever been held accountable? And there are such heavy offenders and human health and fraud. I think that maybe if the time had come and we were discussing this issue because the crime I read and fraud in one replica this morning is too wide but such one behavior that cheats in every way and in different ways very imaginative consumers, forcing it in such a way by misleading and falsely showing the quality of the product itself simply suggests or leads the customer to buy this product. Therefore, this creates the characteristics of this crime, but I think that for better consumer protection, maybe we should have a very special crime, so here I am taking this opportunity to perhaps in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, I know that it is in the making of a novel or a new Penal Code so that we can see with them how a conversation and an inter-resor agreement could lead to better consumer protection, why am I particularly saying this? From Europe exactly the specific directive and especially a new strategy that strengthens that protection and constantly insists on exactly what it tells us? This tells us that as many violations as there are stronger protections, this is clearly still the protection and implementation and the real protection of the achievement, such protection is still a trap for frauds who offer different goods, much lower quality, different properties than they show or service. That's why I'd say it would be good to strengthen such a single protection. We have special offences, let's say, not to review living foods but then it applies only to meat and meat processing, and we also have special protection here on criminal law on inadequate treatment, so for such a criminal event, the beings of a criminal offence need therefore to have damaged the effects on health itself. This isn't just about that. It is that the purchased product did not contain such one feature. One of the common features of precisely modern democratic societies is precisely that weaker is the protection of the economically weak parties, so in 1988 the UN and the General Assembly adopted a famous resolution that is mentioned here and in the introduction of no. 39/248 and in the United States, even by relatively late 1972, such a law was passed, and in Europe, in addition to 1973, signatories of the Treaty of Rome passed the European Charter of Information on Consumer Protection with the Consumer Rights Programme. Effective consumer protection is also necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the market economy and this protection will also depend on the development of administrative bodies, on the development of institutions that can provide that protection. So, I read this quote from the resolution that this effective consumer protection is needed here I repeat for the functioning of the market economic relationship but I think that we must protect the consumer and that all national countries protect their consumers, primarily for the sake of themselves and for the interests of the state, because the cheated consumer in any form is being impoverished, and the poor and poor consumer in this or that form is again seeking support from the state. That's why good application of this law protects the state budget. As far as it seems now, because if you buy a product that is not of good quality, whether it's an electric product or someone else, one poor household that has to buy a new product after half a year, it's perhaps half a year's income for it. These people are in big trouble. It should therefore be pointed out that it is the citizens of civil life in our country, except for some special protection associations, especially women's rights, but this should be specifically mentioned by the Consumer Protection Associations. And I will mention the Association for the Protection of Consumers from the City of Zadar who had a lot of problems when they were protected, put under the auspices of the cheated consumer and what problems they had. However, they were not given, they were not deceived even though some donations and what should come from the local budget were not always sufficiently arrived and in the right way or at the right time. However, the results that they are... were preventively affected by many others because those who dare to sell fake goods, counterfeits in one way or another, whether they are goods or services, are only afraid if you hit them in the pocket. So here I once again appeal that such a single protection that we haven't had any objections about here, but everyone's afraid of how it's going to work. We have high hopes of just what the inspection will be and what will be the inspectors of your ministry for the implementation of this law, and I don't think these are any less important things. If from the beginning of application goes well and sharply, it will be the best prevention, above all, and you later less work. But if, from the beginning, after the law comes into force, it goes lightly, so it's some kind of little scam, some kind of injury, then it'll be nothing. I will especially mention these services, where you yourself, in your own explanation, in the opening explanation of the bill, indicate how many people have problems with these communals. It is not clear to them how this is read at no cost, and there are often people who are powerless. There needs to be done on one..., about it seems to me we were talking to our colleague Peja Grbin when he was opening up on behalf of the club, therefore it is also a kind of fraud. If such a reckoning is unclear, then how can you control it at all? I'll tell you an example of my neighbor. Now I'm going to bring in on this one bizarre example, which she got, is the apartment closed, no one in it is, and the war is 250 kuna a month. [[Intruder Stazic: Bring the end.]] I mean, until the penalty measures are taken for fraud and illegal charge, it won't be any of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75352	Thank you. Let's go to the replicas. First honorary colleague Nada Murganic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75353	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Anticevic, I can really agree with everything in your debate. By listening to this debate and replicas during the day, I can conclude and express my satisfaction with the ferocity with which you defend consumers and their rights and knowledge that you express. What we have generally agreed in these discussions is that we need a good law and that we need to protect consumers, given that they are more powerful, i.e. providers and services and sellers of goods in a weaker position. The only thing I have a feeling about is if I can sublime it, the difference in our debate is whether this law should be passed by an urgent procedure or if it could be another reading for the reasons that we are all together, and you, in part in your debate, expressed the need for certain things to be more precise, or more accurate, in order not to so-called. The well-known gaps in the law enabled those who had the opportunity to engage also lawyers, legal experts, so that they would not again be consumers in some disputes and complaints, those who would get away with, to put it this way, a shorter end. The law really needs to be shaken, there are some other articles that I, as a person who is not a legal profession, see, and I think that if it only went to the investment of the amendment, there would be one forest of amendments, I think that you and all of us could advocate that we have another reading together, therefore more time to apply it because the application is listed to start with 01.01.2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75354	The replica matches, respected Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75355	I think that, in addition to this proposal, which is a bill in its own, this is, in fact, a final proposal, that we have, in fact, been opposed not to certain provisions but simply to require the enhanced action of the institutions themselves and those in charge of law enforcement. I'll do it again, why do some others behave differently with us? Not because they have greater consciousness, but because they are aware that they will be punished in their country, and here they may not, and I think that's exactly what they should be surprised at, and this one repression from the beginning. So, when the state wants it to, it can do it, and it will be much later then easier than to push it, so the law has come into force and since then that provision of it is worth it. But it would be good to say, and I'm going to say it again to strengthen and criminal protection, and there we have special measures so that, for example, the one who sells honey, and puts in it who knows what kind of syrup or other harmful and still puts some kind of substance that is harmful to health, so in such a single conviction it should be made public so that everyone knows in advance that it's the manufacturer who produced fake honey, who produced fake spices or fake tea by putting in meaningless certain substances or grasses that have no effect unlike what he's published. It will be the right then I think that this law alone cannot, nor is it the domain of the inspector himself, that in such a way, we would get one complementary protection and I think more with consumer rights would be a joke and that those rights of the young would no longer be a weak right.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75356	The second replica of the respected Ada Damian.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75357	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues, Ingrid, fully agree with your debate, and you mentioned for better consumer protection I would say that when advertising products that are found to be of poor quality, questionable quality or, as my colleague Grubisic mentioned today, miraculous products that simply and in law are banned from advertising such products with one enhanced supervision, it means that no advertising of such products is allowed at all to protect consumers and health and everything that follows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75358	The replica matches Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75359	Well, I think you're quite right. Unlike America, which can sell anything, but there is simply the first time that consumer protection needs have arisen. I think the best protection for consumers is to perform in prevention, that we do not have goods that are corrupt at all, or that have no properties as it stands in the declaration. So that no such services or substances of false service come, this one heals and thus it is a pure fraud. Please, it's in the former system, and let's not be ashamed of it, it was a dangerous act because no one is taking care of themselves and their citizens where one individual and one group often screws them up. Thus, in such miraculous drugs on some miraculous potions, it should be prohibited or it should be known to have no such effect. It is a consumer fraud and it should be contained at the very beginning. I think we have the mechanisms to do it, but I'm going to do it again and I'm going to make sure that the man doesn't have an accident that he already paid that he has to prove that he paid after a few years. So we have cases where FINA has just received this service of carrying out money claims that those with already outdated claims have come forward. Among them were those who provided public services, it is unforgivable. And they never mess with their own account, but always on someone else's side.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75360	Third replica, respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75361	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, Ingrid Antičević, you have been in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia for a long time, I will remind you of the case when Mr. former Agriculture Minister Cobankovic claimed that meat imported from Brazil was beef for 40 years in deep freezing, liquid nitrogen or somehow called that asset and who claimed that beef was healthy. Its physical and organoleptic properties were not spoken of but convinced the public that it was healthy and that there was no danger of using that meat we imported from Brazil. Along the way, be it said that one of our farmers would bring a live pig from Vrbanja, Strošinac, Drenovac, etc. in the east of Croatia, for example in Rijeka at the market then he had to get a driving licence from veterinary inspections of Vukovar-Srijem County, Brod-Posaviska, Sisak-Moslavina, Zagreb, Karlovska and Primorje-Gorski of all these veterinary inspections had to, as if we were a feudal society so every county had a feudal property that gives a driving licence as 6 states to drive its pigs. Furthermore, the other day I was filling out an energy questionnaire for my house's energy certificate and there they asked me what water consumption was, what was the cost of cubic meter water. I didn't know how to fill that questionnaire because there are 6 items in the water bill Slavonski Brod, and I don't know what the real price of water cubicity is in Slavonski Brod, but only that total amount is divided by the number of cubic metres of water and then say that's the price of cubic meters of water. Obviously it is necessary to be a Master of Economy or Rights in order to understand this calculation and calculation of these municipal public fees at all. you have also said these possibilities of fraud that threaten this way of expressing prices and gas and professions and water. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75362	Comrade Grubisic, can you hear me? Time's up The replica matches Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. [[Intruder Grubisic: I hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75363	...we're hearing less because we're going into this topic and I really believe that we're all having an honest discussion because there's no one to believe until they're convinced of it, how many times we've been cheated and a lot more times we're sure we're not even aware of it. People would be amazed at what you said, so I'm going to add something to you about Cobankovic and that meat, and I remember it well, even though the unconscious examination of meat is a particularly criminal offense. I remember that time when that bear affair came out. Honey was sold, taste the same, look the same, and the analysis showed that there was no percentage of honey in that honey, and we asked that such a producer or one who sold to God such honey be made public. We never got an answer, and that's why I'm saying it's a public disgrace, if I can be on a public pole that he didn't pay, why don't he who cheated on those people to buy a fake product like that? I simply had little preparation for this debate that I could not understand that there are already such methods that develop special enzymes where meat or chicken or Juneine are combined to be sold as veal or ham, but depends on what, where you simply cannot discover with a naked eye that it is not compact meat but is simply glued and emulsified in such a way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75364	We're continuing an individual debate. Dear colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75365	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. Here we have heard a lot from the debate so far about consumer protection, about how important this is also in the European Union in all the countries that are members of the European Union, but also beyond, so both in the US and in some other countries. I still want to start my debate first of all with the fact that this is an extremely important topic, that this is a topic that matters to states that we often choose as models. I will remind again that the European Union has a special Commissioner for Consumer Protection, and that the Federal Republic of Germany, which we call extremely often in this very home, is also what they call... or the Minister for Consumer Protection. So that is already enough proof of how important this is for the modern market, that is, the modern state or modern legislator that we are trying to be. And I can agree in one part with my colleague, Rados, who said it was less important how it was exactly regulated, whether there was a special ministry, a special department or something, whether it belonged to the Ministry of Economy or not. They can agree, but only as long as consumer protection and consumer protection mechanisms are effective. Whether it's an agency or a department within a ministry that's going to work effectively, it doesn't matter that much right now. Any rise in consumer rights, improving consumer rights and regulating the relationship between traders and consumers is what needs to be welcomed for a number of reasons. The reasons are numerous. First of all, all of us sitting here are consumers in moments, and from this perspective we should also observe every consumer legislation. However, the reasons, as the deputy minister has already mentioned, and several colleagues and colleagues mentioned in the discussions, are actually dubious, and this is the alignment with the acquis of the European Union and the second is the second reason, i.e. the second reason is to improve the provisions that have proved to be missing, i.e. the introduction of new provisions. Namely, as I mentioned in some discussions before when we discussed regulation of market relations, the market is dynamic and constantly changing. First of all, the introduction of new technologies also opens new market relations, i.e. new ways of doing business. So that's before and mentioned, it's primarily the spread of Internet trade, but you have a whole series of other examples. So first of all, it's about distance sales and out of the sales area, so we've already been exposed. However, as far as our domestic market is concerned, it is somewhat smaller, but as far as the European Union's markets are concerned. Also, regulation of the contract between traders and consumers is also important, and I would single out one newspaper, which is the termination of the purchase contract 14 days from the sale without giving reason. I think this is extremely important because this is how it is protected primarily by the consumer. We can say that this will be a burden for retail sales, that it will be a burden for retailers, but I think that this is primarily consumer protection for one reason. Often, the trader leads you to buy something you might not buy, so there was already talk about it, counterpart Grubisic and some other colleagues discussed it. So this is as good as any other product or this is the same to you, but when you come home, when you read it, so if it's a drug guide or if it's another article, you realize that it's not really the case. But you've at least been brought here before so rarely when you can advertise goods. You can advertise it in terms of, at least so far, that it's damaged, that it doesn't comply with the declaration, but you couldn't advertise as a product you didn't want, so you couldn't change your mind. I point out above all that as a measure of consumer protection because of what we have not mentioned so far, and it is often that shopping as modern as it is said, i.e. buying sometimes grows into an obsession, i.e. it is registered as one of the disorders primarily psychological so that it is expressed in consumer societies, primarily in the West. However, this legislation protects the consumer and protects the trader. Why? because it regulates above all ways of action, sale, reduction and misdemeanour. Unfortunately, so far, we have witnessed many abuses, so that often sales and actions have been falsely presented, i.e. that the deliberate consumer is misinformed in order to lead him in some way to a final act, that is, when he comes to the store to buy something that may not have been under the conditions that were advertised. The goods with error were often sold at a full price, meaning as goods which were not made by mistake, i.e. it was not clearly pointed out that the goods with error, etc., etc. This was primarily damaged by other merchants who wanted to do business according to the law, i.e. we created unfair competition, competition against which those who wanted to do business under the law could not fight. I would draw your attention to article 31 of the bill that explains, or prohibits, unfair business practice and then explains what is the same. I know that one legal proposal can't regulate everything, we can't define everything, that probably those who are a little more clever will come up with these definitions of unfair business practice, so it'll twist it. But certainly what I would like to point out is that it is the ministry's duty to monitor these trends on the market and to propose, in accordance with this, any amendments and additions to the legislation to us as well. So, after a while when we notice that some, that certain provisions are either not clear enough or being abused. Also, I would especially like to highlight Article 15. Article 15 is of great importance to me, as it says that the issue of a notice of arrival shall not be charged or charged. We have often witnessed from our own experience that this has not been the case so far. Moreover, companies engaged in public activity are obliged to inform consumers of the outstanding outstanding, unpaid pardon of debts. So, above all, the aim of this is to reduce the number of performances, i.e. violent charges, but also to give control to the consumer himself, so to regulate its obligations to these companies. I was a witness myself that you often get some kind of warning, and you don't know why, or how. Some account you forgot to pay, lost it or something, and your notice is charged. So, everything goes to the consumer's expense, not to the one who provides services. There are exceptions, of course, I wouldn't mention any company but here are some telecommunications companies who have also entered their accounts, so in the monthly account of the regular that comes to you, there's an item that's called, so if I'm not mistaken, I can't quote the exact outstanding debts on the day of the billing. I think it is an example of good practice and that others should be guided. It is also good to strengthen the role of local self-government units in consumer protection because I think that lowering consumer protection to a micro-level can only bring good ones. There were comments here that local self-government units would have to finance these associations, but they had already funded them more or less. So there were many projects and associations that had already dealt with it. In fact, it is only a commitment that each unit of local self-government must have such associations, i.e. the Consumer Protection Council, which we hope will then give better results in this particular segment. Let me get this straight. Higher level of protection, better functioning of the internal market. So, when we talk about protection, we also talk about the protection of both consumers and traders are the objectives of this law. I believe that this law will result precisely in greater legal certainty for both the consumer and the trader, and therefore I would ask colleagues and colleagues to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75366	Thank you. We have two replicas. First respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75367	Thank you very much. My colleague Hajdukovic, here today I am glad that we actually seem to have a consensus at this plenary session all unanimously so for the application of this law. About what you said and in the first sentence you mentioned European legislation you know how much noise was created when a horse was imported from Romania to the European Union, to the Netherlands, and under the company that it is lamb. This is what the media wrote for days about, it was a great investigation, it was also included in Interpol and who did not find everything to the importer and to find the manufacturer and to strictly, strictly punish. I don't know what those penalties are, but it seems to me that this is our legislation and the penalties prescribed here when I compare them to traffic tickets or somewhere else, for some banal traffic, belting, or what I know, they're even small. And it's just as Mrs. Anticevic Ingrid said it is necessary to react quickly and vigorously with a repressive apparatus, so criminal measures by collecting fines in the event of fraud. And when we talk about the fraud itself, then we see here, and in Zagreb, you can find goods that are brought in some way from the border areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina, they are sold here in Zagreb, and cheaply bought across the border. There's not much to talk about. There's an arrest or an introduction here and there, but there's not much to go on. I know this stuff from the Bosanski Brod, but I see it here in Ilica, Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75368	Replication response, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75369	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague and I agree that absolutely, and the problem with the food industry has already been identified by you and a few other colleagues. So it's not just the wrong declaration of goods, it's also the different chemicals and ways to store, prepare and place goods on the market. So I think today's media is making the public a little bit more sensitive to the fact that we're getting more and more careful about what we're eating. Of course, product declarations, the way they are sold, under which declarations are extremely important. But what I'm saying is that more and more citizens have less confidence in so-called. industrial food, i.e. that it is more and more avoided precisely because of such terrible scenes as you can see, which is that, therefore, all flesh is grinding, to be some grain mass which is then processed and sold under different declarations even though it is, for example, chicken. It can be sold under several categories. The goods, so-called. The goods from the corridor are also not practice, and unfortunately that's our reality. These are what the people would say to smugglers, buyers and the like who declare these goods to be original goods, and in fact goods are often wrong or counterfeited goods that they sell at the prices of the originals. So this is perhaps the most classic example of fraud that we've all probably been victims of at some point, and this should be improved by just inspection controls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75370	Another replica, respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75371	So, you're telling your colleague that you specifically agree with that provision of the law that allows and empowers the buyer to return the product without explanation within a certain period of time. I think that's good. You can return the goods outside after a year. They don't even look at that deadline in America anymore. It is often abused, but even if it does, sellers and manufacturers benefit from it because they are in contact with customers. However, it is quite clear and no one has any objection to traders propagating their product, but they have no right to deceive people. They have a whole strategy, except propaganda, they have a whole strategy to attract the buyer. We are, for example, from crime, from a class like that learn how surprised people would be that we are all, in fact, gullible. And that's not about someone being less educated and so on. Especially when it comes to some products, some miracle wrinkles products, for the removal of cellulite, for health. Then simply our desire is stronger than that one consciousness, especially when they swear to us that it is so, when they give us some false testimony from certain witnesses who used such a product. So when you see that, it's the biggest scam and the biggest lie. But for that, the state needs mechanisms to answer that. Because they don't charge the budget, they only produce damage and at the expense of those who are conscious, who don't have that much money to cheat people. Because with that kind of money, you can only cheat people, not make them. Because good quality, she always finds her buyer with less propaganda. Is it amazing that the lobster shell sells ugly? What kind of olive oil is half put in soy oil?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75372	Time. We're continuing an individual debate. It's my dear colleague Mirela Holly's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75373	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, at the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to say that I will support this proposal of the Consumer Protection Act, although I consider this proposal very little of the relevant things to improve, and it puts much greater emphasis on harmonising with European legislation. The primary objective of this proposal should be effective and in practice well implements consumer protection to ensure, above all, the proper functioning of the market economy. And articles relating to newspapers in the proposal for a law on seasonal reductions are still not the main objective to be achieved. The planning of seasonal sale can in some ways endanger market freedom and can also be affected by the business policy of traders. Consumer protection depends primarily on good administrative infrastructure which is quality market surveillance and ensures the implementation of the law in absolutely all areas. In accordance with this good innovation, I consider strengthening the position of responsibility for local self-governments which have received precise obligations in the area of consumer protection, although this may be marginalised because they no longer have the obligation to be advisory in the bodies deciding on consumer rights, as is apparent in Article 129. On the other hand, such a law amends some of the relationships that are governed by other laws as general regulations. Since the Consumer Protection Act regulates the specificities of a particular number of mandatory legal relations between consumers and traders, it is primarily about the relationship between this law and the Law on Mandatory Relations. The consumer protection law is a special law, so its provisions should be applied primarily, and Article 4 which deals with this relationship is not legally justified or clearly stated hierarchy of those regulations, and such indication that there is a possibility of the opposite of one regulation with another leads to legal uncertainty which should not be easily understood in a well regulated state. Other specific laws, although in line with European directives, do not necessarily have to be in the role of protecting the rights of the interest of individuals, so, by default, this is consistent with the characteristic characteristics of all modern, democratic states, which is the protection of weaker economic parties in business transactions on the market. This is best seen in the example of public services referred to in Article 24 where public services cannot be charged under the new law and accounts and warnings, but in the draft new law or the new law, there is a provision that it is possible to act differently in the event that this is settled by a special law in line with the EU acquis. If this is specifically reflected through the energy sector, the consumer can very experiencedly feel this problem because it could be charged with both the bill and the reminder, although it stands in a special law regulating a particular public service market, which is of course electricity, gas and heat. And for this reason, this bill would have to remove such doubts that have been going on for years. I'd still like to make sure that this law is definitely about potentially good movement. We'll see from the very implementation of this law in practice. But we should bear in mind that the consumer satisfaction index at EU level puts Croatia in 26th place, which is not a very good rating. And finally, I would like to warn you of a situation that is affecting all of us and concerning the implementation of the Waste Management Act where waste disposal by volume and volume has been imposed for years. Such a provision has been made in accordance with the directives in the field of waste management but such changes have been initiated with consumer protection, and unfortunately, the situation is that in most local self-government units, even today, we do not have such a collection in practice. And then the question arises here today we have talked very much about traders and the relationship between traders and consumers. We have not touched so much the relationship between us living in households, and we are all bonds of payment and municipal waste disposal service which largely violates our rights since we do not pay this service according to the amount of service we are creating and therefore raises the question of how public authorities or units of local self-government can, and also the state as a whole, responds because they have not provided citizens with this law to live in practice for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75374	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. The first application is from a respected colleague, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75375	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, you said you were pleased to see the commitment of the local self-government unit increased. It is interesting how often we strengthen the obligations of local self-government units here but we do not strengthen the fiscal potential of the local self-government unit that should do so. It's just kind of a very, very interesting question that happens here often. Where local self-government revenues are, if local self-government needs to implement certain consumer protection programmes that will pay VAT, then local self-government does not get one part of that VAT revenue so that it can do so. I'd like that very much. And this second part of which you spoke about municipal services, it is actually very important and important because that service is therefore used by all consumers wanted, not wanted. So there's a whole series of legal provisions, regulations, regulations that I've already talked about that binders and citizens as well as communal societies to do certain things. It's a very interesting story about waste disposal and billing by volume. What's that amount? How's that gonna work out? In what way? Is it important for waste to be driven away so that citizens pay for it or it's important that we create some kind of consumer protection quasi and eventually stay in the woods and who knows where everything is. So there must be one symbiosis, so to speak, certain under quotes of coercion and obligations of citizens and then charges by quantity.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75376	The replica matches the esteemed Mirel Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75377	Dear colleague, the fact is that Croatia needs financial decentralisation but financial decentralisation involves certain rights and certain obligations. Otherwise, we had the opportunity to see in previous practice that when and when financial decentralisation was carried out in some segments that it did not also reflect on improving the service and it was supposed to be like subsidiarity, so if it comes from a lower level it will also be a higher quality of a certain service. I am absolutely in favour of carrying out financial decentralisation and that these funds are being placed towards local self-government units in order for the quality of services to be better. However, it also implies that these funds are spent on purpose rather than being spent on how anyone likes them. And I absolutely don't agree with you about the export of waste because there are very elaborate and not so complicated methods on which the export of waste can be charged by volume and volume, and that is through the storage system of a certain volume of bag according to the quantity, by buying a certain volume of bag and even in Čakovec that has a very well-ordered system of cans, chipped waste cans because exactly citizens know what amount of waste they create and how much they pay on the basis of it. Of course, there should always be a certain part of the price relating to the cold drive because municipal enterprises must serve a certain part of the city regardless of whether waste was created there or not, but that is, of course, the matter to be worked out by the Communal Waste Regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75378	The second line will be presented by Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75379	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Holly, you mentioned that this law, in fact, by seasonal regulation, means seasonal sales of discounts can penetrate traders' policies, so above all business policies of traders. That's where I can agree with you in that part where we have no abuse. Unfortunately, the legislator always goes bona fide, but this bona fide is often in good faith, and in that good faith, it is often abused, and unfortunately, it is important for me to prescribe these things just to set up some common rules for the competition that everyone else can build their business policy. If we were living in a better and more orderly way, so I wouldn’t even be now, this may be a little overqualified by a more moral society, perhaps we shouldn’t prescribe it because in many Western societies we don’t need to prescribe everything. We're not at that level yet, unfortunately. And I'd just like to supplement what you may not have mentioned and I still think it's extremely important that this provision is precisely that the consumer has the right to return the product after 14 days. This is what we force the trader not to sell the goods but to really send a satisfied buyer home, means to sell him what the buyer really wants and not to sell him often what it's like to just sell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75380	And this replica corresponds to the esteemed Mirel Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75381	Dear colleague, I don't think the state can treat its citizens as potential criminals. I think abuses are possible by traders, but they are also possible by consumers. All those who have had opportunities to work in stores are aware that not all customers are very well-intentioned, that there are different troublemakers. Unfortunately, in most cases, however, the ratio of power is such that consumers are more deprived than consumers are cut off. I think the role of the state is to ensure a good mechanism of control and supervision and implementation of that law, but not to serve and priorities with methods that will define that someone is inclined to act criminally. That's not a good message.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75382	Third and last replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75383	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Holly, you've been talking about seasonal reductions and the fact that this kind of arrangement can legally harm the competition. However, I must say that this legislation sets out an equal legal obligation for all, therefore, the same conditions for all those who appear on the market. Therefore, the seasonal downturn is for any trader and producer, or trader. There is therefore no deviation as far as there are no machinations or manipulations, but this already falls within the sphere of crime. Second, what was said about strengthening the obligation of local self-government in the area of consumer protection. Yes, it is a new obligation of the local self-government unit, but you are responding to Mr. Hrg's replica, and Priory expressed doubts about spending money and that possibly that money that would be for consumer protection might have been misdirected or misused, what you said yourself, should not be doubted in advance, in fact you yourself have expressed doubts about it. The third thing I wanted to notice in your presentation, you said that the work of the associations in Article 129 was written, that the associations were marginalized, and when we read all these 6 points in Article 129, then I don't see what other associations should do to avoid being marginalized. Therefore, the activities of the Consumer Protection Association are well defined in Article 129. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75384	And this replica fits, Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75385	Dear fellow, I don't think they have all the stores or all the merchants of the same season, so then they're not exactly the conditions that they can have seasonal reductions according to this principle that suits everyone completely. I think you totally misunderstood me when I was talking about financial decentralisation, I just wanted to warn you that the picture is never black white and that a certain financial decentralisation implies both rights and obligations in terms of meeting certain services and that our goal is always to go towards improving the quality of services, regardless of whether it is at the level of the unit of regional self-government, at the level of the unit of local self-government or at central state level. So, I didn't speak at all about consumer rights here, but I was talking about that financial decentralisation means the balance between rights and obligations, and that such a principle should be implemented regardless of the level of the government's obligation and the law. And yes, and it is not entirely true that in this way associations have not lost some of their jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75386	The individual debate will now be presented by a respected colleague, Drazenko Pandek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75387	Here, thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Honored representatives of the ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the area of consumer protection is an extremely important matter to which special attention should certainly be given. Of course, as already pointed out in the debate, it is primarily because consumers are generally weaker... party to... a relationship which on the other hand stands a trader. However, as a rule, it should always be the customer who has to use caution and must be the one who is kept, however, with the development of trade and cumulation and commercial experience and method, the average person who even invests a normal average caution and who does not act lightly, can easily go very badly in this contractual relationship. This law transposes the Croatian legislation of the European Directive and I would also say that it further strengthens the consumer's position in this contractual relationship, so it further protects the consumer. It primarily introduces some clear rules and order in the problem of seasonal declines where there has been quite chaos so far. In principle, it should be pointed out that you will no longer be allowed to initiate the payment procedure, so those claims which the consumer contests, so if someone gives you an account for which you have already paid, you could pay again so far and then complain or therefore enter into the procedure. It certainly wasn't a fair solution and here are the welcome changes in this regard. Since it is extremely important that consumers should be better informed about their rights, as far as possible, because they cannot clearly exercise their rights if they do not know they have them, it is also necessary to welcome this draft law to the novelty, so that units of local self-government are in place to carry out specific consumer advice in their field. Here, with these positive shifts for the better, I would take the opportunity to highlight some of my proposals for my opinion, perhaps the additional improvements that have contributed to the purpose of the law, therefore to better consumer protection. Unfortunately, I would... I would say unfortunately, the law goes into two readings, but I think that perhaps in future times, surely the ministries are already thinking about it, should follow further improvements in this text because this is a matter in development, a matter which must therefore adapt to emerging situations, the emerging situations in this area are constant. Article 6(2) provides that the product information must be clear, visible, legible and written in the Croatian language and Latin letter. It was already here in the debate that it was often not so, and then inspections due to the different interpretations of perhaps these provisions do not act as they should. I would recommend considering a little detailing this provision. There were suggestions to be, for example, prescribes that this text must be specified by a font e.g. Here's font 9 I think it'd be good. And I would especially point out this warning or information about the product in Croatian should be separated from data in other languages because it is sometimes very difficult to find Croatian in the whole forest of these texts and texts. Article 11 provides for a ban on the provision of personal data to the consumer and any third party without prior consumer consent under this Data Protection Act. This is about giving a third person, but caution is done I would add a ban here, so not only giving but also baning the use of consumer personal data without prior consent. It is prescribed in Article 13 that, if the trader requests or explicitly conditions the purchase of a product, the payment of a given advance shall be due to that amount of advances to pay that interest a certain interest at the interest rate which has been overlooked for the savings deposits carried out at three months to the date of delivery. As such contracts existed prior to the entry into force of the law, it could possibly be interpreted that these provisions do not apply to such contracts. I would therefore propose to prescribe that this provision applies to contracts concluded before the entry into force of the law. I think it's just that it represents protection of the weaker parties and that it justifies even a certain retroactivity. With regard to paragraph 2, I would have a certain point of view to a solution which regulates that in the case of a trader, the product is not liable to return the advance to the consumer and then pay the interest on that interest which is valid for the savings stakes carried out. By this provision, I would say to derivate the provisions on tight interest and put in a certain way a trader in a more favourable position than a consumer. For example. If we have some very valuable goods for which the advance is paid and simply a trader doesn't deliver it for months, perhaps longer and then ultimately only necessarily give an advance on that very small interest. I would suggest, however, that this problem is regulated in a way that the trader is more than 7 days late from the day when the delay is due to be calculated and paid for the legal tightened interest. In addition, Article 35 sets out... which represent a safeguarding business practice. The list is exhausted, but I seem to be missing another example of such practice. It's a case of creating an impression of false product reduction. It has been a common situation that we know from the practice that traders have once highlighted one price per product, e.g. 100 kuna and then the ads big now came down but the price remained the same 100 kuna, and they pointed out earlier it was worth 150 kuna. It seems to me that this problem is not here, correct me if I am wrong for the representatives of the ministry that this problem has not been properly solved and that we do not have gossiping countermeasures for this because we see from practice and so far we have the Consumer Protection Act and this practice has been common. I think this should be said. So that it doesn't turn out that I'm just holding a consumer's side right now, I might point out maybe Article 43, where a trader might be put in an unfairly poor position. It therefore determines that in a particular case, it is obliged to bear the cost of art if the product is not deficient within 6 months of the date of the risk to the consumer. It seems to me that there would be a fairer solution that he would have to pay the cost of the art advance, and the art of it would ultimately be borne by the one who was wrong when he filed the lawsuit. Even if a harmful event occurred after the transition of risks to the consumer, it must bear the cost of skill which does not seem fair or logical to me. On this issue, I would like to point out another topic that often calls for attention in the media. This is the fact that certain products do not have the same quality, depending on which market they are placed, although they bear the same name and the same packaging of the product. This is often the case especially with laundry detergents and other products. So a certain brand of products, thanks to its usual quality, often gives consumers the impression that they buy a quality product. Today consumers are often informed via the Internet on blogs about the quality of products and it is justified to expect that they can be deceived when they read this product watch this product brand this packaging is a great product and they actually get a product of other quality. Therefore, it is justified to worry that consumers can in this way be deceived and I believe that in such cases it should be clearly indicated in the packaging that the product does not have the same composition as the product of the same name and packaging sold on other markets and that it should be indicated in the words on which the product is sold to the markets and in which the product of the same name and packaging is marketed but of different quality. Furthermore, in Article 5, the trader is designated as any person who makes a legal deal, therefore both a legal and a natural person. Now it leads me astray from the provisions concerning the infringement provisions where it is prescribed that for certain violations the penalties are paid by the trader legal person. This would mean, if I were to interpret it correctly, that a craftsman would not pay for a breach in the insurance business practice against the consumer, so I do not understand the logic that would make the craftsman, for example. So a trader who is a natural person and not a legal person would be released from paying such a penalty. Finally, I would say that this law represents progress in relation to the existing law and should be supported but it should be stressed that this substance is constantly developing and new practices are emerging that need to be respected and therefore an active adaptation still needs to be made to this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75388	Thank you. We have two replicas. First of all, the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75389	Thank you very much. Comrade Pandek, I don't know why the entire Kukuriku furniture of the coalition so emphasizes that it's very good that it's now a duty for local self-government units to conduct consumer counseling. Why do you think that local self-government has not conducted consumer counseling and education, at least in that part of the services they provide over, let's say through municipal societies. Do you think local self-government will be able to organise, at no cost, consumer advice from the domain of trade, consumer protection from traders, or will need to secure some money, bring in professionals who will do so. There's always a question of some unintended spending, I don't know how, all local self-government is wrong, and I'm saying it can't be generalized. So local self-government and now they're taking care of it, taking care of the citizens, just maybe some of the local self-government didn't do it. So at this point, it might be best to start a new agency, some state agency that will know how to advise consumers because local self-government won't be able to do it well anyway. Well, I guess people here at some agency in Zagreb know better than local self-government. Give us the money, and we at the local level will be able to arrange it very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75390	The replica matches Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75391	Thank you. My dear colleague, of course I didn't claim that all the local administrations didn't do it but some of them didn't, they didn't. Well, I can speak from my perspective, I'm here from Zagreb, now whether I missed or not, mostly I haven't seen such advice on the services of the city's gas station or city water pipeline or city cleanliness, or on other topics. Since I am somewhat aware of the city administration, I think it will be able to organise and carry out such consultations without any additional costs, but this is where it opens again when you talk about whether some local administrations are capable of doing so, the question of the sense of the existence of a administration that may not seem to me even these rather complex jobs are being carried out. Then the question arises why these local self-governments do not connect with other local self-government units so that they can carry out such tasks.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75392	The second line is Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75393	Thank you very much. Comrade Pandek, local self-government can sometimes be very difficult to explain to citizens the public services they provide through their businesses to citizens. So, when you read and get electricity tickets, then gas, heat energy, public supply and public discharge, municipal waste, or let's now transport passengers in public transport it's clear, sometimes it's very difficult and it needs to be very, very immersed, and even some education that I don't say academically to have to understand what it all says there. So, the local self-government and the state agency, as asked by Mr. Hrg, would be a very interesting debate, perhaps we can come to that one day. But what I wanted when you were talking about Article 43(6) is not clear to me what you said, so I hope you will respond to the reply. So if the lack of product occurs after the expiry of the deadline referred to in paragraph 5 of this Article, but not later than 24 months after the date of the risk changeover to the consumer, the cost of skill shall be borne by the consumer or the trader, and not only by the trader as you have said, depending on the outcome of the skill. I mean, I don't know what's going on here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75394	The replica matches Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75395	At the very first part of your replica, I would say that the very intensity of this law is that now units of local self-government and in these counsellings can explain to people who use public utility services all the details of both the price and the delivery method, it pays off, so everything that bothers them seems to me to be exactly the intensity of this law to help in this field. As regards this Article 43, I was therefore referring to the first part of the article, which states that the cost of skill is borne by the trader if the lack of the product appears within 6 months of the day of the risk transition to the consumer. So we have one six-month deadline, and this 24-month deadline, as far as I understand from the law, is the second deadline. So if he shows up within six months, then the trader carries the art. At least here's what I realized, unless I misread the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75396	We're continuing an individual debate. Boro Grubisic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75397	Thank you very much. First of all, I didn't make it because Vice-President of the Parliament interrupted me, saying that the HDSB club will be for this legislative proposal, so it will raise its hand by, with a long way to establish consumer rights through all these examples that we have presented today, which will still appear in practice. Starting with that big noise, and we have the Noise Act, which strengthens advertising on TV when unlike regular programs, movies, or anything where there is a lot of tonality on our receivers, TV audiences, in order to highlight what the advertisement says. Furthermore, I will continue with examples that are very visible and where there is interesting practice, and on this law. We all know that some Western European or European companies from the European Union, including from the United States, produced cars for Southeast European countries that were different from those for Western Europe, or for the European Union for a lot of quality and to some of the elements to say luxury on those cars or, as they like to say, some of them in the West were more fueled cars. Let me put it this way, I don't know how to put it in our language. When we talk about fraud, you have an example of a publishing house, a publishing office, whatever year you want, and another two months, it's a big-promised game, and in that year or 14 months, you have one 20 memos and a commitment that the one who started the game has to fulfill in order to get to a final. In the end, there's really no notice about who this winner is. If I have to say the name of that publishing house, I can, and you all know it. There is also a bookstore in Zagreb, etc. and not just in Zagreb. That's amazing. In doing so, they tell you if you want to continue to buy a little book that is not relatively expensive, so a man in the hope of entering a finale or a finale buys that book that serves nothing, or God knows what's wrong. And not just that. Furthermore, when you pay one bonus for any of this telecommunications houses and you already have five, six, I don't know how many teleopers. The tele yes, the operator then you get when you pay a bon right after that you get a message if you deposit today, today is the 19th St. Joseph, that's right. Then he says by 29 you have to spend that money you paid. Otherwise, your number will be shut down or you won't have the right to use the rest of the money you've paid. That's not so far, it wasn't until about half a year ago. They've been texting you for two more days, and you've got five more days, four more days, three more days, so your deadline's up. But if you don't have the need to phone and spend or send messages or I don't know any other services, then you have to hurry up to shoot it so your money doesn't fail. What's the way these telephony operators work? They're forcing you to buy a bon again in 10 days and spend it or not spending it so you don't get killed as a threat. Is that a scam? Is this a way of working that is not worthy of this state, or of the tele operator, or of the citizens of this country that they cheat on and of one aggressive one, and I don't know what kind of performance they're actually providing themselves with profits, payments, etc. And they clearly share bonuses. See what the salaries of the executives are with the calf operator, about 200 thousand kuna is the monthly salary of one of them. We all know him, 200 thousand kuna. Yes, yes, 200,000 kuna. Yes exactly Mrs. twilight you said well, it's a real twilight in our salaries. Yeah, yeah. He's got ten times as much pay as you. Therefore, the work for the ministry that you represent, the work for an inspection that needs to be well taken into account, the fines that should follow in the event of the identification of such frauds and such a way of working should be drastically greater, should be reacted quickly and effectively in order for those who dare to do it again or not again, to be taught by others and school. Otherwise, this law is not going to be a dead letter on paper, but it's not going to get the results we all expect from this law today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75398	Thank you. We have one injury reported to the Rules of Procedure, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75399	I'm sorry, buddy, but I really have to react, and I believe you didn't do it on purpose. But even when it's done, we're gonna have to react on purpose. In fact, article 238, because you're kind of, I know you didn't do it, I'm convinced on purpose but you've been disdaining your colleague. We mustn't play here and age the illusions with names, with our own names and last names. ... Please. [[/Intruder Grubisic, you can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75400	We're continuing an individual debate. It's all yours, dear Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75401	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy with an associate. We've heard a lot today, talking about the Consumer Protection Act, important law. In modern times, various areas of human activity have been manifested that require special access to the country, which requires regulation. One such area is certainly consumer protection. The development of relations in trade in goods and services has for centuries developed the possibility of and somewhere techniques, i.e. the skills of fraud, which is the defence of the same. Consumer protection aims to protect the health, safety and economic interests of consumers who promote consumer rights to information, education, organisation with a view to preserving common interests. Consumer protection is a legal area dealing with the protection of citizens' fundamental rights, the role of consumers in a wide range of businesses in which they supply products and services on the market. Consumer rights are regulated by legal provisions through the regulation of fair competition. The laws are designed to protect consumers from direct and aggressive business practices and also protect against the unfair competition of those companies that do fair business towards consumers. The right to protect consumers consists of civil and legal and public-legal elements. Thus, the Croatian Consumer Protection Act contains a number of provisions governing the so-called consumer contracts and judicial litigation which may be conducted in connection with such contracts, which falls within the so-called A civil-legal system to regulate social relations. The same law also contains no number of provisions on the competencies of inspection services, various violations and transactions of the body of the state administration which belongs to the so-called so-called State Administration. A public-law system to regulate social relations. I would try to bring my debate closer to those who are directly interested, citizens, this bill that regulates, in its 149 points, the area most directly concerned. In fact, the relationship between the sellers of goods and services and consumers is increasingly complex each day and the regulation of these relationships is increasingly complicated and demanding. And ask for special attention from the state. I believe that is why this law is one of those who will continue to experience frequent changes and additions. Today, among other things, consumer protection is becoming more and more human rights. With this bill, we are in line with EU directives on consumer protection. And in a special way, consumer rights are regulated. I'll read the elements of the first article of the bill. This is the right to protect the economic interests of consumers, the right to protect against the dangers of life, health and property, the right to consumer legal protection, the right to inform and educate consumers, the right to association of consumers in order to protect their interests and the right to represent consumers and the participation of consumers in the work of bodies that address issues of their interest. Consumer protection is carried out through the activity of the inspection and, more importantly, through lawsuits, which can be filed by any consumer for a consumer contract in which he is a party or through the so-called so-called consumer contract. collective lawsuits. Article 105 of the Law provides for the permanent jurisdiction of the Court of Honor of the HGK as a place where the standards of fair representation in economic business should be represented. The Consumer Protection Act, in line with the EU acquis, is contained in various directives paying particular attention to the so-called the unfair contractual provisions formulated by the trader, by typical contracts or by any other means. The contractual provision which has not been negotiated individually is considered unfair if, contrary to the principle of awareness and honesty, it causes a significant imbalance in the rights and obligations of the parties to the consumer's harm. As examples of possible unfair provisions, the law lists 19 provisions, and let me read just some. Provision concerning the exclusion of debt by the trader according to the consumer, a provision providing that the trader contains... by the consumer when the consumer decides not to conclude or fulfil the contract until the same right is provided for by the consumer in the event that the trader does not wish to conclude it or does not fulfil the contract, a provision which obliges the consumer to pay compensation for damages due to non-fulfilment which is significantly greater than the actual damage, a provision authorising the trader to terminate the contract on the basis of its... assessment until the same right is provided for by the consumer, a provision authorising the trader to retain the pay for services which he has not yet performed and many others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The result of the dishonesty of a particular contractual provision is its integrity if the contractual provision is so important that the contract cannot survive without it. The whole contract is worthless. The Consumer Protection Act prohibits so-called a safeguarding and aggressive business practice which is collectively referred to as unfair business practice. We are talking about misleading business practice when the trader gives disinformation through misleading actions, misleading failures to the characteristics of his product or services which can cause the consumer to make a decision that would otherwise not have been made. For example, if consumers fail to inform about the significant cost of maintenance of products or important risks to which consumers are exposed due to the use of products and services. That the practice of traders is misleading according to the circumstances of the case, and in the article of the law is given a long list of actions and failures considered as misleading in any case. We are talking about aggressive business practice when a trader uses harassment, coercion, including physical force or threat, and has a significant impact on or is likely to reduce the freedom of choice or conduct of the average consumer in relation to the product, thereby bringing him or her to or is likely to lead him to make a decision on a business he would otherwise not have made. Whether business practice is aggressive is assessed depending on the circumstances of the case. Article 38 of the Law sets out a list of activities that are always considered aggressive business practices. The Consumer Protection Act as the main asset of protection against unfair business practices also provides for a claim for the protection of consumer collective interests. Some consumers may also address the court where they should prove that the actions and failures which the Consumer Protection Act calls unfair business practices have resulted in the positive consequences provided for by the Law on Mandatory Relations are the result of which they could require, for example, the termination of the contract, the repair of the goods sold or the compensation of damages. Such a form of judicial protection will essentially have little to do with consumer rights as a separate branch of law. Consumer protection is governed by a number of other laws. I'll just list some. It is the Law on Mandatory Relations, the Food Information Act, the Consumer Credit Act, the protection of consumer collective interests. Finally, this law is necessary in regulating the relationship between the sellers of goods and consumer services. In its content, it promotes and promotes consumer relations and creates consumer protection in all modern relationships. The biggest problem, in my opinion, is the lack of information in Croatia about all areas and articles that protect and place both consumers and customers of goods and services through this law as consumers. It should invite everyone, just anyone who is involved in consumer protection to organise as widely as possible, I would say capillary education related to consumer protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75402	Thank you. The replica was answered by the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75403	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, you spoke of consumer relations and service providers. You also talked about unfair provisions, possible claims by consumers. I'd say we should talk about consumer obligations. Therefore, here it should really be seen to separate a part of the obligations of the consumer or service provider in those services prescribed by law to the consumer. So again we're talking about this part of public services provided by municipal societies. Therefore, the consumer is obliged to clean the chimney, the consumer is obliged to attach to water supply and disposal. The consumer is obliged to take those services and he does not take those services. He doesn't take those favors. So you have a huge no-range situation, you have a situation that made tens of kilometers of water that consumers are obliged to tap in but do not tap in. You have a situation where the consumer does not let or will not allow to clean the chimney. Therefore, we did not allow the provision of services and here we are talking about the obligations of the service provider, so in law we should separate a buyer in a store that buys goods and a customer who buys a service prescribed by law as a consumer's obligation. In this respect, we should discuss consumer obligations as well as, of course, consumer rights that are not disputed. Absolutely should be made possible. But we must keep in mind consumer obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75404	Replication response, Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75405	Thank you very much. I think these issues are being addressed by some other laws and decisions of the decision on municipal order, on decisions by the service providers themselves, to the point of the most significant law, to write in the Law on Mandatory Relations.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75406	We'll hear another individual debate, dear colleague Gyurdzica Sumrak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75407	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here I don't think I'm going to use 10 minutes because in the morning in replicas a lot has been said and what I'd like to point out just one more time, and that's here I've got really connected to setting up those antennas of different telecomunicators one message where the lady writes that also on one corner of Zagreb and Golik's one firm called Combis I'm going to tell her she's set up such, one light antenna that lights their rooms at night while they're sleeping. This applies here and the Law on Light Contaminants equally. Why am I saying that? Because this Consumer Protection Act really implements more laws within itself and it is really a law that would have to cover everything, and as far as the protection of consumers themselves is concerned. We talked a lot about our consciousness as a consumer and what we can buy. No one can save us here, but we can save ourselves. Once we burn ourselves into something, we'll probably never make the same mistake again or buy a product or fall for some kind of phone advertising product or something like that. What I'm worried about and what I said in the morning are children, here our colleague Banic writes a doctoral paper on the impact of advertising on children, right through cartoons, and there must be said that in this way one should prevent it, I would say but living on children, and through the inside, I don't know how to show some cartoons, commercials that refer to children's toys, which, however, show characters from some cartoons and these ads are far away, my colleague told me louder and everything else. Now, the thing is that this should be regulated but what's good in the consumer code is that we have the quality of certain products, not only of food, I would always advocate that we protect our domestic, Croatian domestic product from our domestic producers but especially the clothing items in which here we thank God we can see very much in the media. What a great color these are, harmful in our clothes and, unfortunately, some declarations do not state it at all. So what's based on me should be that, that's consumer awareness. I will continue because it is my opinion that all these consumer associations are good, that there are, that they are indeed in the service of consumer education, but I must also say that out of all that we have, I think that one Commissioner, the national consumer protection commissioner, would not be of any harm. However, then we should not have that task as a unit of local self-government to do so, but if we have one Commissioner as well as the EU has here, and we have a Commissioner, I said, and Germany also means some members have their own commissioner and I think Croatia deserves to have its own commissioner as a national one, and that's what a man can really turn to someone and that the state protects, so I have to say fraud, damage. And what I said before the inspection of the departments should absolutely do their job. I'm absolutely up for high sentences because unfortunately until they get wrapped up in their pockets they don't somehow get to anyone's head. Here I would really end up here, I think a lot of today has already been said about it and once again maybe it would be very good regardless of what P.Z.E. is. to go into two readings and have time to make some more arrangements.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75408	A respected Martina Banic applied for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75409	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues of the twilight when you mentioned me about the commercials, I'd just like to say for a moment that really the kids are really at risk when it comes to advertising. As you mentioned, I'm working on a piece of work on the subject and I can tell you that only on one weekend children in the morning hours on a television program can see more than 200 commercials. And these ads only apply to toys, toys that are tied to heroes who look at those cartoons or on the other side of the commercials are related to food but to food that applies to ice cream, snacks and anything that is not good for our children. So I'd like to say except that kids aren't protected enough to say that they're actually the biggest victims of these ads their parents are because they're ultimately the ones who pay for what their kids saw.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75410	The replica corresponds to the respected Djurdzica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75411	Thank you, colleague Banic, I hope that you will successfully complete your doctorate and that we may have what would be good in this House for the results of such research to be heard publicly. Yes, indeed, through children who are the most sensitive category, they are appealed to parents or most of the guardians of these children to ensure that you have told them well, from food, drink, and clothing. Unfortunately, such a society is a consumer’s very little work to build some other traits in children, which is that by doing its work, by making a pledge that it is important that I do not know how to read, to have friends and to play. This class really puts children in a situation where they have to have so-called. The fat hew they've known since kindergarten because if they didn't have it, then they're big, so I'd say one situation that's not very desirable for them because some other kids unfortunately make fun of them. And what's important is the message that all of our holidays, all of our birthdays and everything else should be celebrated in a special way with modesty in order to say no, it doesn't matter that expensive toys, expensive clothes and expensive perfumes to us adults don't matter a holiday table full of food if at the same time we don't think about someone who doesn't have a turkey or cake, and then we throw tons and tons of the same food, and children throw away toys because of course as many of these toys get together, they get it faster and they rip and they don't even play with it anymore. In addition, some are not even educational, and most of the production in China is scary, and I'm going to finish, and it's scary with all those paint additives from the harmful means that they're dangerous to the lives of children.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75412	Another replica of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75413	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues, here's exactly what you've been talking about, you've mentioned the experience of children primarily marketingly, I'd just extend it if they weren't children of the only victim, and what we've already talked about in the debates is very difficult to draw a line between legitimate propagation of a particular product and what you're crossing a line. Just the fact that psychologists are now involved in the design and strategy and advertising itself tells you a lot about how to go on purpose or to appeal to those basic feelings of people. So it appeals to beauty for physical appearance, sex, etc. So everything will be done to sell their product. And here, some of the provisions that say that any activity that the consumer would offer in order to behave in a way that would otherwise not behave are an example of bad business practice, that is to say, condemn it. Now we're going to have a very hard time underlining that line between what's so and what's legitimate propaganda.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75414	The replica corresponds to the respected Djurdzica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75415	Thank you very much, colleague. Yeah, we agree. What I was about to say was that no one else's exception to this experience. But see I'll tell you something when you were talking about beauty. Unfortunately, we've come to a situation in society that, for example, We women must not grow old, we must be forever young, forever active, we must not have wrinkles, we must not have 10, 20 pounds too many because we are absolutely more unacceptable as such in society. Everyone must be very young. And you men have to be young, you have to have the same hair colors you had when you were 20, you have to wear in suits that don't suit you at all, you probably don't want that, but you have to, you have to drive expensive cars to get those same young people to notice you and we're in trouble. And why is that? We're in trouble because we've ignored what's fundamental to us human and sensitive. We've forgotten all our values, and we've just gone somewhere in the middle of nowhere, I don't know where it's going to stop, but I believe there's going to be this one stop a big stop when a man imagines, and that usually happens when someone picks up a serious health problem, then realizes that everything is completely pointless, that we can be old, that we can be skinny, fat, with wrinkles, without but it's important that we're healthy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75416	This seems like a very nice ending for this debate. I thank Deputy Leveric, thank you all for your participation. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75417	Final bill of consumer protection, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 630. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like the deputy deputy minister of the economy, Allen Leveric, to plead. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75418	We accept them all. We accept everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75419	Thank you very much. The amendments proposed become an integral part of the final draft law. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the final draft of the law to declare who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? Thank you. What's the score? I find that most 80 votes in favour and 21 votes have been abstentioned by the Consumer Protection Act in the text, as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75420	We move on to: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 667. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the reports at the session. I ask if the proposal's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. Deputy Minister of Entrepreneurship and crafts, esteemed Drazen Pross, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75421	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. You have before you the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurship Infrastructure. The adoption of this law systematically and transparently defines the basic issues of land available to the Republic of Croatia for the construction or expansion of entrepreneurship zones, which will contribute to effective law enforcement, i.e. to enable an economically justified land donation owned by the Republic of Croatia for the construction or expansion of entrepreneurship zones. To date, the implementation of the Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure in this part has pointed to the need for amendments and additions in matters of defining the concept of extending existing entrepreneurship zones, as well as the setting of criteria that entrepreneurship zones or units of local and regional self-government should meet in order to make land available in the possession of the Republic of Croatia for the construction or expansion of the entrepreneurship zone. Allow me before a more detailed clarification a brief reminder of the Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure, which has been in force since 27 July 2013, which regulates the system of entrepreneurship infrastructure consisting of entrepreneurship zones and entrepreneurship support institutions, and the existence of such a regulated system is very important because entrepreneurship zones are also entrepreneurship support institutions for small economies and these projects of development and construction of entrepreneurship zones, as well as co-financing of business support institutions' activities. Therefore, the law was passed for the purpose of raising both the infrastructure quality and the quality of business support, and also the construction of a transparent and publicly available system of use of support for entrepreneurship infrastructure. Let us remind ourselves that the law regulates issues and concepts and species and categorization of entrepreneurship zones and entrepreneurship support institutions and what is very important, the establishment of a register of entrepreneurship infrastructure, so one systematised database in the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts. The criteria thus set out are also the preconditions which entrepreneurship zones and entrepreneurship support institutions should meet in order to receive support for the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure. Also one of the essential things is the creation of a system of support for infrastructure equipment of entrepreneurship zones, as well as the creation of a support system for entrepreneurship support institutions. Only one brief reminder that the support system for entrepreneurship zones comprises three types of support and infrastructure support, support for strengthening competitiveness and support for strengthening entrepreneurship competences, and for entrepreneurship support institutions of four types: to prepare projects, to strengthen capacity, to raise service quality and to strengthen entrepreneurship competences. Supports are intended for the entities of entrepreneurship infrastructure recorded in that unique register of entrepreneurship infrastructure, and the level and manner of approval is prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the annual programmes for the promotion of entrepreneurship and crafts as it is currently under way, the entrepreneurial impulse in 2014, and in the approval of support for what is important is assessed and assessed their impact on equal regional development, a uniform economic development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia, equal treatment and competition of all entities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and of course what is very important, economic justification and support. For entrepreneurship zones, therefore, this is in terms of the intensity achieved of the activation of the available area of the entrepreneurship zone, and for entrepreneurship support institutions in terms of this intensity of involving entrepreneurs in the activities of the entrepreneurship support institution and of course the number and quality of projects developed both national and European Union. Therefore, an important part of this law relates precisely to the establishment of a land-owned system for the construction and expansion of the entrepreneurial zone and the implementation of the law in this part so far has pointed to the need to amend and supplement the law in two issues. The first question to be addressed by these amendments is a clearer definition of the expansion of the existing entrepreneurial zone. Therefore, for the purpose of making land available or giving land owned by the Republic of Croatia for the construction of a new and expansion of the existing business zone, the current law states clearly that, under the notion of an expansion of the existing business zone, the land owned by the Republic of Croatia is also considered to be covered by the decision establishing an entrepreneurial zone. Units of local and regional self-government have set up a series of requirements for land donations, for the construction of a new or extension of the existing business zone, and since July of last year, the implementation of the applicable law has established the need for additional legal definition so that in the case of land available to the Republic of Croatia under the terms of enlargement of the existing business zone, land owned by the Republic of Croatia, which is covered by the decision establishing an entrepreneurship zone. Therefore, the land owned by the Republic of Croatia was not available in accordance with the provisions of the applicable law, i.e. Article 6(3), i.e. that land becomes available and intended for entrepreneurs to carry out entrepreneurship activities only in the event of a decision on the donation of land owned by the Republic of Croatia for the construction or expansion of the entrepreneurship zone. The second issue to be addressed by these amendments and additions is a more detailed setting of preconditions, i.e. criteria that entrepreneurship zones, i.e. units of local and regional self-government, should be met in order to make land owned by the Republic of Croatia for the construction, that is, the expansion of the entrepreneurship zone. The current implementation of the applicable law establishes the need to amend the provision of Article 24(3) relating to the percentage of the total amount of the activated available area of all entrepreneurship zones in the unit area of local, or regional self-government. In accordance with Article 24 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the conditions for the donation of land owned by the Republic of Croatia for the construction of a new, i.e. the extension of the existing entrepreneurship zone are defined. In view of the contrast observed in the current paragraphs two and three of Article 24 of this Article, paragraph 3 is hereby amended and it is lawfully defined that the donation is justified only where, within a 20 km radius of the location envisaged for the construction of a new entrepreneurship zone, there are no entrepreneurship zones whose total amount of the available area is less than or equal to 66% of the total available area of these entrepreneurship zones. Therefore, if we sum up items two and three of Article 24 for land donations owned by the Republic of Croatia, the ratio of the total area of the business zone activated and the total available area of the entrepreneurial zone shall be considered justified only where the total amount of the activated area of all entrepreneurship zones within the same unit of local and regional self-government that applied for the allocation of land is more than or equal to 66%, and where there are no other entrepreneurship zones within the same unit where the level of available area is less than or equal to 66% in a radius of 20 km from the location for the new entrepreneurship zone. Furthermore, these amendments and additions to this law are prescribed that, other than for the establishment, the construction of an entrepreneurial zone of particular economic interest, the donation of land owned by the Republic of Croatia, with the possible exemption of the previous two provisions, which were discussed in Article 24(2) and (3). Therefore, existing zones within the same unit of local, regional self-government are activated more than or equal to 66%, and in a 20 km radius there is no entrepreneurial zone that is activated less than or equal to 66%, so land donation is also possible for business zones that are authorised to co-finance from pre-accession funds or European Union funds. In addition, these amendments and additions to the law stipulate that land ownership by the Republic of Croatia is possible for the construction of a new and expansion of an existing business zone that previously represented a public good, i.e. public infrastructure. Only where the total area of that donated land, the previous public goods shall not exceed a maximum share of 5% of the total area of the entrepreneurial zone, i.e. the maximum size of the total area donated up to 5 ha, subject to the prior consent of the competent authority on the termination of the properties of the public goods for that land. Finally, the co-operation of units of local and regional self-government with the Government of the Republic of Croatia is of paramount importance for further controlled and systematic construction of entrepreneurship zones in such a way that, with the co-financing of units of local, regional self-government for the construction of project documentation, the construction of infrastructure in entrepreneurship zones also enables land owned by the Republic of Croatia to build, i.e. the expansion of the entrepreneurship zone. And all this in such a very transparent, systematic way. We therefore propose that the distinguished representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament unanimously accept these amendments and supplement of the Law on the promotion of entrepreneurship infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75422	I would like to thank the Deputy Minister of Entrepreneurship and crafts Mr Drazen Pross. We have three replicas on this opening exhibit. First honorary representative Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75423	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. Here's a dozen minutes you've introduced us to the bill in a way that you've presented a number of restrictions that will be prescribed by this law so that units of local self-government would become the basis of the Law on the availability of state-owned land owners in the entrepreneurial zone. I suppose it's clear to all of us that these zones are primarily for the provision of certain areas where new jobs could be opened, etc. I can accept clearly that the government sets criteria so that DUDI can have land owned by the state. But I will remind you that the government has been going to Parliament for days and months now with bill proposals such as the Strategic Investment Projects Act, such as the Forests Act that we discussed a dozen days ago, in which there are no restrictions on private entrepreneurs. However, amendments and additions to the Law on Forests are prescribed that even in forests which are a natural wealth, without any restrictions on projects that do not have to be absolutely restricted by any other law, a particular area can be isolated from the forest-economic base and the Government can sell it or in any other way that the law provides for private entrepreneurs. Therefore, on the one hand, when private entrepreneurs are concerned with a government without criteria, land can be allocated. Here, when it comes to units of local and regional self-government, the government has prescribed a number of restrictions as if this same unit of local or regional self-government does not believe this government. I believe that double and unnecessary double criteria and approach are needed to address property-legal relations or ownership of the property of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75424	Second replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75425	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy Minister, you said that you wanted to simplify these amendments to the law, but it's generally said when you want something to be unclear then put it in a sentence as a sausage and then nobody will be clear. And that's exactly how this law is written. See paragraph 1 of Article 3 and paragraph 2 of this sentence is written to you in ten verses. And anyone who reads a sentence like this is vague to him inside. And now I don't understand if you're saying that with this you want to help local self-government units how you didn't know that when there was a debate about the law last year when you were just being warned about this. The other thing, distance doesn't mean anything. Take bigger industrial centers where your economic zones are a few miles away from each other. Therefore, it does not matter if it is a zone in the vicinity of Zagreb, Rijeka or Split or whether it is an economic zone in Banovina or somewhere else where it is not inhabited, in Lica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75426	And the third replica, the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75427	Thank you very much. So I would say that it would be good to add one more thing to the amendments to the law and determine at which time DUDI should resolve the demands of local self-government when it is necessary to either extend the right to build or buy land state or get it on donation. Because these processes take so long to get rid of it, we're already losing track of what we're actually looking for. Furthermore, these 20 kilometers that my colleague Shucker was talking about now are not really clear to me. If this is about the space of the same local self-government, I don't see why it should be 20 km. In that case, you don't need to write any mileage. And if it were to be about that 20km away from the other local self-government, then it's discrimination against the other local self-government. Therefore, if this is about the same local self-government until the area is filled, at least 66% of what is standing here should not be written 20 km away. For what? And I'm saying if it's finally about another local self-government then it's discrimination against local self-government. Therefore, it should certainly be the law to define the deadlines for resolving the requirements to be delivered to DUDI because it takes a very, very long, very long time and is almost impossible to resolve.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75428	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, a respected colleague, Tomislav Klaric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75429	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, Vice President, Deputy Minister. Here's the introduction before I begin the debate you said that you wanted to help us with this law to the units of local self-government. I'm asking you not to help us like this. I'll be back in the 7th month last year and we discussed this law by emergency procedure. The reason for these changes is a copy-pass, it hasn't been a year, we're changing it. Such laws are too serious laws that, without a bigger, wider debate, without an analysis of the situation on the ground, they could be carried out by such an urgent procedure. As far as these changes are concerned, and everything you've said, Deputy, I don't see what you're helping us with. A colleague of the Hill touched that 20 km. I'll try to speak with a simple dictionary that everyone understands. You put these 20 kilometers in the area of a local self-government, regional self-government. Now, describe to me in the Republic of Croatia where they're out of that 20km zone that could possibly get some kind of land? Here's a colleague from the Queen and my zone are only a few miles from each other. According to that logic, we can never collect that percentage so that we can even think about how to get the land. I was at the time in the debate when you suggested all this told you the problems you would have and I spoke and announced that you would have to amend this law because it was not good. In the first instance, it also coincides with the urgent procedure adopted by the Strategic Investment Act. Why is it simple when it can be complicated? This law definitely complicates us on the ground. In Article 9 of the Law which does not exist here, you listed inactive zones, areas in initial activation, medium-active zone and fully active zone. And that's where you set some percentages. Now, a percentage of 66% fillout can give a personal example, mention DUDI and search for land owned by the Republic of Croatia for our business zone. DUDI re-delivers a memo to justify that we have completed 66%. And they see it as the area of the urban plan covers the business zone. Now, each and every one of us, especially us who are on the ground, well knows what problems we all have together with solving property-legal relations. So, according to this, how you wrote the law and how you suggest you neglect property-legal relations in the area covers the urban plan of the industrial zone. And the long-term resolution of these jobs. The entire range of industrial zones regardless of what million squares are, 300 thousand squares, whatever is in that space has a lot of unresolved property-legal relations that local self-government units are solving so that they can even put that space into operation. But these 66% enter what is not ours, so from units of local self-government that could potentially activate while within that zone there is space owned by the state of the Republic of Croatia that we cannot get because we haven't filled in 66% of the total space according to this categorization of the area you wrote here. We have examples of others. We have an example of Novska and their business zones, it seems to me that in 2005 it was held there is 100% land in that area owned by the Republic of Croatia. And what's going on? After 4 months of negotiations with the ino partner, we refer the ino partner to the Ministry of Economy personally with the deputy minister to receive them and did not receive them, although he promised to receive them and then even though they agreed to a reduced price from 80 euros to 60 euros directions to Novska and offered them land owned by the Republic of Croatia for 10 kuna. We have cases like that, and it's good for the investor to go to Novsk to build his own plant there. But not after the already fixed price of 60 euros. We have here my amendments that I've given you on the bill that you have so smoothly refused. I'll read it to you and please consider it now when you see that you have to change the law. The law doesn't apply for a few months, 19.7 seems to me to have come into force last year, now we're half a third month. I suggested that in Article 3 of the Law, paragraph 1. Instead of the words of the area, the words of the building land are placed as part of the building area. I know what I'm talking about. In the areas of urban plans, areas that can be built are also defined, areas that have been left for some corridors and the area of the industrial zone is not the whole range of an industrial plan because it is defined through a spatial and urban plan both through the corridors and through the green belt and through the material surface in that area. Sign that word and nothing costs you, building land as part of the construction area. The area is an entire Republic of Croatia, the construction area is precisely defined term. The second thing, I asked you to install and propose this amendment to the Strategic Investment Act. We have problems on the ground, we cannot own the land because the Extortion Act has defined in which way and for which land can be owned by private property. Here in this amendment I have told you, I have asked you to delete only the word economical, that the law remains an expression of the interest of the Republic of Croatia, because then on the ground you allow us to do a shorter procedure under the Law of Execution which tells you what can be ruled out and what can still be governed but under some special law and this is this special law. I'm going back to that 66%, and it doesn't hold water for you at all, and put that away. If there must already be some percentage then place the percentage of property-legal land that we can put into operation in a given area. Why does this law conflict with the Strategic Investments Act? Because we talked about it recently, not only the Strategic Investments Act, but the Forests Act where you put golf, so we put golf into strategic investment, so we might be able to sort out some kind of golfing area that fills the state budget. And yesterday, there was a full press conference here that we talked about all day to 10 in the evening about the rebalancing of the state budget. What's filling that state budget? This, these small towns, these small municipalities that torture in the field regardless of who in them was in power whether HDZ, SDP, HNS, HSS or already which party tormented for a moment to keep every job. We bring down and give benefits to the communal fee on the communal contribution to everything that life means to people that we can continue to invest in this difficult situation. And you're playing. This way you're not helping us. Speaking of industrial and business areas, you have proposed and there has been a wide debate on how much we will reduce that VAT to the newspaper, tax on what in tourist activity. Do you know how many local self-government units cost more infrastructure in the industrial zone? Water, gas, telecommunications, optics, electricity so that it could bring in business entities at all, not to say buying and solving property relations and paying VAT. That's why I give you a well-meaning amendment to this law. Here when you specify who can manage industrial areas add something that already exists, and you didn't write here. A company with 100% ownership of a local self-government unit or regional self-government established in order to build the development of an entrepreneurial zone because we have this. We in Bakr have our own company d.o.o. which manages and builds infrastructure, but you didn't allow us here to make it 25% cheaper, so the company can build it, then that investment would be 25%, and we don't need your help from the few hundred thousand kunas we take when we sign the contract. Here's the deputy and I took a picture last year with 600 thousand kuna and we justified it with a meter of documentation as much as and where we spent and still looking for a return because we paid earlier the money didn't come to the account while the works were done. If you do not accept entrepreneurship zones as something where the economy is developing, regardless of whether it was a commercial activity, production, storage, service, logistics, any of these are job generators, that is, the development of the state and that is ultimately filling the state budget. I can talk about zones for a very long time, maybe you should apologize for this tone, but you're really not helping us in the field with a bill like this. I ask you to think about it when you're already talking and preparing laws like this to contact us, perhaps not me, but any of yours on the ground that is operating on these work difficulties. Property legal relations, fund-raising, bringing in a business entity and then making it easier for a man to get help with the outcome of the permits to come there and charge ultimately the highest state budget, the smallest budget of a local self-government unit. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75430	Thank you too, colleague. Branko Bačić replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75431	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Klaric, I absolutely agree with your exposure and I believe that the criterion of the used area in a particular zone is the basis for which the state determines whether to donate the unit to local self-government land or not, the last criterion. The basic criterion should be whether the area for which units of local self-government is required to be assigned state land is whether there is an investor because the investor is building according to the Space Plan, whether it meets the conditions laid down in that zone rather than whether more than 66% of the area area is consumed in the meantime. Because what can happen? We have been changing, colleague Klaric, and you know it well, the Law on Spatial Planning which we have prescribed that the state can establish a state spatial plan in the area of the town of Bakra, a new zone, which is also not built, because the plan is only being adopted in the moment in your Bakru, where you have exceptionally arranged the entrepreneurship zone and built it already in large part now with some new zone that will be prescribed by the Republic of Croatia to its own state spatial plan, the surface of the unbuilt work of entrepreneurship zones in the city of Bakru is rising, and you will not be able to make a realisticly justified investment of land that might have been obtained that the state did not adopt a spatial plan and prescribed a new zone of Bakru, and you are not even taking part in it. So here, therefore, the last criterion, Mr. Deputy Minister, should be whether in the local self-government unit there is a consummated area as you have prescribed this law. It is essential whether this investment which needs to be resolved by property legal relations is justified or employed, whether it is in the function of developing local self-government and regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75432	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75433	Comrade Bačić, you are here to witness that after this speaker, we have always talked about the Law on Spatial Planning of Mrs. Mrak Taritash, about the Law on Strategic Investments, about this law, about the Law on Forests, and the same thing because it is a life problem, it is an operative, it is what is being done on the ground. And you know what my answer was when I was in the Law on Spatial Planning, I told strategic investments that already Croatia was spatially planned, that exactly the locations where we were going to do what we were going to do, where we were going to build what. I've been told, he's not going to invest where we're going. And where the investor, where he remembers those +20 km from my zone, will be a lot more squares of zone area, so we'll get some land, here's an example of ours, in the environment of my, the Chavela municipality, the town of Kraljevica, the town of Bakar, sum up their business zone, the square can't fill it into 66% and we're talking about something of interest here, we have economic operators who want to come to that area. We can't solve property legal relations with someone with a country who gives the same land to someone for 10 kuna who agreed to buy it for 60 euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75434	Ivan Shuker replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75435	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Klaric, you know what is the biggest problem of this law and similar laws that have been passed over the past two years, who will lead the main word, who will be in charge. If we founded DUDI as some heir to AUDIJA, we founded it because of the strategic management of the entire estate of the Republic of Croatia. Then it would be logical for DUDI to propose among other things and how land will be used and if someone thinks they can think better and think about how a single unit of local self-government will develop, then they are wrong. Then let's say the mayors, the captains, that they're getting paid and that they shouldn't, if DUDI makes a strategy available to agricultural land, and if any investor's interest is shown, if that's foreseen in the spatial plan, then it's insane to mention any figures at all. And we do it in moments when we have so much free space in business zones, when we have so many business zones where there's practically no one left, this law is written as if at this point we have a rush of investors, as if all our zones were filled and now it's as if the competition is who's going to get that extra land. So let's get down to the ground once and let's start thinking about it so that we stop right there, this is one of the entrepreneurial barriers, this, while the local self-government unit is agreeing this you can laugh, Mr. Deputy, but in your ministry as long as you want, you can't laugh in this House when you're discussing a parliamentary agent, do you understand? You're a guest here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75436	Comrade Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75437	Please, Mr. Vice President, you're a guest here and you're welcome to act like one, please. I wasn't laughing at you when you were talking, but I repeat, this is a barrier until the local self-government unit reaches these conditions that you have gone somewhere else. And you can say whatever you want. The result of this story of yours is 385 unemployed and I repeat, you have come to the Croatian Parliament and you have no right to laugh at a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75438	Comrade Shuker, your time is up. To sit down, you can sit down. Like this, I don't have eyes on my hip or on my back. [[Shucker: But I expected you to protect me as chairman as a parliamentary representative.]] That's a first, and if anyone needs to be warned, then it's the chairman. Comrade Shucker, so I don't think it's appropriate for you to comment on the behaviour of the people in the Parliament. A deputy minister has come forward for the word. Here you go, Deputy. Comrade Shucker, please don't comment. Excuse me, reply to the replica. Here you go, buddy Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75439	Well, here's Mr. Schucker, when there was a renaming of AUDI in DUDI at that time somewhere, and it's already been a while, maybe a year, we filed a request on AUDI, so I guess while it was all being skewed, just the other day I got a memo from DUDI now to justify that 66% is filled in or not filled out, but it's not so important either. The fact is, what you said wasn't helping us and that the investor went the other way until we got this nice in DUDI, AUDI, Pudi, Mudi, I don't know what we don't solve anymore. That's one thing. The other thing is that, and also the most obvious example of what Mr. Boric mentioned in his debate yesterday about the Imperial where the competition was announced and in the competition it was written that they must report to the AUDI which no longer exists, and that is one picture in which our economic development is considered.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75440	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club Davor Bernardic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75441	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here is first and foremost one simple reason why the SDP club will support this, because it is an attempt to remove obstacles that have so far been in the way of those more successful to expand the entrepreneurial zone. So property-legal relations are cancer wounds unfortunately Croatian states and societies. Whatever you try to do, you go and get stuck on property-legal relations, but those who were successful in attracting investment and entrepreneurs in the zone, if they want to expand, can only spread where the country exists. If the country is state-owned, it does not make sense that through the long process, the country is transferred to a local self-government unit but that the state, as all normal developed countries do, only transfer management rights to a local self-government unit. This decision will make it possible. S.H.I.E.L.D., the barrier to those who have developed, who have been able to use the corporate zone and attract investors and those who are not, who have wasted state money, is that the criteria for the area will be 66% of the land's use. This is a key reason and a key prerequisite for the realisation of that land, the state land in managing the local self-government unit through the entrepreneurial zone. I must say here that from 2004 to 2012, over a billion kuna has been invested in entrepreneurial zones, 346 entrepreneurial zones now exist in the Republic of Croatia, 150 zones absolutely do nothing or almost do nothing. So money was spent, thrown into the wind, with this money absolutely nothing was made, and with these money could be opened new jobs, could be invested in education, today perhaps a few people in Croatia could finish a better college or school and be competitive in Croatian and then on the world economy. It's been missed. Unfortunately, it was invested in concrete, wires, infrastructure, communal waste equipment. I have to say this for nothing because half of these entrepreneurial zones are absolutely not serving or almost serving anything. I suggest that you, Mr. Deputy Minister, also consider specific criteria and evaluate the funds invested in certain zones in Croatia, in certain municipalities in Croatia, and subsequently evaluate those money or economic growth or added value that has been achieved in certain municipalities and cities in Croatia. One such evaluation would show that there should be an association of not cities in Croatia but an association of developed cities and that there should be an association and municipalities of developed municipalities in Croatia. The association of developed municipalities and associations of developed cities would certainly know how... new investors, what to do to facilitate business for all entrepreneurs or investors coming to Croatia from the outside, but in order to come foreign investors first have to start investing domestic investors, and then the rest, and then the experience and one such would dare to say debate in a more developed league, which is better, produce a lot of fruit and perhaps local self-government units that have not been able to, thanks to many factors in Croatia, without accounting for political reference, perhaps those units of local self-government would be able to learn something from these developed ones. So half the zone in Croatia, something more than half of it I won't say useless, but almost without results. Huge money is invested in entrepreneurship zones in concrete, infrastructure, equipment, and that a concrete result has not happened, and the only way Croatia will be able to move forward is when it will start to appreciate state money. As long as the state money is scattered on various projects that do not have the necessity of any evaluation, as long as the state money is scattered and overpaid by any work that has no effect on the development of the Croatian economy for themselves, so far as we do not have the right to hope that there will be something better in Croatia. I personally see assistance for entrepreneurs and business infrastructure through removing barriers, I do not believe in large strategies and projects but only in positive examples and those who follow these positive examples. Many in Croatia know, especially in northern Croatia, how it is done. Many entrepreneurial zones in Croatia may be an example, unfortunately none at the technological level of innovation, but this may not be the subject for today, perhaps for one of the next times, but almost half of these entrepreneurial zones in the Republic of Croatia just didn't work out and we have to say that. How best to help them, how to help them? So, through the evaluation of what is being invested in order to achieve economic activity is sublimed in some way and see what those who know how to do it have done, and I think that's the only criterion. Because when we start to appreciate our own money, the money of the citizens of Zagreb, and the Republic of Croatia, I am always connected to the city, then we will only be able to find an answer to the question of how to start the economy and Croatia and other cities and municipalities. And that's why I see this decision and this law just like removing the barrier. So, not as a strategy, not as a major legislative act, but as a small step in removing barriers to make those who have more successful chances, potentials and who have grown up, who have grown and filled 66% of their capacities. So what two-thirds of the capacity they filled out so they could continue to work and grow. And those who are not, unfortunately, should be asked by what criteria they have even received certain state money, because the state money is not there to throw itself away. State money is to plan the development of a state, a particular zone and it is now actually a lot of questions and ingenuity between local self-government and state. So what definitely needs to start working better is this connection between local self-government and the state. One local self-government cannot be a process accelerator, and on the other hand it does not receive adequate response speed from the state itself, nor in the other case the state pushes processes without any possibility of them being implemented at the city, municipality and county level. It just doesn't work. There is no agreement in Croatia for the time being, at least not the clear, clean deal. And many times the responsibility of the local self-government unit is transferred to the state and vice versa. Clearly and clearly about clear things, it is one of the key challenges that Croatia is waiting for and which should be done long ago. Unfortunately, why didn't we talk about it for hours? From 2004 to 2012, over a billion kuna was invested in equipment. Many, one part of that money is well used. But most of that money sure as hell didn't win his score. And that's why I repeat it to you again and I suggest you make an evaluation of what you've invested in compared to what you've got. This will be the only relevant indicator of who is in the above table, who is developed, who can learn from whom it makes sense to follow those who unfortunately have not met these criteria and who simply have to look for the experiences of these better ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75442	Thank you, too. And now he has a good number of replicas from his colleague Bernardic. The first one was Tomislav Klaric, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75443	Comrade Bernardić, you said the evaluation of the invested and obtained. He's not listening to me, look over there. The city of Bakar invested in its 127 million kuna zone. In the past seven years, he has received 4 million and 800 from the state. Now, I'm asking you, when you're only looking at VAT from what's been invested in the area how many states she's got and how much she's given to the city. And the city can't get that land from the Republic of Croatia because in the sum of all these business areas in my environment we can't reach that 66%. That's why you're being denied what you said, removing the barrier. This decision doesn't make it possible. Your theory is great, you speak wonderfully. That's what many people tell us, but until the sleeves are folded and the project documentation is prepared, property-legal settlement, contracting and digging on the ground is hard to run, and it's not exactly like there's a lot of money being thrown into those business zones without anything coming back to the state. We have countless zones that justify every cent invested. We also have those facts that couldn't justify it. But seeing now this problem of land owned by the Republic of Croatia, spatial plans, urban plans, they were agreed by the ministries. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the County and accepted that within that scope is a specific purpose of land. Why, then, should this land be owned by the Republic of Croatia, managed by some kind of DUDI and put ourselves on limits in some percentage. I'm not saying this for any political reason because you're SDP, I'm HDZ, but because I know how it goes and because I know what the problems are. Once our memo comes here to Zagreb, God preserve us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75444	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Bernardić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75445	Well, you certainly know that's why you got the support of your colleagues to be a reporter at that point. Here's for sure you deserve to be in this top part. You have my support, if that means anything to you, and I trust the Ministry itself. I think that's exactly what developed people should have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75446	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75447	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bernardic, you say this law is seen as removing barriers and encouraging those successful. Just the other way around. By this law, those failures who have not realised their zone, and in the reach of this law within 20 km of the successful one now and the successful one will not be able to realize the space, the area for a potential investor because it is being prevented by the failure. That's the problem. So here with this bill of law, we prevent the successful because the failures haven't all surfaced. And I don't see what this law is, believe me. When we adopted the State Property Management Strategy, where we said we would manage state land, we passed the Law on the availability of state-owned property specifically to state-owned properties. Why do we need this now? There is a central state property management body that is authorised, professionally trained, there are laws such as the Law on Spatial Planning, now and the Law on Strategic Investment Projects, and this law on the promotion of entrepreneurship property. What else is necessary for the ministry to intervene in what has already been agreed, established, and thus not to remove but to create new barriers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75448	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75449	We certainly agree that too many laws and systems are likely to be predetermined, but perhaps you have misread it. Here it says that those who have met 66% in their business zone, so who are successful, who have filled 66% of the capacity have the right to gain land from the state if they want to, or demand it. So, just the other way around. So those who are successful have that right. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75450	Ante Sanader, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75451	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Bernardic, you said what I couldn't agree with absolutely, you say has nothing to do with investment. That's a tough word, maybe some zone isn't filled, and you say they didn't bring investors. The role of units of local and regional self-government is to create conditions for the development of entrepreneurship, and local self-government and regional cannot affect a tax policy that is often the most crucial in some areas. We advocate, this country's strategy is even development. So, it is not the goal of keeping the entire Croatia in 4 Croatian cities. Look at these rural environments and look at the possibility of investment in those environments. What tax policy we've brought in stimulatingly for these rural environments where people won't just come in. But if there was a possibility of tax-stimulating people getting there then there would be an investment there. And our goal is to keep the population in all these rural areas. Because when they come to Zagreb, they're poor, and they still have some living conditions. And look at the issue of building permits, the same conditions are for building permits in the last village, in the most rural and central Zagreb. Is that stimulating? And when we say here that this law is stimulating, whose land is it? Local self-government units simply took away the entire land by one law. The land of the Croatian Forests was declared, and until yesterday it was the land of local communities and municipalities. Is this guy from Zagreb smarter, regardless of who's leading, DUDI or who's the minister, is he smarter or the one from the local administration when he comes to the ministry then he's smart, then he knows how to own land, and while the mayor and the mayor don't get it, then he's not able to manage that land. So we could talk here today about stimulations, about incentives to build some infrastructure or something but to discuss land that is in local self-government units and that is in the area where this local self-government unit can develop is funny and should be banned. So these mayors, the mayors, the mayors are able to manage their area. And they don't need the ministry or DUDI, AUDI or any institution to have and decide.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75452	Time. Thank you. Answer, colleague Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75453	Well, no, that's exactly how I see it. So those who are able have an additional incentive. That's what this law predicts. What we agree is that there is definitely a major regional imbalance in Croatia, but this is not only a problem for Croatia, it is also a problem for the whole EU. This is an area of a specific common European regional development policy aimed at reducing the differences between certain areas in the EU itself. That's our question too, that's our domestic big question. Now, by solving this issue and answering that question, it must not happen that the units of local self-government that are close to each other have similar characteristics of the field, they are competitive among themselves and in some ways do not have a social agreement on what they will create within their territory. That's why it's really important, it's just a question of whether it's ever been done, the role of the state in unbalanced areas of Croatia. Because you can't decide if you have nothing to grow or produce everything. If you have nothing to decide on strategically what you will produce, and since one of the key drivers is through the fiscal instrument of the state, the balancing fund, the ministry through certain programmes, guarantees. So, it's simple, so ultimately, and with the state-related companies, it's simply necessary that this thing and then perhaps at the county level define that there are no conflicting interests between certain municipalities or cities located in the same area, which share similar problems, and which each other in entrepreneurship areas, compete with themselves in the development of entrepreneurship. This is unfortunately a fact in Croatia in many areas, especially in Slavonia and Dalmatia, in areas that are slightly less developed in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75454	Srdjan Gjurkovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75455	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, I must say, I agree with you and Mr. Klaric, he is not here right now in the debate. No matter what you seem to be in different debates, and what you pointed out to be an evaluation. So, the State Audit is just doing an analysis of the efficiency of the establishment, construction and functioning of entrepreneurship zones in the Republic of Croatia, which will be completed in the 6th month with a clear county. We will receive information about the analysis at the 9th month in the Croatian Parliament and all the public. What you know, which is that around 500 means some municipalities have more zones. According to spatial plans, there are over 1,000, there are different cases and situations. And what is certain is this law, and after we get an analysis, I believe that we will have a new law the same here in the Croatian Parliament, and that it will essentially be the most impoverished at that moment after the analysis that carefully and responsibly that all you need answers to those who are successful not to stop them, that it does not provide space in DUDI and in all of those state institutions that make these zones work even better and even more high quality, and that I will not say sanctioners because the money spent will be difficult to pay back but let us not spend money further in vain. And I believe that after that analysis we will have and we will probably need a new law but then there won't be any more problems with the questionnaires whether or not we are here to invest the funds. And for the good part, we'll know who was successful or not as successful. Mr Batinic in terms of success.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75456	My colleague Bernardic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75457	Thank you very much. So here's exactly what you said about the role of the state is actually some mediator is that it encourages these faster to go even faster, and to pull these slower, or to help them. The task of the state is not to drag these successful ones down, and these kind of encourage something that I can't do by myself anyway. So that's exactly what the government's money has to be for. Because without it, unfortunately, without these positive examples and without those who draw, there is simply no success. The world is driven by a more successful, better, faster and thus if we start treating those who are in Croatia today, I think it is the only way and way of success.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75458	Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75459	Thank you very much. Well, I don't think it's good for my colleague Bernardic, and we're young and you and I, to perform with them, so I've also got feelings of elitist or elite positions because you've recently resented them for your party president. So I got the impression let's separate those developed from those undeveloped and then create certain theories and relationships there. Because I really don't see a country getting or losing if it gives or doesn't give someone land, whether it gets more if it does or doesn't lose more, let's do it because we know how many we have these thousands and thousands and hundreds of thousands of acres, which the state is going to do on them, nothing. If you give it to local self-government, I think it's at least getting a chance to bring this land to a point in some way. This is how it looks like dead capital. We unfortunately can't accept these criteria is I'm going to give you an example of my island, I'm coming from the island, we don't have from the end to the end or 20 km, what am I going to do? I can only plan the zone in the sea then, no, I have two zones, one on one end, the other on the other and what now? You've got 20 kilometers in the sea and we've got the fill and what do we do now? We can no longer do so by law or gain a meter of state land and it's just a piece of junk, a stone that doesn't have any purpose unless the local self-government brings it to its end. I'm not for a strategy that you promote as a SDP that we all have to live in big cities. That's what you base your traffic strategy on, that's what you base your future division on, that's what you base everything on. I think the future will repeat what I already said in Bukovica, both in Dalmatia and in the islands and in Slavonia and in Lika and Croatia will not be rich or developed if we all live only in large cities, which does not mean that I am against them developing too. But understand us who come from underdeveloped, smaller environments that it is not easy for us to sing here from the ministries, from Zagreb because everything here is perfect. It's not easy for us to watch it, let alone listen to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75460	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75461	I love Rab. I love Rab. Here is the acquisition of circumstances I was born in Zagreb, I am a Zagrebian and Croatia is all beautiful, I was not so lucky to be in Rab but no one resents me and what is important is that this potential must be exploited. One of the ways you can make the best use of your potential by encouraging those who know and use it to help them in this way, those who have filled their capacities to do even more. Rab is an island, island is a particular problem, limited space, no place to spread but the fact is that, but the island is and look the island is beautiful, the island is beautiful, sometimes it's poorly connected, it's certainly one place where you definitely have a much bigger perspective especially in a more recent time because of tourism for development than anywhere else. And I think that Rab with its two municipalities solidly compared to the rest of Croatia does it, solidly, that's what I think because I'm very often on Rab and my first associate at the university is right from Rab.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75462	Thank you. Marian Skvaric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75463	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague, I really agree with you that, above all, in this system, the granting of state land is, of course, the support for the entrepreneurial initiative that needs to be done. I know it well because every asset we have to invest the best, the best quality, so now it wasn't the case, you can see, so from that zone they're not in the activities of entrepreneurial activity at all. I don't know exactly how many millions of kunas, for a hundred million kunas that are now frozen in infrastructure, and that's where the state is, we have to admit by hand and hat sharing land, donated funds for certain we have to tell the mayors, the mayors to build monuments and that we're sending some messages here we can do what we want and how we want. And instead of having entrepreneurial activity there, now there's growing weeds, ambrosia along those roads, buttocks and lighting that doesn't work in that part. I know that, I know that because as mayor I was very much present in the zone where we were especially in the North that you praised every square meter with our own means, we couldn't get a single square meter by budget means, where we were also there 15 km from where they got land for free, a substation for free, a infrastructure for free, so we were surprised why someone could do it. We need to make order, it's this law that does it. There are some mistakes, they are corrected and the barriers are really removed. An example of good practice, I said indeed to the north, which is very much proving it, and of course we do not want to invest badly and freeze the asset. In the end, it should certainly increase the competitiveness of all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75464	Thank you. Ivan Shuker replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75465	Thank you very much. Well, look, colleagues and colleagues, it's not good to throw around with statements that something's been thrown in one way or another. So the idea with economic zones was the idea of simply trying to develop Croatia more evenly. Also, that country has not been taken, no one has stolen, it is owned by units of local self-government and at the end of the day the state can pass a law if it is not brought to the point of taking it back. However, what is the difference between the ownership of the local self-government unit and the state, is that Croatia? It is. But my colleague Bernardic, I answered the line. I would like you to rephrase this law to the eastern and western entrance of the city of Zagreb and what surrounds us and try to apply it and now I will give you an example. Look what large money is infrastructureally invested to make IKEA a shopping centre there, it's about tens of millions of euros and be sure that anyone who wants to open something at this point is going to want to do it near IKEA, why? Because she says that on average a few thousand people will come every day and a logical thing that various service centers and this, they will want to do there. Now, look, you have a Žitnjak, an old polluted industrial zone still expanded, which has not certainly been built 66%, you have an economic zone in the Long Village that hasn't been built 66%, you have several dozen acres of the same economic zone in God's possession, but also in this IKEA you have state land, and now that all around IKEA is filled with a normal thing that the town or municipality of Rugvica that already belongs to is asking the state land to expand it around IKEA because it's a big rush, there would want people to come, but since you have 20 kilometers of 4 or 5 zones that are not filled, it can't go through this law. Let's move to the west side of town, please just two sentences, Mr. Vice President. St. Sunday, Samobor and Jankomir, which is industrially polluted, you don't have 20 kilometers either, so you're pushing people where they won't go. That's what I was talking about, what Mr. Deputy was laughing at so sweetly. However, you need to do something in your life to know what you are saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75466	Thank you. Answer, colleague Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75467	Thank you for wanting to apply this in Zagreb. Here's what I can tell you, as soon as I'm in a position to try to realize on the basis of this law what can be done in the city of Zagreb. And as for the specific problems and problems that you have identified, if there is a problem anywhere and there is a problem, I think the duty and local self-government is in a joint action with, let's say the ministry that this problem is solved. If this is going to be the case, and if that is the case, why, I don't see any reason why, like this law, removing the obstacle, so remove the obstacle and when it will have to deal with the expansion of the zone in any of this case of which the interest in question appears. Therefore everything should be made possible, everything should be done to make every potential investment you've talked about realise. And I think there will be hearing, there is no reason, all are reasonable people, all Croatia and the development of our country is in the interest. I think everyone in this country has to be up to it all the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75468	Thank you. And the last replica, Denesh Shaw. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75469	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bernardić, you have made a very quality finding regarding these zones and the circle of undeveloped municipalities and cities. In my opinion, there is a big mistake, and in that I can only say about certain institutions at the state level, that there is no appraisal of the resources, the wealth of certain municipalities, and if you have certain wealth, and there is some local leadership there taking a little nap, so to speak, there is no ambition to use it, and then we happen that certain infrastructure and local self-government can hardly build anything from their original incomes. The infrastructure can only be built from sources from the state level, very little from the county level and then it happens to us that certain areas, I can say it specifically for Baranja, that there are 60 thousand quality processing areas, a large part of it is in a concession that is one-third of the market value, there is a flow of income from that area, and that natural wealth we have there is not able to use because we do not have enough resources for infrastructure. You, you've heard of Kopački Ritt, you don't have a quality opportunity to approach or any other localities. Two buses cannot pass, but this local self-government is not able, and those who have the means, the profession in every respect, does not estimate that there should be an investment because there is a chance of development if agriculture no longer provides existence, every day there is a growing number of employees because each modernization reduces, we have to turn to service activities, various forms of tourism. And if we don't build the infrastructure, it won't be anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75470	Thank you. And the name of the Club of HNS Representatives, Dragutin Glava. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75471	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. You'll probably believe me that in 1987 I participated in the construction of an entrepreneurial zone considering, here's the color of the hair and perhaps a date in my homework. However, I also participated from 2003 to 2013, a decade as mayor also in the construction of economic zones in its city, a city that has received certain recognitions from the visa-free economic zone, former economy ministries and other institutions. It's that little town where the building permit comes out in 15, 16 days, that's the town where investors from Sweden, Germany, Austria and I'm not counting yet, America, the United States, that's the town that's been in those ten years, where in those areas around 2000, around 2,000 jobs have been opened, and when I'm looking at and listening to some of these discussions, then I have to say that it's important that since 2001, or 2003, when it started to work very well on these entrepreneurial areas, every year has made some progress in some part of it. Last year, there was also a particular emphasis on the introduction of a proposal for a Law on the promotion of entrepreneurship infrastructure, which is the introduction of order in entrepreneurship infrastructure, i.e. in entrepreneurship zones and entrepreneurship support institutions. Why do I say that? Because the figures speak, it is then mentioned that in 2012 the construction of 346 entrepreneurial zones in which 2870 entrepreneurs work was co-financed, with around 47 thousand employees, and that the government participated in co-financing somewhere with 688 million kuna. I'm going to say right away in my town or we're about 4% of those 47 grand somewhere, but the 688 million we participated with only 0.6% means somewhere around 5 million. For this reason, it is certain that some measures had to be taken, especially for this reason, because there were no economic activities in the 123 zones. It's kind of underwritten from strategic preparation. Since the state singles out funds for this purpose, it is normal and certain that it, together with the unit of local self-government through this law, wants to bring more strategies and more order into this sphere, but through this, to increase economic activity and gain what is certainly the basic thread of leadership, especially now that it is a Croatian member of the EU. These zones should also be more attractive for investors, or particularly for investors in this area. This was also the main purpose of the adoption of the Law on the promotion of entrepreneurship infrastructure, with then optimistic announcements for greater investment in the coming years in entrepreneurship support institutions. This is meant by entrepreneurship centres, incubators, technology parks and development agencies, as well as the sites of institutions through which EU money is expected to be absorbed during this period. Given the existing state of availability of land owned by the Republic of Croatia for the construction or expansion of entrepreneurship zones, the need for further definition of the criteria for an economically justified land allocation for that purpose has been established as there is a large number of requests by the unit of local self-government. Therefore, these amendments and additions to the existing law should be regulated as said shortly before by Deputy Minister No 1 on the issue of defining the concept of expanding existing entrepreneurship zones and under issue 2 of the preconditions that entrepreneurship zones should meet in order to make land owned by the Republic of Croatia for their construction or expansion. The most important thing is that the regulation of these two basic issues will further systematically and transparently define the availability of land owned by the Republic of Croatia for the construction or expansion of entrepreneurship zones. This should ultimately contribute to the effective implementation of the law or, more simply, that the donation of land owned by the State for the purposes of building or expanding entrepreneurship zones is as economically justified as possible. What is changed or complemented by the articles of the final draft amending and supplementing law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure? That's what the deputy minister spoke of extensively. I will only briefly say that the examples of Article 5(2) are defined in detail by the founders and managers of entrepreneurship infrastructure. Article 6(3) lays down the concept of the available area of the entrepreneurship zone, taking into account ownership relations within the area of the zone or making the legal definition of land available by the founders of the entrepreneurship zone and other owners. Major changes occur in Article 24 which discusses the availability of land owned by the Republic of Croatia and for the purpose of building or expanding entrepreneurship zones. It is, in fact, the requirements of the unit of local and regional self-government for land donation and the construction of new and existing entrepreneurship zones. The law lays down the need to amend the provisions of the law of Article 24(1), (2) and (3) in a way that further explains the availability of land owned by the Republic of Croatia under the notion of an expansion of the existing business zone and the availability of land owned by the Republic of Croatia, which is covered by the Decision establishing an entrepreneurship zone. In accordance with Article 1 of the priority models, the establishment of a property right, the establishment of a service right, joint construction or financing, and the replacement of real estate shall be added. Amendments in paragraph 2 shall be made to the possibilities of donation. With the new proposal, donation is only possible if the total amount of the available area of all entrepreneurship zones activated within the unit of local self-government that applies for land allocation is more than 66%, etc. the following points are inserted after point (c) of point (c) of Article 4(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013: which was explained by the Deputy Minister, and which caused a certain dispute here. This restriction may not be well received, asphyxiated by populated areas where distance from neighbouring municipal or city centers rarely crosses 5 or 10km. It's our county of Međimurska, but there are other counties. Article 4 contains the possibility of exempting these restrictions from specific economic interests when establishing entrepreneurship zones. It states that in the event of the establishment of an entrepreneurial zone of particular economic interest, in accordance with the provisions of Article 5(3) and (4) of this Act, where a limiting factor is the size of a zone of at least 50 hectares and for entrepreneurship zones which have been authorised to co-finance from pre-accession funds or funds of the European Union, it is possible to donate land owned by the Republic of Croatia with the exception of the provisions laid down in Articles 2 and 3 of this Article. That's what we said before. I believe that this item should add to the exemption other than co-financing of European Union funds and financing by investors or entrepreneurs because it is impossible to foresee the wishes and specificities of individual potential investors or investors. So why don't you give him the opportunity to finance the expansion of the zone or build a new zone, I know it best from my own experience. Article 5 speaks of the possibility of donation of land owned by the Republic of Croatia for the construction of a new and expansion of an existing business zone which, in nature, previously represented public well-being, mostly public infrastructure. It is also possible in this respect, with the exception of the provisions of Articles 2 and 3, but where the area of the donated land does not exceed a maximum share of 5% of the total area area area. Here are colleagues and colleagues, especially considering the lack of systematic access and criteria for determining economic justification, co-financing of construction and expansion of entrepreneurship zones, the HNS Club will support this bill. I would ask for an indication of my proposal to supplement paragraph 4 of Article 24 of the Law, which would make co-financing by entrepreneurs, the investor enters the exemption in the provision of paragraphs 2 and 3, as well as the possibility of a solution to this distance from 20.... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75472	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75473	Thank you very much. You spoke of the need to amend this existing law. So the amendments to any law should always be the result of the perceived shortcomings and difficulties in the application of the existing law and should reflect the wishes and purpose that we expect to achieve by some new amendment. By reading the explanation of this bill, I cannot argue that I have not yet read the poorer explanation of the need to amend a law after so many years. This is the poorest thing that exists, until now, that has come to the Croatian Parliament. The only need to change this law says it is necessary to further define the existing law. It's the only explanation why the law changes. When you don't want to or don't know what to say, then you use an empty termology like this that tells the consequences that will result from the adoption of this law. A sentence simply expanded that means nothing, not a single word can be understood as to what is to be achieved. So how does the legislator mean with 66% of the available area of all entrepreneurship zones, how did it come to 66%? Which means, no words. Which means 19 km or 20 km or 21? I can't even figure out what's behind the amendment to this law, what's going to happen with this law I don't know. Actually, he won't do anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75474	Thank you. Time. Here you go, fellow Chief.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75475	Thank you very much. Well, I think the basic intensity of the adoption of this total law and the first part of last year was the introduction of a certain order into the construction of the economic zone. Here from those numbers, I don't know how many zones, how much money is invested in those zones, and where no economic activity is taking place. That's one thing. And what about this percentage is 66% probably a percentage should have been taken for one simple reason, because it's not looking for the possibility of getting land or building a new economic zone, and yet some are not optimally filled.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75476	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Nenad Dance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75477	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with assistant, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'll be as short as I can to not take much time because competent people have talked about this subject before than I have. The law on the promotion of entrepreneurship infrastructure was read in the 7th month of last year, as is the emergency procedure as it is today. Is it an emergency procedure because investors came to us we don't know that, but the explanation stems from an assessment of the situation, and the situation is unchangeable since 7 months 2013. And then there were 346 entrepreneurial zones, 196 were active, in 123 zones there were no entrepreneurial activities as today, in 27 there was documentation or building facilities. We have information that around 690 million kuna has been invested in entrepreneurship zones from 2004 to 2012. How much has been invested in 2013 we don't know. Perhaps it would be good if that information was in the light of this Law. The number of employees in those zones is 46935 employees. About 47,000 were the same last year. The use and capacity of entrepreneurship zones is different because of the different degree of construction in these zones. And that's the condition we have today. The debate in 7 months 2013 discussed perspective and less perspective areas. You need to see what you can and should invest in. In entrepreneurship zones there must be activities to invest, or support wishes, ideas are not enough. We have to have investors and these are one of the main facts and thesis mentioned in the debates in the 7 months last year. I will now quote a quote from the Business Log of 26.6.2013, which is also quoted by Minister Maras. So he says, "The law defines concepts, types and zones of entrepreneurial zones. It will establish a register and adopt criteria for support that were not available in 2012. We want more strategies and synergies, which is very important because the business zones in the future will, especially with Croatia's entry into the European Union, be attractive for investment and are expected to absorb some of the EU funds. We will also significantly strengthen the role and budgets of support institutions to facilitate business in entrepreneurship areas. Also, support will be given only by those who work, not by those who boast that they have zones in election campaigns.", said the minister at the time. Also in the debate at the Croatian Parliament when he defended this law in 2013 at 7 months, the register was mentioned, so he says we do not have a register. All that should have the advantages of the education structure in that city, which industries represent in that region, etc. The deputy minister mentioned something, and now I'd just ask if it was done? I'm not in this, is it a register? It is. So in an explanation, I've heard a little bit of it. Well, that's what it's supposed to say, and that's what it's done. This change of three articles should be given to someone owned by the Republic of Croatia if we do not have an investor, then it is pointless to discuss it. These supplements want to address the question of defining the concept of expanding existing entrepreneurship zones, the issue of criteria that entrepreneurship zones should meet in order to make land owned by the Republic of Croatia available for construction or expansion of existing entrepreneurship zones. The consequences will be effective law enforcement, i.e. to enable economically justified land donations owned by the Republic of Croatia for the construction and expansion of entrepreneurship zones. If nothing has changed since last year, and as we have seen in the explanation of the law, if activities are conducted in business zones or if they are not watered, if these cosmetic changes are going to make better sense. Otherwise, I don't know what we're discussing about this law. That is why I think it is necessary, however, to think about the law on the side of the consensus, because we have competent persons who have discussed in this House before, such as Mr. Klaric, who has experience in the management of the zones. And it would be good for you to make and make the right decisions in the zone and in the government, and respect the attitudes of the professions and opinions of the people who work in the field, who manage entrepreneurship zones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75478	Thank you. Tomislav Klaric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75479	Here's a colleague you mentioned perspective and less perspective. What is less perspective or more perspective in Croatia? I think Croatia is our Homeland so beautiful, so rich, it's all very perspective. And you mentioned donating land if there are no investors is immaterial. So the state doesn't donate land to Pleshe, Klaric, Gjurkovic or anyone else, the state gives land to local self-government units. I guess they're the Republic of Croatia, too. We mentioned earlier in a conversation outside with a colleague from the HDSSB why some zones, maybe it was pointless to plan them. I don't think it's personal. Which costs who in some municipality or city in Slavonia, Lica or anywhere else has reserved a space for an entrepreneurial zone, regardless of what might not be an investor for it at that time. So the question is, why isn't he building infrastructure? It's simply because he doesn't have the resources. But there comes a time when such a thing will be quite perspective. I hope that in the Gorski Kotar that we love, both you and I, the areas that are planned for both Lokva and Fužine, Delnice, in all the surrounding cities, will certainly be perspective because they have potentials, have opportunities, have infrastructure not far from them. And what the state needs is a land to have with it some kind of DUDI when it has its own unit of local self-government, its own municipality, its own city. Why the Shares could not own land that is currently owned by the Republic of Croatia with which there is some kind of DUDI within the scope of the urban plan and the zone, regardless of which there may be no investors at this time but will appear. There are mechanisms in which this city or the local self-government unit can be limited to having this land in a kind of bad way. And the land owned by the city, the municipality or the state by me is the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75480	Thank you. Bad experience from a past colleague. My colleague's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75481	Thank you. I took out the text of the debates that were held here in the Parliament in the 7th month. What do they mean? So they probably mean some that can develop faster than those that are here have no perspective, or worse, investors come to them. The donation of land is certainly more quality to donate state land to entrepreneurship zones than to rule it out there for golf courses, they rule out forests. The existing zone should be prepared certainly because if an investor comes into one local self-government and asks in which option, where he can build some object if there is no spatial location where the entrepreneurial zone is, so if only then we go into the creation of that entrepreneurial zone that investor will certainly not remain there but will go somewhere further. So, you need to prepare entrepreneurship zones. You said no money, maybe at the local administration to build the necessary infrastructure, but the spatial plans exist. So if there's a need in these small areas to expand if it's a serious investor who needs more land than is foreseen by a spatial plan why not give him that land? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75482	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club Igor Češek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75483	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Deputy Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs. If you were a colleague of Klaric, I must look first of all at your replica of colleagues from the Croatian Labours, you were talking about the perspectives of developing entrepreneurial zones. However, here is a very important question, how can we in the Republic of Croatia even think about the prospects of developing entrepreneurial zones if we see what is happening and what is the situation in the economy, in the economy of the Republic of Croatia? Well, we're also witnessing in the end of yesterday's budget rebalance where we see it, we're talking today in debate and on the development of the wood industry, and yesterday we could see that the wood industry support funds were reduced by 79 million kuna. We could also see that in the budget rebalancing to boost the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises the funds were reduced by 114 million kuna. So, what are we talking about? Today we're talking about the perspectives of entrepreneurial zones, and yesterday we're taking money from small and medium-sized enterprises. Also an active employment policy. Minus 177 million kuna in rebalancing for 2014. We're talking about entrepreneurship again today. So the debates are doubled, the thinking is doubled. What I can understand in some ways is the Ministry's intention to introduce entrepreneurship in the existing entrepreneurship areas, introduce business, not to remain empty. But what bothers me the most in this bill is that distance of 20 km. So we can't talk in a small county about the distance of 20 km. The only local self-government city, city and other city is 20 km away. No one can blame one of the city's leaders or anyone else for not having an investor in his business zone. So first of all, this refers to what conditions we have provided for entrepreneurs to come to invest in these entrepreneurial zones. There's a utility fee somewhere. There's 50 kuna somewhere. Somewhere, municipal fees are reduced to kuna if over 50 people are employed. There's a square of land somewhere in the entrepreneurship zone, there's examples, 280 kuna, there's kuna somewhere. So, we can't do that 20 kilometers, I think it's a stumbling block between the ruling and the opposition. That should be done, so maybe you should go in two readings. Okay, we can agree to this fulfillment, i.e. the activation of 66%, because this depends mostly on the capacity of the local self-government unit as far as they are capable of building some kind of plan for the development of the entrepreneurial zone. There are beautiful examples, Dupolje, entrepreneurial zones in the city of Osijek. So there are positive examples. But there are also negative examples where we have two or three entrepreneurial zones, the fourth is opening right at the pre-election time when the mayor opens up infrastructure, asphalt on that entrepreneurial zone, and the two previous ones are experiencing ambrosia and there are huge problems. And now to make the mayor look good to his citizens, what does he do with land on that entrepreneurial zone? Here are you citizens who live in buildings growing vegetables on that entrepreneurial zone. So that's what's wrong, that's what needs to be changed. If we grow vegetables on the first or second corporate zone, what do we need the third one to do besides cut the ribbon and collect our political points? That's what's wrong. And I'm going to tell you an example from practice, from an entrepreneurial zone where there are 15 entrepreneurs, not 15 entrepreneurs, but 15 entrepreneurs only 2 entrepreneurs deal with production. The rest are service activities and logistics. Of the 543 employees in the respective business zone, 102 employees work in production. And we're witnessing, and we know that if you have some kind of logistics at a larger number of square meters that takes up some kind of warehouse you have far fewer employees than if it's production. Therefore, each unit of local self-government must work on the strategy, i.e. how it will attract those investors to invest in the production of not only warehouses. The least of the trouble is making a hall and importing goods. We heard today and through discussions about how many billions of imports of food. So, we have warehouses with an employee warehouse, a fork shop, and that's it, the entrepreneurial zone has succeeded. No, it's not that. The thing is, is there's gonna be some kind of machine out there that's gonna have some kind of production. This is the problem of this government and previous governments, which was not a matter of strengthening the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. That's the basic problem. It's not a basic problem if some city has 3 or 4 entrepreneurial zones, it's a basic problem who's going to come into the entrepreneurship zone. Traffic connection, infrastructure, will there be a fast road, highway, rail infrastructure? These are the problems that must be discussed before this law itself. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, we will be restrained as far as this law is concerned. Noting, this 20 km is an absolute nonsense, because we don't really see, we don't see the purpose of that item that limits to 20 km. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75484	Thank you, too. Moving to replicas, Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75485	Mr. Chesek, you said well, how can we talk about perspectives when we don't have strategies? So just when we talked about the Strategic Investments Act, the strategy was an investment of over 150, 75, 20, 20 and it's all a strategy and there's no strategy for the development of the Republic of Croatia in this sense. And it's one of the elements why these laws are passed this way. What you said once again, that 20 km is nonsense, and it's just not practical, and as for what you said about the store or the service activity or the hospitality or logistics, all of it can be combined into some kind of business zone. Someone's producing, someone's producing has to store somewhere, somewhere oscarinite, somewhere logistics has to do its job, and somewhere it has to be sold, and it all has to be combined in some one or two or three areas in a particular area, but for that we need what the Republic doesn't have, there's no basic document, we don't know what we want, and that's why we're making laws where we're going to work in some kind of woods, so we're making laws where some kind of strategic investment is going to be, and 50 million people are going to be anywhere and not in that zone where your ambrosia is growing because it's meant to do that. It was spent on building infrastructure, and it can be offered to such an investor, if it won't be nice, my friend, go on. If we take off as the people say, it won't be good for us and we have potential, we have opportunities, and after all, and these highways have cost us something, and the railway line will cost us a new one, and that part of us can only develop in that part to fill all those zones.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75486	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Chesek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75487	Thank you, Vice President. My friend, thank you for the replica. Well, that's exactly what we in the HDSSB have been talking about for a long time. So, some government has a say under the quotes of heads and legs, the head is in that case prime minister and the arms are ministers who are obviously not in synergy with this government. So we have one ministry that tells us that we need to invest maximum investment in private entrepreneurship, then we have the Ministry of Regional Development when the minister says that privates are the ones who haven't done absolutely anything, that they've practically been given everything and we've seen through the rebalancing as much as they've been given, that they've done nothing to develop competitiveness. That's the basic thing. And as for the business zones themselves, so look, I know from my own personal examples where interested investors bought parcels, so they didn't, they can freely call them beach investors because they bought plots in the hope that they would achieve a better price in two or three years, and that's the basic problem. So, I don't know, I don't guarantee for other units of local self-government whether they've prescribed some kind of deadline until when these zones must be built or sold to, but there's the same problem. But the problem is the same gap between the government of the Republic of Croatia and the leader of the units of local self-government. So the government is considered superior to them instead of sitting with them at the table and listening to their problems and how to solve these problems. When we succeed, regardless of the political colors, whether they are red or blue in power, when we succeed, then we will only be able to work on the development of Croatian competitiveness.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75488	Thank you. Marian Skvaric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75489	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, first of all in your presentation, you have cited examples of bad practices as regards investment in the entrepreneurial zone and you have cited examples of good practice and we agree that after these examples we have to make an effort to make order. You once said that the foundation that we have to work very hard on competitiveness and then you said that this government isn't doing it, this government is working very hard to be competitive, that we have all the same chances to kill. All of us who are mayors, Commissioners, we all have some kind of entrepreneurship zone in our areas and we all have spatial planning documentation that defined it. Now if we talk about this competitiveness let's see how someone mentions again someone who still has over 10 thousand kuna per capita income and why it should also get state land. So he buys this state land, and especially by that if he has an investor to whom this same property will immediately succeed and sell and we have local administrations that have really small budgets, budgets but they have investors, they are in a good position because you also have benefits positions, benefits traditions, benefits from professional labour, there are opportunities for such local administrations to give land that will invest in their development. So it's quite a talk about this, about the competitiveness of this bill that we've already had in this change gives basic parameters if they're not good let's change them. So there's a clear case that there's a problem in that part that we've pointed out right in the context of public goods if you have through an entrepreneurial zone where you have a stream, road, a canal or something that can really be donated to this land because it's less than 5% and the other 18 acres we've bought by our own means, so the government is working on competitiveness and respects the needs of local self-government development.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75490	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Chesek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75491	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, you said in the replica this government is working to raise competitiveness. I can freely say that this government is only working to raise parafiscal burdens and raise the tax burden on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia but also entrepreneurs, craftsmen and businessmen. So, raising the VAT rate is for you to raise competitiveness, wandering tax on tourism from 13 to 10, and from 10 to 13 it's for you to raise competitiveness, increasing and reducing contributions, it's for you to raise competitiveness. Well, none of your ministers said today that any normal investor will invest in Croatia. For what? Well, it's because he doesn't know what he's expecting tomorrow. It's the basic problem of this government precisely because it doesn't know what's coming tomorrow. Today one law, tomorrow another law. So we're changing them here in the Parliament. I'm not surprised at the public conviction, so we're changing them like we're on the treadmill, all by emergency procedure. We're at 15% today, we're at 13. We're a little at 22%, we're a little on 25. Well, I mean, like I don't really know what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75492	Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75493	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Czech, I need to draw your attention to a few things. First of all, there is a strategy for the development of entrepreneurship, it is the first strategy we have brought to the history of the modern Republic of Croatia, right in this House and not long ago, so I just wanted to remind you of it. You've touched a 20-mile problem that I'm going to say the same thing in my individual debate, but you know what my colleague's problem is? Everyone would love anything. We need to understand there's no such thing as a mess. We'd all like zones where, you know, you said yourself, we don't want logistics, we just want production, and we don't just want production, we want textile production. However, we must face reality, and we must not run away from any economic branch, and I will set an example for you as I see it. For example, the city of Djakovo of my county has an ideal position to be exactly the logistics center, then it will not employ tens of thousands of people, but it will certainly employ 1,000. Why hasn't anyone in the local self-government in the city of Djakov recognized that yet, that's another question. On the other hand, the Municipality of Levantska Varoš, located in the middle of the forest, in the middle of the mountain, certainly has a huge potential for wood industry and wood processing industry and all the industries that attach to it. So I'm not an economist, but we know that the manipulative costs or transport costs are the ones that are trying to reduce, and that's exactly the kind of approach we want to make our entrepreneurship as competitive as possible. But you can't do it in a position where everyone wants everything and everybody wants everything right away and everybody doesn't think at all strategically or in the long term, so I'm talking about units of local self-government that are the founders of these same entrepreneurship zones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75494	Thank you. Answer me, comrade Chesek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75495	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Hajdukovic, I see that the stumbling block is 20 kilometers. So look, 20 kilometers takes up a little geographical area and about, what I was about to say is that I'm talking about the example of my Virovitica-Podravna County that I'm from. We're at the foot of Bilogor and Papuk, and we've focused on agriculture in the wood industry. But if the Mayor of Orahovica can't attract an investor, and I can attract him in Virovitica and Slatina, and I can do better, so why shouldn't an investor come to me, or why not come to him if I've fulfilled 66% of the activities of the entrepreneurial zone? So, there's this basic problem that I think that these 20 kilometers really need to be wiped out of this law because it's about that if someone's zone is full of just because they're lobbying, and I'm bringing in the investor, and I can't hire him in my own zone just because his fulfillment is 66%. Well, I mean, that's pointless.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75496	And the last replica, Ante Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75497	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague, you said that local self-government units must work to attract investors, logically and clearly, that's the basic thing, but you need to know which tool in the hands of the local self-government unit, which they have at their disposal. You know, other than the communal contribution that is intended and communal fees again, they don't have instruments, they can go down there and that's what they have. But every unit of local self-government in its area has a duty to create jobs, create conditions for development, to keep people in those areas first. And other logic, see when someone wants, that you now have an investor, you create conditions, you have to change spatial plans, often it's a county spatial plan so general... city plan or community plan, how long does it take? And then he says, some zone is empty, so we have to prepare ourselves for an investor and we have to compete with investors, and without the state, it's very difficult to have quality competition, except in a big city where there are great interests. But in all the border areas, rural areas, you can't compete if you don't have the support of the state, if the state won't give you incentives in tax terms and if you won't prepare spatial plans, like now these European funds. We're talking, we need European funds, not these projects. And how will the local self-government unit have projects when it doesn't have the resources to invest in projects? And then will this project go away? So without that support, without that community, and especially without the state strategy and policy, to say, is, we want even development, we want in some areas, rural areas to invest in opening jobs there, and then you say where 1, 2, 3 zones. If there's such a large area of local self-government units, some big county so it has to have, create living conditions in more areas than just one central area, we have that area, so when it's filled up, it's often heard, then let's do the other zones. So there must be even development, people to stay living in their area, somewhere closer. I travel 100 kilometers, then it's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75498	Thank you. Answer me, comrade Chesek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75499	Thank you. Comrade Sanader, that's exactly why I'm talking about that 20-mile distance. I absolutely agree with your replica, but in this case, as far as entrepreneurial zones are concerned, I'm not the leader of any unit of local self-government, but what I always, when I talk to people like that, I like to ask them, not managerial, not managerial, but as a country birtian, here's to put it that way. Well, isn't it better to give someone the land you have available for kuna than to wait for 200 kuna, and the question of when will the 200 kuna come? So sometimes we can be, unfortunately I have to tell the greedy, expect bigger money, but in the long run, how successful it is. So the practice didn't show, so let's give it to the kuna now, let's give it to the kuna so somebody invests in funds, we'll hire people, people from that county, from that town, and somebody's gonna pay taxes, taxes and contributions, and eventually they'll be less hungry, and they'll be happier.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75500	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75501	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. Here, I'll start my argument with only what my colleague Chesek said, I think he got confused, but here he will correct me if he didn't. So when he talked about the distance to Orahovica – Virovitica, 60 kilometers, so... problems, perhaps Slatina that it is, is assumed to be so. Okay, so let's get back to the subject. We have before us a law that aims to lay down criteria for the expansion of entrepreneurship zones and what I can say is that I welcome above all all all all initiatives to introduce more orderly and transparent criteria for the availability of state property and also state money because the country is also an extremely important resource. According to some in Croatia, money is not property, and it is a different story and not for this debate. So introducing into this segment is certainly what is commendable. Before I proceed with my debate, I'd like to repeat some of the statistics I think he's already given to a colleague of the Dance. In Croatia, there are 346 entrepreneurial zones of which 56.6% are active and 196 and 46 almost 47 thousand employees. 27 is in the building phase of the facilities or of the licenses, which is 7.8% so we can round to 8, and 123 has no entrepreneurial activities, that's 35.5%. That's what I'm worried about. 35% is not a negligible percentage, 123 entrepreneurial zones are not a negligible number. Between 2004 and 2012 RH in these same zones, so we're talking about all 687 million 936 thousand 352 kuna, and so we have 47 thousand slightly less than 47 thousand employees. Count on how much investment is on one job. What are the problems with these zones? So first of all, I want to focus on the problems of the failure of these zones, which are the problems. I speak first of all from my own experience in my county. The first, unfortunately, problem is the inactivity of the founder. At one point, it was extremely popular to have an entrepreneurial zone. And why is that? Well, that's to have her. It's just that the founders haven't made an effort to attract entrepreneurs into these entrepreneurial zones. Of course I'm not saying it's easy, of course it's not. Now the situation in the economy is what it is, much worse than it was ten years ago but the situation wasn't always like that, and unfortunately I have the impression that some local self-government leaders are sitting in their offices, literally sitting in their offices waiting for entrepreneurs to come to them and say they want to invest. We're all aware, especially in times like this, that it's a totally missed approach. In addition, many of these business zones, namely these 35.5% in which there is no entrepreneurial activity of the Republic of Croatia, invested certain funds. Now the question would be why did she invest in these entrepreneurial zones, or why did they not generate some entrepreneurial activity? The other problem is that here's what I mentioned when I replicated my fellow Czechs, everyone would like everything. Every municipality, every city would want its own corporate zone. On the one hand, I can understand that, but in a situation where Croatia numbers a huge number of municipalities and cities whose territories are relatively small, it is simply an unsatisfactory scenario or we are leading to that certain areas are filled are defined empty and according to different objective and subjective reasons. We're also not, at least in my work and practice, I haven't found any specialized entrepreneurial zone or entrepreneurial zone with multiple visions. In what sense, then, I mentioned the same thing. The town of Djakovo, for example, has an excellent geographical position so that it could be a logistics centre for all of eastern Croatia. The town of Osijek or the town of Vukovar has a large port, therefore logistics, with the city of Osijek also having an airport, has access to highways. On the other hand, let's say Lenjska Varoš is located in the forest, which I already mentioned, where industries that are related to wood processing and wood industry can relate. You have to say Mandicvac it is Drenje Municipality if I am not mistaken, not far from the city of Djakova where the wine industry is extremely present, etc. No local leader has shown at least here's how much I have knowledge of although honor exceptions if they exist, has had enough visions to establish his entrepreneurial zone with some broad strategy and third, no one plans in the long term. Let's make a zone, let's go get one entrepreneur, he'll be, he won't be, we'll pitch, we'll invest huge money, and if it pulls back the effect remains to be seen and is often left to some higher power. Examples of bad practice are many unfortunately. We've got zones staring completely empty. So these are the zones that were built where you have complete infrastructure communal but that stares blank. We have reinvested our colleagues and colleagues, i.e. those zones simply, that is, our entrepreneurs no longer have the capacity or need for such areas. Here's an example for you: Međimurje, Međimurje, which we can call a more successful part of the Republic of Croatia, a more developed part where you have zones that simply stare at blanks. You have a situation where certain money has been invested, paid, but these zones have remained in turns or very mining forms, even so much so that even weeds are not cut on these parcels that have not received the necessary infrastructure for which the money has been paid. I can only speculate that this money was spent unintendedly in that I don't want to go into it at all because there are audits, there are institutions that need to monitor it but I can't help wondering why we spent that money. And the third thing is you all would do anything. You have a zone in the middle of nowhere, zones that don't have the infrastructure capacity to really attract someone. That's what my colleague Chesek was talking about, there were zones that the mayors, the mayors, and now that we're not talking about political references, we started to have them in order to boast with them, but that actually no added value or anyone who's realistically thinking would ever invest anything in it or come into such a zone. I must say because of the discussions we have had so far reiterated that we have brought the strategy for the development of entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia for the first time in the history of the modern Republic, and that there is, or central government, if we are to speak, a desire to consider and invest strategically. I'd still like to see more of that thinking on the side of the local self-government unit leaders. The colleagues mentioned that the government often has no hearing about the problems of local self-government units, but we can observe it on the other hand, that the leaders of local self-government units often have no hearing about government problems, that is, the easiest thing to do is blame someone else for all their problems. But it's certainly not wrong for the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Entrepreneurship to draw no one into its infrastructure zone. They also mentioned parafiscal impositions, tax policies, and I won't be able to keep it any longer, but I just want to remind myself that many parafiscal burdens have been lifted or reduced, and I don't want to count them again now, but I think the sparrows on the branch already know that. So, in conclusion, I welcome all the initiatives that introduce order in the availability of state property because land is state property, land is a very important state property that should not be given in order to glare empty as well as on deforestation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75502	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75503	Comrade Hajdukovic, you spoke about statistics, you speak excellently, you speak nicely, the theory is as great as Mr Bernardic. You mentioned zones where there's no entrepreneurial activity and there's some kind of backdrop. Here we are talking about a law that will help put the zones into operation. So do you think that some municipality or city that has some kind of zone that has no entrepreneurial activity will seek land from the state to give even land at a time when there is no entrepreneurial activity in that area. It's this law and all this time it's responsible, I'm really saying it's not good from its experience because it limits me to get land because in some zone my guy has entrepreneurial activities, I can't get land because we're talking all the time and we're talking about these unspective zones. So here this law does not speak of those in which there is no entrepreneurial activity, this law speaks of those in which there are entrepreneurial activities where normally these mayors and these cities will seek land from the Republic of Croatia to put such an investor in there to come. If this isn't land on us, we're going to lose by a model like we've had for a year or two, there's no investor waiting for a year or two. You want life examples? Let's say Matulji Municipality has investors, Americans have been waiting 6-7 years to solve this hell of a land problem and then gets land and then has to pay 10 million kunas some small municipality of the state or Croatian forests,... the forest economic basis of some kind of maquito. The Americans are gone and I think it's all coming soon. They're still waiting, but I think they'll leave. So here I'm not talking about what you're saying, what you're listing is how many zones are inactive, here we're talking about those who are active and who are active and who are looking for land, and I can't get it because these percentages are impossible to get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75504	Thank you. Answer, colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75505	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow I thank you, first of all, for your commendation and I highly appreciate you as well as anyone who in his local environment went to the election name and last name of the election and received and managed the unit of local self-government. I believe that you are more conscious than some of your colleagues, and that your entrepreneurial zone, thank God, is working. Of course there aren't only bad examples. I don't want you to get the impression from my argument that I think everything's wrong, of course there are good examples, excellent examples that are already listed, but on the other hand you can't deny me the right to wonder where these money went, these huge money, and to have a bunch of inactive entrepreneurial zones that don't serve anything. So we invested in something that we knew at first it wasn't worth it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75506	Thank you. Ante Jerolimov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75507	My colleague Hajdukovic, you spoke well. I would agree with that first sentence of yours specifically if this law had a goal, and you know what the objective of this law is, it has two objectives. It's one thing for the back to remain icy, that's the first goal of this law, and the other goal of this law is to make everything so that nothing happens. These are the two objectives of this law and they will be 100% fulfilled. Why do I tell you this? If there's no interest in investment, then nothing will happen. You're wondering, and you said that the land will remain untapped. Well, it's like there's something going on in that piece of junk right now, on that maquis, on that meadow, on the ice, or already depending on position to position. And I don't understand why we're talking about ownership here, which is important in ownership, whether it's state property, whether it's municipal property, whether it's city property. I don't think we should worry about whose property, if nothing happens, we're all the Republic of Croatia, and we should all show interest together and do something together, open new jobs, make new investments happen. And where will this investment happen if it doesn't happen in those investment areas? So I don't understand why everyone here is taking care of what happens if something doesn't happen. I think he's here to take care of what happens if something happens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75508	Answer, colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75509	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We must certainly have an interest above all in this home and in all those who are actively involved in the investment policy. And I am a witness myself, unfortunately, that it is often not an easy job and that it is not always a responsibility even on us, that we often go the same way, to those who want to make investments we often go with good intentions but other circumstances are created by investors. I agree with you fellow in some segments, but on the other hand, I also find irresponsible management and availability of state property equally unacceptable. So I agree that all land owned by the Republic of Croatia, as well as all real estate, should be put into a function which will contribute to society and economy as soon as possible. But the criteria must exist, criteria that will be equal to everything, not that someone gets easy, and someone can't get anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75510	Marijan Škurić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75511	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I would have included myself if you'd said everything very nicely, pointed out the essence of this law and this government. One thing you might do, though, is make adjustments. It is that you pointed out that to a large extent it is the founders and their inactivity that the zones have not been brought to the senses. I can get along a little in that part, but still believe that the biggest shortage is quality investors and serious investors and investments. Around this inactivity of founders, however, everyone would like to have an investment in their business zone, even if they put only one advertising board or put it on their website and each county centre has a particular agency which nevertheless includes all these potentials in its area in some part of its activity, the promotion of the part itself. Around this investor, we who are in charge as mayors can say the same thing, the mayors in their attracted areas, is that most often almost 10% of all investors who come to us in the first five minutes are blackmailing us. They're blackmailing him in a way that first offers what we need to give him for free, which we have to give to the benefits, and if not, he's going to go to someone else and that nearest zone to blackmail him back there and get something. Not everyone's here, but most of them. And that's the question of competitiveness that you pointed out. We all have to have the same conditions, so whoever gets something for free and gets everything from the state gets the support and not this year two, but already gets the support 10 years back. Nothing's happened since yesterday, that he can then give free land, so someone has to get it, give a real price to the land. So there's a lot of order to be made, and this government and this law do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75512	Thank you. Answer, colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75513	Thanks, buddy. I don't think you've done well. I'd just maybe say that if I didn't say that it's exclusive responsibility just for the mayors and the mayors, it's responsibility for those who are zones and established with the intention of not working on them. That's something else. Unfortunately, I can count it for you, but I don't think it's the place or the time to make some AIDS. Their inhabitants of their municipalities and cities should evaluate them in the elections. And that's exactly what you were talking about is what I didn't want to elaborate on, I mean when I told my colleague Jerome that they weren't always guilty, so only those who wanted to bring in the investment. There are often investors who cause problems because of different things. You've described it beautifully, so there's no point in repeating it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75514	Thank you. Goran Maric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75515	Thank you very much. Your colleague Hajduković was very rationally speaking, but I hope you will agree that the assessment of this law and its usefulness can best be assessed by the leaders of local self-government better than you and me. This law has not been delivered at all and the amendment proposal has not been submitted to the association of cities or municipalities. So if the association of cities and municipalities said this was a good law, I'd say I'd raise my hand to him. If he says he's no good, he's not useful, I can't support that law. And who of the local self-government leaders will be against the law that benefits them? Not one. But of course he objects if it harms him and is not the head of any local self-government or city or community benefit from no entrepreneur coming. So they do not sit there for them, and as you say, sit and wait. Well, entrepreneurs aren't called, entrepreneurs are created by the environment, infrastructure and they come themselves. But a lot of factors affect entrepreneurial activity. In Croatia it is a infrastructure, but in Croatia it is also political instability political. So we daily media are full of the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister's fights. In such a situation, it is political instability, tax instability, changes are permanent, security, non-payment, legal uncertainty, deadlines, disputes, outcomes of disputes, executions, blockades. A neighbor can't stop the road on his own. Well, we're still in children's diseases. But these are obstacles to entrepreneurship, and whether it's five entrepreneurial zones or 11, God forbid there's as many of them as possible. How much better the infrastructure will be, there will be more. But what concerns me personally as an economist is that there is no legal framework for the entrepreneurial zone of production. I'd give it to them. all the free and electricity and water and land can someone produce something in this Croatia [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]] But unfortunately, it's just a store and a sale. [[Upadica Batinić: Thank you, colleague Maric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75516	It's a matter of strategy first. Answer, colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75517	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank God, fellow Maric, we have recorded industrial growth in the last quarter, that is, growth in industrial production. I hope we keep recording it. So I agree with you that certainly the leaders of the local self-government units would be there to measure their assessment. Unfortunately, today, we heard very little of them in the debate, or unless I'm just wrong about one. So probably their contribution would be higher, excuse me two, we have two. Three, sorry. Here's three we heard. Okay. We've got plenty of them. But it's interesting again that they have different views on exactly the same problem. So, entrepreneurship zones have a lot. And I agree with you in part that means in the state, on the unit of local self-government it is to create an environment where entrepreneurs can exist that they should, therefore and then come themselves. However, in a situation where you have a lot of entrepreneurial zones that are mostly unfulfilled, you have to have some initiative, call, interest, interest someone to come right into your entrepreneurship zone, but not into someone else's. That's what my colleagues used to mention. And with you, I will agree that what may be the most affecting both entrepreneurship and our economy is in general payment, i.e. the security of payment, or the uncertainty of the same, or that you must issue the invoice, pay taxes on the invoice, and whether your invoice will be paid or not is already a completely different story. And unfortunately, our legislation has not yet succeeded, or even legislation may not be as much a problem as the judicial authority does not guarantee you either the quick process or the billing in the end. That's where I agree absolutely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75518	Thank you. Ante Sanader, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75519	Thank you. Here's a colleague you're in your first, a few points you've had, the first point was the inactivity of the founder. So look at the inactivity of the founder is very easy to resolve because the inactivity of the founder is resolved in the first next election. Direct elections and this inactive founder disappear, a new active and ambitious one comes. But already in your second attitude when you said you denied yourself because you said in a different attitude everyone would want everything. Every city and municipality would like to have an entrepreneurial zone. And what do they do? It is the mayor and the mayor who should create conditions for the development of entrepreneurship and that is their main activity. Everyone's fighting for their city, for their community, and that's an obligation. But the problems are big, it's not easy to attract an investor. I was the mayor, here in particular, I offered investors this publicly guaranteed purchase of land in three days, a building permit in 50 days, 10 thousand euros every day of delays. That's what some unit leader of local or regional self-government can offer. And that's why it's not good to create in this High House thesis that the zones are empty because of the inactivity of entrepreneurs and create a bad picture of entrepreneurship zones because, nevertheless, entrepreneurship zones have achieved an effect and have created good conditions and have withdrawn a number of investors. Unfortunately, it's such an investment climate that we don't have big investors. But there are very good projects and very good investors. So I think it is, you say you need to protect the state property. I belong to those vocalists and I say every city and municipality, every county that has a spatial planning, which has a GUP in that area they should be masters. I'm no longer a leader, but I think these people need to manage their territory and there's nothing state and AUDI pray for those year, two years to fight to get that land. When they've made a GUP, when they've made a spatial plan, then they need to manage that area without any state and without any AUDI or DUDI.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75520	Time, buddy. Thank you. Answer, colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75521	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I certainly appreciate your experience as mayor, so you were mayor, so you know what it is to run a local self-government unit. And what you said, therefore, is the inactivity of the founders, of course, that every mayor wants to either the mayor or the mayor wants to attract investments in his unit of local self-government and that voters should punish it means activity, or inactivity should punish and the activity should be rewarded. That's a theory, of course. Here's one of your colleagues when he replicated me said you said that theoretically nicely, but practice is different. Unfortunately, the practice is different here and we often have exceptions that confirm the rule of this bad. I'm sorry you got the impression from my hearing that I think everything's bad. No, I don't. On the contrary, as you yourself have said, there are a lot of investments, there are a lot of good examples I can also list some but I just wanted to put an emphasis on this negative part because that's what bothers me. Where did the taxpayers' money, me and you go? Where they did not encounter fertile soil, where they were not realized because of the irresponsibility of some people. So I'm not talking, I get it because I tried to bring an investor into the community it's easy. It's absolutely not easy, and you say everything you local self-government leaders can offer. But here, like his colleague Skvaric, he spoke about how entrepreneurs behave in this environment. May God not be so, and soon we have investors who will be more responsible and many of the leaders of the local self-government units who will be responsible for both public money and space and for what they have received from their fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75522	Thank you. Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75523	Thank you very much. I'll look back on the part where you said the state doesn't often hear from local self-government. I don't think there's often but there isn't at all. I haven't heard from anyone in the last 2.5 years. I've seen a single measure in favor of local self-government. I can't remember at all. Because I don't know what makes local self-government feel like a expense in this term. I told my chief that in no case is he trying to take any investor to the Ministry of Economy because it will happen to him as will his colleagues from Bakar. So, you bring an investor into one question, and then they point him where the HNS or SDP is in power. Let's say there was a damage of 42 times the price. I don't know who's here for what he's earned. He agrees to 60 euros, they sell him 10 kuna. But well, that's the way to treat investors. And what they think of us and what the system is about it I won't. 600 million kuna is not a cost, this stake has certainly returned at least 5 times as much to the state budget. It's not a expense. 600 million kuna as invested in ten years is how much this government has allocated to consultants in three years alone. If it is true that 200 million kuna is allocated annually to various consultants, consultants, etc. This could be a cost because we have no feedback from their advice and consultation. We need to get away from the fact that local self-government is a cost because they're not even undeveloped to blame for being like that. In the '90s, we didn't all leave the same positions. So after 20 years, we won't be in the same position. Some go better, some go up, but it's not their fault. And we are discriminated against by this law on the islands. The island is a four-sided mainland surrounded by sea. And if it's not more than 20 kilometers from the state, we can't even get a square of the country, and that's not our fault. And that's unfair, and that's not a new justice. It's some kind of ID.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75524	Thank you. Answer, colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75525	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I didn't say that the government has no hearing for local self-government units, but I said exactly the opposite, and you confirmed it to me in your debate. So often local self-government units don't hear from the central government who, of course, has his own problems which is most often said, they don't have problems, they deliberately obstruct it, they don't want to help, they're not cooperative. That's exactly what you're talking about. You do not want to bring an investor into the ministry because he will allegedly be referred only to units of local self-government where the members of the Kukuriku coalition are in power. It's an absolutely incorrect colleague. If I'm going to tell you about the example of my county and the investment of central government in local self-government units, then I can responsibly claim that over 80% of state investment goes to local self-government units where none of the parties to the Kukuriku coalition are in power. You want HDZ, you want HDSSB, HSS or different combinations. So they invest regardless of party membership. I have great sensitivity towards the islands, but my colleague will remind you how many states are singled out for the islands. That's exactly what we've been discussing recently in this House of Commons. I understand that there are objective restrictions on the island, that life on the islands is different than life on land, first of all, about connection and connections, but you'll also allow me to say the same thing about my end, which is just as passive as islands, which also has big problems and would be very, very happy to have such investments and treatments that the state cares about its islands, that it doesn't get it wrong, has great sensitivity for the problem of the island and island life, but life is not easy in either part of ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75526	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Boris Blazekovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75527	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy. First of all, I would like to say that my colleague Dragutin Glava spoke of the law in detail on behalf of the CNS, and I fully agree, I support his debate. Secondly, I am extremely sorry, Mr. Vice President, that you will not participate and participate in this debate because of your experience in this subject, this topic. Let me congratulate you this way on the reward you recently received in Cannes, congratulating to all of us. I'm going to talk about this whole subject but I'd turn to the importance of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. It's going to be a little easier story than the last debate. Small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is a deficient need of every particular small country, for several reasons, because of the development of the economy in general, because of the good feeling that citizens and citizens live in a country where all personal entrepreneurial creative potentials can be realized, because of the release of unsatisfactory creative potentials, entrepreneurs and all those who follow entrepreneurship but ultimately because of the release of the creative potential of the entire society. In a small country for Croatia by the number of inhabitants of the country which is a true regulator of justice and senses of equality is and must be an incentive and development of small entrepreneurship. It is hard for a resident or a resident to hold on less, to feel good if he is conscious that they are all working for several major entrepreneurs of whom he is one of the largest states. The state economy, except that it is often an unsanitary polygon for stealing and corruption, is particularly fertile in the adoption of the wrongs. political decisions in the economy resulting more or less regularly in disaster. The economy requires exclusively income decisions, as soon as policy is involved, the steep-headed spiral of non-profitability and lasting certain times of unsightly loss, and then pays for clearly citizens and citizens, and often by unlimited amounts of money, e.g. Therefore, the need for shipyards to be privatised because taxpayers could no longer bear these billions of incentives. Another anomaly of the state economy is not competitiveness in a negative sense. Which of the private entrepreneurs can compete in the public open market and who could compete in the competition and win the country at all. Large entrepreneurs are important and must not be killed by any measure but should not be encouraged by the country's title, unlike small entrepreneurs, unless strategic activities are involved. Small entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurship should also be encouraged in all possible, realistic and long-term cost-effective ways with all possible resources from all state resources. It is clear that the right of entrepreneurial activity requires a regulated rule of law. It is clear that for successful entrepreneurship a well-organised and positive environment is important. The role of the state in encouraging the development of small entrepreneurship is dry. The state is necessary in regulating fair market relations and is necessary in the control of fair competition. There is a country's non-replaceable role and it is obliged to find all possible instruments to meet and its most important roles in the economy, to enable all business entities, an equal match and to control that same match. There are in Croatia over the average tough entrepreneurs who are despite all the problems, problems, indifference, false competition, the motherhood of the state, the planting of local self-government, problem solutions and institutions and many other problems that have managed to survive and develop their economies. These entrepreneurs, i.e. companies, are the ones most interested in an equal competition and they have and must benefit from the state and the state must serve the healthiest part of the Croatian economy in order for this vital part to be a motive for all to improve, improve and raise business to as much income as possible. One of the things that should also be mentioned is the entrepreneurial climate in Croatia, not just today. It is amazing that after ten years of escape from the agreed, twenty years of escape from the agreed economy we have not freed ourselves from thinking where every entrepreneur who is rich is also a thief, regardless of how he got to wealth or how he gained it and becoming really materially rich is only possible if you are a private entrepreneur, no one who is not a private entrepreneur can become a really materially wealthy person and whoever is materially rich and is not a private entrepreneur must be exposed to the question of state, tax and investigative bodies. Entrepreneurship and business operators have only one task, which is to create profits and profits. The more someone with this entrepreneurial activity earns, the more successful the entrepreneur, the more successful the entrepreneurs must be our pride and example to others to imitate them. Croatia must enable its citizens and citizens to be materially rich in their entrepreneurial activities, to be rich is not immoral, to be rich does not mean to be a bad member of the community, to be rich means to be successful, smart, capable. We should be proud of successful and wealthy entrepreneurs, we must give them social recognition and status as we should be proud and give social recognition and status and successful artists, athletes or anyone else who rises above average. Small and medium-sized enterprises employs the largest number of employees from the so-called so-called population. the labour sector, and the right to work life from your own work, is also an element of human rights. Unemployment is not only a question of existence, but it is a matter of everyone's personal dignity, the feeling that its environment values it and should participate as an equal citizen in its country. Therefore, unemployment, especially long-term, is not only financial but every other injustice, the state must therefore ensure the conditions for the development of the overall economy by my personal conviction, especially small entrepreneurship, which can most pro-pulsoryly ensure human rights from the field of labour rights and life from its own work. Entrepreneurial zones are important incubators of small and medium-sized enterprises, they are important to entrepreneurs, but also to the local community. A well-developed and well-designed entrepreneurship zone can be a centre and many other social, cultural and sports activities of the local community. It is therefore important by the state at any level to make it possible, in a simple, transparent and fast way, to build and develop entrepreneurship in entrepreneurship areas. I'm sure the bill of this law is on the way to achieving that goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75528	Thank you. We have one replica, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75529	Comrade Blažeković, you have made little distance from the bill of amendment, but you have well touched the importance of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. However, Croatia systematically destroyed small and medium enterprises. It almost doesn't exist. You also talked about the wood industry, I'll tell you how it works in the wood industry practice in Croatia. It is produced in Gorski Kotar from the Croatian tree chair as a semi-product and cost with cheap labour and not paid labour, for example 30 euros per chair, then the chair is exported to the country of origin, for example in neighbouring Italy or Austria, at a price of 31 euros, the chair is polished abroad and re-delivered to Croatia at a price of 100 euros. All profits remain abroad and that chair is stored in an entrepreneurial zone in warehouses of the entrepreneurship zone. In fact, most entrepreneurship zones have been transformed into a warehouse for foreign small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, not Croatian ones. You also talked about the entrepreneurship climate, but the climate is partly due to entrepreneurs, or quasi entrepreneurs because it is not a sin to earn, but it is a sin to earn on behalf of others. It is not a sin to be rich or rich, but it is a great and serious sin to get rich at the expense of the state and the damage of other people, and in most cases we witness just like that. We can't call a moral entrepreneur who doesn't pay workers and owes suppliers and doesn't pay suppliers at all, it can't be a moral entrepreneur. Unfortunately, there are those, and fortunately there are honest ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75530	Thank you. Answer, colleague Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75531	Thank you very much. I didn't say a single word about the wood industry, but okay. ... About the wood industry. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Not a single word. But if it's your interest to talk about the wooden industry in the replica, I don't mind. As far as I'm concerned, I'm a little off topic, I am, because I think it's necessary to develop small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in a country like Croatia and because I agree with you that it's broken and that we've been destroying it since '90. until 2012. If you think that after 20 years anything can be solved, all possible problems that have arisen in the 1990s. By 2012, it's possible to solve in 2 years, congratulations, I'd like you to give us that magic wand. As far as your theme, or your replicas of entrepreneurs and quasi entrepreneurs are concerned, I have not spoken of quasi to entrepreneurs either. I was talking about entrepreneurship, about small and medium-sized entrepreneurship that is... for the development of the state. About quasi entrepreneurs, about people who work past the law, they really need to do this urgently, as soon as possible to care for the institutions of this country, and as we can see they've already begun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75532	Thank you, too. A deputy minister called to say the word. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75533	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. Here at the end of this debate I would like to thank you for really constructive discussions, but also allow me a few comments about the slightly less constructive part. First of all, when I talk about constructiveity, the esteemed representative of Pleshe, means the answer once again, so the register was established, and as regards the amount that was set up through the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts through the state budget in the business zone in 2013, it was 10 million kuna. Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative Klaric, I thank you for that part of the constructive part, but I also think that in your debate you spoke of two cases, the first in which you mention that you did not receive potential investors, I must say that after the talks we had, in 15.01 they are in the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, therefore received fellow potential German investors to invest in the business zone. And the second part that concerns some kind of painting you were talking about, namely, I didn't see it as a painting, but rather as a really quality working meeting that we discussed with the potential Chinese investors. I'm sorry there's no honourable counsel Shucker here, but I'm sure he'll look at the video of the end of this debate and I want to say that laughter or smile in the assembly I think there should be a lot more than a scream, some noise that tries to scare or bring down some fact. And my smile or laughter was not in any way addressed to the esteemed representative, Mr Shucker, but rather one absurdity of a situation in which this law is declared by the creation of entrepreneurial barriers, although it is actually known that it is literally a matter of introducing a single order and discipline and that is a fact. Because when we talk about the period from 2004 to the end of 2011, it is therefore invested in the entrepreneurship structure of entrepreneurship zones and the entrepreneurial support institution 1.77 billion kuna. We said it was 346 zones of which 196 is active, it has at least some economic activity, and 150 has no economic activity. And when we talk about these areas where there is no economic activity and when we look together, it's over 580 almost 600 million kunas that are invested in an entrepreneurial infrastructure that doesn't work at all. And that's a fact. Also immediately in early 2012 we began to introduce order into this particular segment. The fact is, about 45 million kunas were to say so outside unwarranted. So the units of local and regional self-government did not justify these assets. What we did in 2012, in 2013 over 35 million kuna was justified, pressure was made on these zones, so on units of local and regional self-government to justify these costs or return to the state budget and we will continue to do so. Because the primary intensity of this government since the first day of the government's mandate is to invest in those entrepreneurial zones that have truly justified their expectations. That's how it's going to be in 2014. I thank you once again for the debate and I urge you to unanimously accept the proposal for this law on amendments and additions to the Law on the promotion of entrepreneurship infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75534	Thank you too, Deputy. We have two replicas. Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75535	Dear Deputy Minister, I have made four concrete proposals for a concrete amendment. First, add under that list who manages the business infrastructure to the company d.o.o. on the 100% ownership of the local self-government unit established for the management and construction of the entrepreneurial zone. Another erases the word economically and leaves the interest of the Republic of Croatia because it makes it easier for us in the process of resolving property relations within the industrial zone. Reform those 66 percent of what we've all talked about, and you haven't commented at all now in a way that 66% of that space within the scope of the industrial zone is property-lawed and can be put into operation because for years we'll still be solving property-law relations in view of the cadastre and garland that aren't solved in the space of certain urban plans of individual zones. As for receiving a foreign investor's comment was related to it, I asked you to personally receive it and you said you would receive it personally. My director's here. Good for this law. It doesn't matter now. A concrete proposal that we have made in writing will deliver this amendment, but I would like you to read about it. Without this and this way of thinking, I think it's immeasurable to accept such a law because nothing makes it easier for us to get land owned by the Republic of Croatia, and at least 90% of the speakers here tonight talked about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75536	Thank you. Next replica, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75537	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy Minister, I hope you agree that the subjective impression of each individual is constructive and less constructive. It also depends on the understanding of the individual. It's about laughter. The truth that there are unpleasant situations here, but at least it is appropriate to laugh at today's, not this, but today's and the situation that is generally in Croatia. But maybe someone saw your laugh as a laugh, and then that's the problem, and maybe they experienced it. I didn't experience it that way, but maybe it's someone else. So let everyone experience the way he feels. You were talking about 600 million kunas dumped because some entrepreneurial zones don't work. When it comes to infrastructure, I believe that money has never been dumped in the end, but where the entrepreneurial zone works doesn't mean it's going to work in six months. Oscillations and cycles are common in economic activity. Remember the first centre in the west of Zagreb where the entire Zagreb waited three now at the entrance to enter the shopping centre, today it closes. It opens on the east side. But I'd be interested in how much the bypass cost to change both these checkouts and eat IKEA with how much and what's the effect, but what's the negative effect of all this going to be? You said 150 is inactive, and 196 is active, perhaps even of these active sexes will disappear as is the situation in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75538	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the Deputy Minister with an associate, your colleagues and colleagues. It'd be over for today. Tomorrow we will continue with the Final Proposal for the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the "Modification of HZ Infrastructure", emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 628. Have a nice day, see you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75539	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 667. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by a respected representative, Tomislav Klaric. I would like to ask the representative of the Proposer Drazen Pross to show itself on Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75540	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, Amendment No. 1 is not accepted by the following argument, Article 1 has already been defined that the founders of business infrastructure managers, including entrepreneurship zones, can also be units and bodies of local and regional (regional) self-government or companies owned by units of local or regional (regional) self-government. And without directly restricting the founding holding. But what it implies is that so-called companies for the purpose of building and managing entrepreneurship infrastructure in the entrepreneurship zone can also be owned by units of local or regional or regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75541	Amendment holder, respected representative Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75542	Since it is already in practice in practice, the entrepreneurship company is specifically listed as being registered as such, and in the part of its activities there is construction, development, improvement of the entrepreneurship infrastructure in this formulation too broadly written. I believe that this formulation as I have suggested needs to be written, nothing interferes with the law itself. And I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75543	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement on the amendment of Honored Representative Tomislav Klaric No. One the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Let's go to Amendment No. 2nd of the same respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75544	Amendment No. 2. is not accepted and this is because Article 3(2) defines the very clear criteria that units of local or regional self-government must fulfil in relation to the activation of the available area of all entrepreneurship zones within their space. Namely, a claim for the donation of land owned by the Republic of Croatia for the construction, i.e. the extension of the business zone, is submitted by the unit of local or regional self-government as the owner, i.e. the founder of all entrepreneurship zones in its area, and for this reason it is necessary to establish the total amount of the available area of all entrepreneurship zones within the units of local and regional self-government in order to determine the economic justification of land donation at the level of the entire unit of local and regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75545	Amendment holder, respected representative Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75546	I believe that such a formulation of the article limits the units of local and regional self-government in the application for the allocation of land by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I appeal to everyone, especially the mayors, the captains, that this is the formula I have proposed in this amendment to accept. It is not possible to look at the sum of all areas of entrepreneurship zones on the premises of units of local self-government or regional self-government simply because it is impossible to respect this 66% criterion. This gives me the right team more and the debate we had here at the Parliament when most MPs on both the left and the right highlighted this problem. In this way, as proposed, each business zone has its specificity, especially for the reasons of unresolved property-legal relations in the area covered by urban plans. This proposal proposed by my amendment suggests that the area which is property-legislatively solved equipped infrastructure can immediately move towards the realization of fill-up with investors and cannot possibly get into the collection of the total activated surfaces what is not dealt with by property-legislative means. Each business zone is by itself specific. Unable to limit the proximity of another existing zone which is currently not filled. For this, it gives me the right and what I was saying when I passed this law eight months ago, we're already making changes to this law. It is simply not possible to meet this 66% criterion to see each zone for itself, and in the SDP debate, you mentioned perspective and not perspective zones. If we put in the same package and the other one is impossible to comply with this 66% criterion, each zone should be seen for itself. I'm asking for a vote and I'm asking you to support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-19-0.u75547	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment to the 2nd Honored Representative, Tomislav Klaric, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a decision. Final bill, please come forward. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes 78 for, 14 votes against and 9 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the promotion of entrepreneurship infrastructure in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Dear fellow MPs, respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament. We continue at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament, 12th session. We are starting in line with the agenda, and now it is the turn of the final draft law on the confirmation of the guarantee treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the "Modification Project of HZ Infrastructure", emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 628 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws, Articles 194 to 202. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final draft law was carried out by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Zdenko Antešić, Deputy Maritime Minister, Transport and Infrastructure. Here you are, Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
