ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67912	My colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We're going back to work. We will discuss - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on fiscal responsibility, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 499. Proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. I ask if the proposaler's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. The Honorable Deputy Minister of Finance, Boris Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67913	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here I would briefly sum up even though this is a second reading, some history of the Fiscal Responsibility Act. So, the Law on fiscal responsibility was first adopted by the Croatian Parliament at its meeting on 23 November 2010. That law defines a fiscal rule and introduces an obligation to produce, a declaration of fiscal responsibility with the aim of ensuring and maintaining fiscal responsibility, transparency and medium-term and long-term sustainability of public finances. So, we are in November, so last year we resorted to amending the Fiscal Responsibility Act, because the fiscal rule that was actually laid down by that law was, in fact, not respecting certain cyclical elements, meaning this long-term part of the recession, and we are also talking to a colleague from the European Commission, and by the fact that we have joined the EU, we have decided to bring our fiscal rule into line with mainly the rules that exist currently in the EU. So the proposed amendments and additions to the current Fiscal Responsibility Act, I'll just say in short, so what are those remarks that we heard here in the first reading, and we've applied and we've respected, I mean a lot of those remarks. The first reference was to the part that, in that first reading, it was that the current fiscal rule was replaced by the existing rule because it was not, as I said, taking economic cycles and the prevailing impact of economic growth, and thus the European Commission was actually in its recommendations and stressed that one of the differences, one of the reasons was actually a deficit and a long-standing recession which this is now the fifth, not to say the sixth year. So, the current rule, it is important to say that we have now and in line with Directive 85 which defines the standards of fiscal planning that, they say, should be based on more realistic macro-economic budgetary projections. It is also clear in this work in the document when certain planning is carried out that the economic and budgetary projection mark should be based on more realistic projections and that all these deviations between, not to say by the European Commission on one hand, which proposes certain figures, that these derogations must be documented and clearly explained. What's the fiscal rule now? It says that the structural balance, i.e. the deficit or surplus of the general budget, which does not include cyclical economic effects and one-off and temporary measures, expressed in the gross domestic product, will be achieved according to the adjustment plan to achieve the medium-term budgetary objective, with the growth of general budget expenditure not exceeding the reference potential growth rate of GDP increased by the expected price increase, with the structural balance of account according to the European national account system, etc. ESA methodology. In this part, the emphasis here is on this structural balance that needs to be made certain adjustments, not according to the current work where it has mainly focused on this nominal balance where it is said that in structural, it has to be thrown out of it one-off measures, temporary measures and must respect the cyclicity that is happening in the economy. Also, the plan of adaptation to the decision is determined by the Government, which is very important when it comes to not breaking those Maastricht criteria, that the decision-making plan is determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of achieving the medium-term budgetary objective, and at the recommendation of the Council of the EU, with at least 0.5% of GDP among the annual cuts in the structural balance. There was also the comment of a colleague, distinguished colleague Dalic last time that we had no numerical rules, and that was in the first reading, and we have now added that part of the numerical rule, it is also defined according to the directives that he asks that it must be at least 0.5% of GDP. This part when we talk about the structural balance, only one brief piece of information that most EU countries are currently in possession of their own rules and has a definition of structural balance. So the first countries to go with the structural balance were Germany and Austria. Today, the majority of 18 to 20 countries already own in their fiscal rules the definition of structural balance, in structural deficits that are not counted against the national accounting plan but according to the ESA methodology, means a methodology that can compare all EU countries, so that they can actually compare the structural balance. In order for you to get the ratio of what it is, according to some recommendations from the European Commission, our current structural balance according to some projections, if we consider it nominal in 2013 to be 5.4 or that they told us for next year, or for this year 2014, that the nominal should be about 4.6%, your structural balance is 4%. So, he and they moved according to their recommendations to go from 4% structural balance 2014 to 3.1% in 2015 or around 2.4% in 2016, if they also consider that structural balance is done and much stronger correction is not included in what is very important for temporary measures and one-time measures and that only through this structural balance can the other criterion from Maastricht be stabilised and this is the management of public debt. Here is defined within this rule and the medium-term budgetary objective as one component where continuity is always talked about, and in discussions with the Commission and partners, we always talk about the medium-term budgetary objective that says that it must be minimum for three years, so it is defined by the directive itself and it is set that this structural balance, meaning we are not talking nominally about the balance that is mainly here in front of this House of Commons, is mostly adopted by the nominal. I'm talking about a nominal balance according to a national accounting plan that's defined according to cash flows. Here we are talking about the structural balance according to the ESA methodology and that such a structural balance ensures that the deficit of the general budget is not greater than 3% and that the public debt should not be greater than 60%. The medium-term budgetary objective, according to the EU Commission's recommendations, is also established in this part at Croatia's level within three years by 2016. It is a fundamental change, and I said that according to the Fiscal Compact and most of the specific situations currently in the EU, the way it puts more emphasis on structural rather than nominal deficits. In short, I would also like to say what the European Commission said in its assessment as one of the reasons for the increase in deficit levels. First, they said that it was definitely a five-year recession period if it was to run public finances at a time when five years of constant incomes fell, when it was simply more than 10, 11% in that five-year period when it was said that it was more than 2% a year when it was taken on average, these are exceptional circumstances, and regardless of everything, it's very difficult to manage if all the negative effects of the economy are channeled in that part, the economies are reflected in public finances. And they recognized that part as a consequence and in that part when they made recommendations they set a three-year period so that they could stick to this medium-term budgetary objective. What they also stated was that the cause of the increase in the deficit level was the takeover of debts in shipbuilding where they were through this part of the deficit as we were telling you here in 2011 in the national accounting plan when the deficit amounted to about 15 billion kuna. you know according to the ESA methodology when we made fiscal notification according to EUROSTAT when EUROSTAT said that in 2011 the deficit was 7.8% where this part of the shipbuilding restructuring that will continue this year and next year was included. You see the amounts of subsidies for part of the restructuring and in the budget so that they and that part accepted that this part also affected the increase in deficits. Also, what the European Commission acknowledged in the government's measures was that there were significant measures to encourage the economy with the aim of discharging the private sector. Here you have discussed many times the reduction of health insurance contributions from 15% to 13%, which is somewhere more than 2 billion kuna, and the non-taxation of reinvested profits where we said that about a billion, a billion and 300 million kuna certainly affected us in 2013 that we do not have that share of income in the budget and where the European Commission has acknowledged that these measures were significant for the economy, significant for the economy. But what is visible at present in the economy can be seen on two sides, perhaps the economic downturn would be much more and more, and not as much as we say today that it might end maybe this year of 0.7% rather than that it might be either 2 or more percent, that these measures by the Government that have affected the disbursement of a part of the economy might be even bigger, but they said that it certainly affected the budget and that, especially in 2013, this deficit that will be within this House of Commons it and adopted around 16 billion kuna that, apart from that part of 3 billion health care. The revenue side is expected and has shown the effect of incentives for the economy. Also, what is certainly a great burden this year in 2013 was in the budget were also one-off payments in the budget. You know that we are bonds when we are a member of the EU that 1% of GDP must be paid annually in the budget, so we were in 2013 half a year 0.5% somewhere around 1.8 billion kunas of one-off payments. In 2014 this will be around 1% of GDP and thus continuously means around 3.6 billion kuna will be one-off payments to the EU budget. This is certainly when during this year's recession in the five-year period and when you don't have some sort of thing on the revenue side to correct such one-time payments certainly significant pressure on the budget is as much as you reduce, and this will tell you that in these two years as regards the mass of salaries only in that part of healthcare over a billion and 200 million kunas are lower wage expenditures in two years from 2011 to 2013, about a billion and 200 million kuna in that period are lower and an absolute amount of expenditure on salaries, and about 700 million are lower material expenditures and about a billion kunas are less subsidies. You see in that part of those three items are about 3 billion kuna, when we talk about expenditures. However, the payment, the payment in the budget, amounts to $ 3.8 billion and not to say that it compensates you for all certain savings that you actually made in two years. So that part of the European Commission is also payments to the EU budget and national co-financing projects say they did not recognise them in that part so that they could exclude them for this part of the heavy pressure on the spending side. And their recommendations are that the target of the nominal deficit is, here I said that 2014 is about 4.6%, 3.5% in 2015 and 2.7% in 2016 respectively, i.e. that it corresponds to this structural deficit that, then this nominal turns it into this structural one, that it is 0.5% in 2014, 0.9 in 2015 and 0.7 in 2016. So the Council has also set a deadline while the government will make a decision since 30 April 2014, the government will have to take certain measures, so to speak. The effects... to report in detail to the European Commission on the consolidation strategy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where in this document, it is said here that this document will also present what measures and emphasis it will be, as I said, be on this structural deficit and every 6 months will report on how much progress it is, how much we have actually managed to end this part of the correction. What the European Commission has stated is that even if such fiscal consolidation is achieved, which is required for the Republic of Croatia at some level of 2.3% of GDP, it means around 7 billion kuna that this will certainly affect economic growth. And they said in that part, according to their projections, that in 2014, that is why it will be the continuation of the recession year because such a strong fiscal consolidation in 2014 must have effects on both economic activity and economic activity in Croatia, and that it will certainly be and that is why they have not said and put that amount of 2.3% of GDP in order to compensate for the negative effects of fiscal consolidation that will certainly affect budget revenues. Here I would say in short so, meaning the fiscal rule which is now more emphasis on the structural deficit, is more based on esametology, meaning the methodology of the national accounts of the European Union rather than on the national accounting plan. This fiscal rule is in line with both the European Commission's recommendations. A certain adjustment plan has been defined, meaning a government decision that must be made. This document and the macroeconomic and budgetary projections needed to the European Commission and this High House in the adoption of the budget must elaborate the differences between the projections given in this part of the Commission in relation to the government projections, means which will be documented and which I should not always say there are views but should not be on the opposite sides. So this part of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, although we are expecting certain benefits by entering the European Union, and that is why we are on that single market, will definitely require, in this first year, full membership not to say a stronger fiscal consolidation that should be achieved in the long term, that this medium-term budgetary objective be to get out of this procedure in 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67914	I thank the Deputy Minister. Now we move on to replicas. Martina Dalic was the first to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67915	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy Minister, I suppose the word fiscal consolidation and reform are the two most frequently mentioned words in the Croatian Parliament. However, you said that this concrete law, the Fiscal Responsibility Act, is changed because the existing rule is such that its application could deepen the economic crisis in Croatia. The existing rule requires that general government expenditures be reduced by 1% of GDP each year. That's exactly what the adjustment plan is. 4,6, 3.5 in 2015, 2.6 in 2016 So nothing is actually achieved by the amendments to this existing law and there is no reason to change the existing rule because if the existing rule had been respected we would not have come into this situation if the adjustment that the European Union has prescribed had been as harsh as you interpreted. Because if the rule was respected in 2013 and budget expenditures were reduced by 1%, the share of 1% in GDP would neither be this deficit nor this adjustment would be so sharp. Therefore, I would only invite you to obey the laws. And when Croatian laws are respected, things in Croatia will be much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67916	In line with the reply, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67917	Thank you. Well, as I said in the opening section, this part of the fiscal rule based mainly on the expenditure side of the budget is one that I do not say a model that was present in some members of the European Union, but most of the countries have said so in the introduction, it left it for this very reason that it did not take into account the structural deficit and the connection with public debt. So this methodology which is now, I must say, is also more demanding because it does not include temporary one-time measures which probably when you have on the cost side only spending reduction can include certain one-time measures this measure excludes and also acknowledges one part of the economic recession. So this model that is now in line and most of the countries in the European Union that enter this fiscal compact accepts this part of the structural balance, this part is present in the European Union as you said, but most countries are leaving it because they considered that the long-term, medium-term fiscal, means those projections are being achieved more thoroughly through the structural balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67918	There is also Branko Vuksic at the opening exhibition of the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67919	Dear Mr. Lalovec, it would be much more instructive to talk about the causes, not the consequences. Whatever methodology we apply to macroeconomic projections, we come to the same conclusion, we're in trouble and we owe it to Greece. When you talked about the cause of the deficit and then you said that the deficit was caused by a long-term recession, that this was the conclusion in the European Commission. However, most of the countries we like to compare with came out of recession. We fell asleep in that recession. When we faced a recession in Croatia in 2007, members of the Kukuriku coalition then said that most of the blame for the fall in GDP lies on Croatian authorities. So that's when it was clearly spoken and pointed to the guilty person or those responsible, and I also think that today we should talk about why the existing law was not respected and to see what caused this five-year recession, the six-year recession, and how these consequences were solved, because that's the only thing. You're as well-compatible as here, and now we've written it all down, put it on paper, and it's going to be all right. And so far, we've said the same thing, and last year, we've been saying what I'm going to explain in the opening statement on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67920	Now let's listen to Deputy Minister Boris Lalovec's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67921	Thank you. Dear Representative, the fiscal rule for 2012 has been accepted, so it's come true. But what you're saying is, I've been trying to say all along that this is the key problem, and the causes mean that I also said that all the negativity that happened came together over public finances in 2013. One of the reasons is certainly health deficits, and certainly one cause is the extremely poor situation in the economy from 2008 to 2013. Simple companies and this part of economic growth that was mainly based on transport infrastructure and infrastructure projects, the economy in 2009, 2010, 2011, simply more when that part of public finances was trying to bring about consolidation simply that part of the economy, you see all construction companies and this part unfortunately a certain part and industry and you know the problem and CEFTA, you know the problem..., so there are key problems. The causes of all the problems in public finances and the sustainability of public finances cannot be without a stable economy, and a stable economy cannot be without industry and that is what we simply need to see that we can no longer live on the renting economy, that we can only live by selling some real estate to foreigners, that we simply collapsed an industrial base. And that's what we should see what the moments are, and it scares me the most when we talk about the decline in industrial production. We know that we have also restructured shipyards and that in this part, but industrial production is the key to the solution of everyone, not only public finances, but also this part of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67922	The replica also stands for a colleague, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67923	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, so I'll start here where you left off. Industrial production at 12 months dropped 2.8% and there's your answer to everything. But what I am interested in, before this debate will be more time today through replicas and individual debates, will you stick to the provisions of this new law when you draw up this budget rebalancing. First of all, I am referring to Article 3 and Article 4, because some of the laws that we have discussed in the Parliament over the last few days are not in line with this Article 3 and Article 4, and it is very important for them to put forward, in this way, the future restructuring of the budget. But it is very interesting how you like to call for shipbuilding, but you have a shipbuilding in the small you created yourself, and these are guarantees to Croatian railways in 2012 and 2013. In 2012 and 2013, you gave over 2 billion kuna guarantees to HZ which you will have to show as a deficit of the state budget for ESO 2010, if not this year you will have to show them in 2015, 2016. So that's an additional 2 billion that will increase the government budget deficit. And what we can do here is we can fight here one way or another, but those who fill the state budget don't mean anything to them. I think at the moment when the finance minister said at the first rebalance that he would change the fiscal rule then unfortunately the third time we came here today, and now it's white as the dawn that the deficit of the state budget was artificially created in 2012, because it can't explode the government budget deficit in one year for nearly 10 billion kuna. It's increased practically almost 100%, and that's the real problem. So, in order to show some kind of apparent fiscal consolidation, you've fooled yourself, and we've come to where we are today. But I repeat, my key question is whether this law will apply to this budget rebalance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67924	Deputy Lalovac, respond to this line as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67925	Thank you. I must say that this part should certainly be respected and that you cannot make..., especially long-term decisions because these are decisions that will apply to three-year periods, that they must have, that they have with them and fiscal projections and that that is what, not only will we have to present to the Commission and the legislative and when these laws will come. So they must certainly be consistent with this part. And about this part of the railroad, that's right, so according to our assessment when we're changing coverage, when we've changed the national accounting plan compared to the ESO, which is now according to our European methodology and when we're doing fiscal notation, we've entered this part and the HRT. So they've changed both the State and HRT and HZ-Infrastructure sectors, and for example they've kicked out the State Agency for Bank Rehabilitation because they think that part of the money isn't budgetary. As you know, it's part of the money that banks actually pay. So in these methodologies, when you talk about guarantees and Croatian railways, there will certainly be, not now in this year, but also in other years, methodologies that will be valued. And all of their effects, not just railways, but you know that this part and outside of budget funds and roads and water are actually one part of the state that participates in this deficit. So we can always talk about the deficit of being alone when you're talking about the budget, but certainly that's what we're most focused on here talking about the central state deficit where we can always say that it's the only kind of health problem but also the deficits that create that I don't say outside budget funds, roads, water, but there will certainly be railways in this part.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67926	Now let's listen to the replica of my colleague Kresimir Bubal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67927	Thank you very much. Mr Lalovac, you said in your report that the European Commission has detected that the cause of the deficit is a five-year recession in the Republic of Croatia. But the key question is what is causing the recession in the Republic of Croatia. These are missed policies and HDZ governments, but also the SDP. Today, we have the Fiscal Unresponsibility Act, but fiscal irresponsibility. And I ask you a question we have so far had the law for the past three years, but who has been punished under that law in the Republic of Croatia? No one. But what needs to be changed when we talk about the spending side we spend unreal. We need to frame the expense side. However, the decline in the production of gross social product, exports of industrial production, are all macroeconomic elements that have a significant impact on the development of the Republic of Croatia or on the fall of the Republic of Croatia. And it is when we talk about measures to encourage the economy of measures to stimulate the economy. Because all macroeconomic indicators indicate that the economy is falling. But what concerns the projected budget in the first budget projection and in the 2013 budget was that the deficit would be 10 billion. In the end, it's 70% higher than or 17 billion. You've been doing rebalancing for 12 months. But you have a lot of local administration units where it's impossible to rebalance, where the official is one option, and representatives of the council are another option. And you will have the punishment of the representatives of the units of local and regional administration regardless of their will, i.e. The will of the mayor himself, the mayor or the mayor himself. Therefore, this legal solution will not offer a solution, and people expect a solution, expect a better consumer basket, expect a better life. But this law certainly does not offer. However, it offers even greater fiscal irresponsibility because there is no political responsibility in Article 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67928	Replication response and Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67929	Thank you very much. Well, you asked more questions. I'll just maybe on this last thing you said about political responsibility to have. So in this law there is if you see, there is political responsibility when we talk about ministries, it means when we talk about ministries and when we talk about the responsibility of those who need to fulfil that form of fiscal responsibility to public companies, there is no responsibility, and that is what we were actually talking about last time about the responsibility of local leaders to punish him through this law. Because that's what we are, you know, there's a constitutional lawsuit of associations and cities who have said this law, that punishing local leaders is not fulfilling fiscal responsibility through this law and that there is a constitutional lawsuit. And because of this, the part is part of the move of political responsibility under this law, the statement of fiscal responsibility should not be there, but should be dealt with by another law, by the law on likely local self-government and in these areas. So I'm just being sued constitutionally and in fact what was in practice in that part and inconclusive because that part of the responsibility of local leaders has been removed from this law. However, there is responsibility for returning in this part of responsibility when we talk about individual ministries,... It also means when we talk about the responsibility of companies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67930	Replica, colleague Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67931	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy, since you probably don't believe what you're saying is an extraordinary defense of this amendment to the law. You've actually given us an explanation now why so far the law has not been respected, which are all the elements that he has not respected and in principle said that he will not be subject to the existing law of any sanctions for those ministers who have violated the Fiscal Responsibility Act. Here is my colleague Schuker, it seems to me that he was the finance minister when this law was initiated and passed in the first phase and he was generally the most adopted to tame the insubordinate ministers by the portfolios not to spend too much money or to spend more than their budget guaranteed. We are witnessing that we have violated this law in government resolutes, so the Ministry and the Government themselves. And now you're saying that political responsibility is being lifted because local self-government and regionally filed a constitutional suit. Please! Well, that's too funny to believe. So the constitutional suit wasn't even solved as far as I could tell. So I don't see why she'd take her clothes off. It's being removed to bring the post-festum into line with what was broken in the first phase. And I think, first of all, that according to the applicable law, we should do what is necessary and that those who have broken it should respond, and then when a new law is passed, if it has to be passed at all. I don't think so at all, because, realistically looking at you, you're in your argument in the opening statement, in some way, initiating that fiscal consolidation will be resolved by this law. Well, I'm convinced that as an expert, you don't believe in it, but that you know as well as we do that this is a law that takes down political responsibility so that it can be violated in advance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67932	The replica matches Deputy Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67933	Thank you. So I'm saying, I don't know how to answer a part of this question. The statement of fiscal responsibility is, you are probably a local leader, you know when you fill in that form to refer to the pattern of this part where certain criteria have to be met and if certain things have not been respected, certain procedures can be initiated. But when we talk about responsibility, it means responsibility, because here it's also about the duty to define that it's not too much to be in charge of local leaders, so you know that it's defined by other laws. There are also certain limits in the Budget Law until certain local administration heads can be limited. So here are completely two different works, but what we said all the time is that part should be solved through other legal mechanisms because these other legal mechanisms, such as funding, may be to open the Law on financing the local community and the Law on the establishment of the local community. These are key laws in resolving the political responsibility of local leaders. A declaration of fiscal responsibility sets out criteria within which not only central government should be laid down but also local authorities in order to have long-term sustainable public finances. So this law, some countries put it in the Constitution, like Italy and I think Spain, means this part of the fiscal rules. But you see how many articles it contains, so it just sets up frames, through it you can't have a resolution methodology right now setting up frames, and from other laws you can solve what you're looking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67934	The last replica, respected Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67935	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy, you've explained the technical reasons for the existence of deficits and the increase, or the growth of deficits. And you said the main reason was the long-term recession of the deficit. That reminds me of an explanation similar to the one that the stake is wet because it rains. But you can't influence the rain, but economic policy can have a huge impact on the recession. Economic policy is not neutral and powerless compared to the economic situation in its country. She's very powerful. But it is not clear that fiscal burden has become greater than fiscal capacity. It can't be seen that we are in a period of fiscal exhaustion. They are not seen and they do not want to see structural problems for Croatian economies to be ruled by cartels, oligopoli, monopolies, alliances. That there is no right entrepreneurship, that the entrepreneur is the only one who has less than 10, 15% of the work with the state in his income. It's a little bit like that. Or that they're not oligopolies and these. It is unrecognizable and does not want to be admitted that there are financial crises in Croatia, of course. But the banking system has transferred all the crisis to the real sector and to the citizens. It cannot be boasted about the stability of the banking system by the system that has 20% of the outstanding claims, but it can if it is transferred to all citizens by increasing interest rates and to the real sector that is still living. This can't happen anywhere. It can happen in Croatia. If that were to happen in any modern and sovereign state, a new Remetinec would be made. And what you're talking about is 2 billion new detachments in the EU, so one of your government's vice presidents is just talking about new projects and withdrawing funds from the EU and no kuna has been withdrawn. And he's not talking about getting fruit, and he's really pulling it out of the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67936	And this replica corresponds to Deputy Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67937	Thank you. So you have also asked one crucial question, the economic model and the functioning of economic growth. So we can open up before the economic crisis as well as what the model of economic growth was based on. Funding low-building, financing of housing. When that part ended, we began to build in 2009 halls with which we do not know what we are going to do today, but they are burdening the budget. All the halls are on budgets, we're paying interest, we're paying the principals. That was in 2009. Before that were road construction, low construction, high construction, etc. There is one part where the state was certainly due to the development of transport infrastructure that part should do, however, what you are certainly right was the exceptional gambling of a certain part of a private investor in real estate businesses, unfortunately in that part of renting that we still have a very high share of the Real Estate Business Fund. I'd like to hear it here today if it's one of the key models why banks can't continue to finance it. Because those values are still in their balance sheets. And how can we solve the frozen assets to start again there, they turn back to financing the real sector but not to the real sector of real estate business, but to the real sector of the processing industry. Because if you come to the processing industry, it's hard to get credit, but the loans were made for real estate businesses. And that's also one of the key reasons why our economy can't, let's just say in this five-year period, we can't get out. A very similar thing happened to the Spanish. They have airports where no one lands. So, a very similar model why both us and the Spanish in this part of it are hard to come out because we have this load of real estate that remains frozen.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67938	The word is now being reported by the respected representative Boro Grubisic on behalf of the HDSSB club. Let's hear what it's about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67939	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, given that at a similar time we had a break yesterday I would say HZ Cargo 1, today the situation has been significantly changed and there are serious needs to seek a break, let's say in connection with HZ Cargo 2 in view of the news published and we have it in English from Romanian sources that last night the owner of GRAMPET Gruia Stoica, who was the main participant of the Croatian Railways tender HZ Cargo in connection with the purchase of HZ Cargo. Given the situation that's happening with the 3.5 thousand HZ Cargo employees, I think even though yesterday it was worth a break and a debate about it, let's say by the name HZ Cargo 2. I've been looking for a break for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67940	Labourists?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67941	Thank you very much. For the same reason we've been looking for a break for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67942	HDZ?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67943	Same reason we're looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67944	Okay. If we set a break every time the police arrest someone, we'll never end up on the agenda. Ten minutes. We are now returning to regular work, discussing the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fiscal Responsibility. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, the Honorable Damir Cain will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67946	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm a little distracted, but it's hard to do. What do you say? Logic was never our strong suit. But you still see caution never enough. That's how the Romanian DORH works, and so should the Croatian. And no one in the government could have known what the problem Stojka or Stojko had with the law in Romania.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67947	My colleague Cain, we're done here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67948	She could also check the balance sheets of his companies and if they're serious and they finally said here's Stojko you're unserious and your offer won't be accepted. But it didn't happen to the INA or the bank. But let's let it go now, let's go to this law as it is called, about fiscal responsibility. I'll pick up where Mr. Lalovac stopped, which is what we're all less about, or what you've all been talking about through the replicas. I would very much like to be wrong, but the odds are just not favorable, I'm not going to tell the authorities, but to all of us, the economy, it doesn't matter now to whom. And it's probably never been more complex than those war years, and I think we can agree on that. And let me just say that in October 2008, the total number of employees in Croatia was a million 547 thousand, in October 2013, million 371,000, and that's a fall of 176 thousand 680 if someone is particularly interested in the data. In 2008, there were a million 241 thousand, October 2013, a million 133 thousand, a fall of 108 thousand. Employees in craft 2008-268 thousand, October 2013 212, down 56 thousand, and in agriculture the number of employed 37 thousand was now 24 in October, which was a decline of 12 thousand 398. And the biggest drop in employment was in the processing industry 55 thousand, in the 45 thousand store and in the construction industry 29 thousand 800. Where did people get jobs? There was an increase in health care, education, social care and normal at the hotel. One who, on the other hand, will say the same thing before the deputy minister said that in the last two years, those 7.8 billion kunas have not been placed in the economy, is also not telling the truth. But I agree that in no way is enough. We are talking about what Mr. Lalovec is talking about in the budget rebalancing where the deficit is likely to have to be cut by those 7 or 7.5 billion kuna and from 6.3% to 4.6%, respectively. And it will be a huge sacrifice for many. It's understandable, too, that at this point if nothing else is kept pay. Well, we have gentlemen yesterday we talked about this 300 thousand people who are in a blockade, 300 grand. In a year, that number has increased by 55,000 or 6 billion kuna and that these blockades of individuals will reach an amount of 24 billion kuna. Individuality with 42 billion kunas fell to 33 billion kunas in business entities. Clearly, above all, because of a pre-fashion settlement that has helped many as an institute, it must have been well imagined, however, that some abuse is obvious. And this with related societies that are happening today in Zadar, Pula, Zagreb does not know throughout the Republic of Croatia simply becomes one cartoon of justice, law, honesty and, in that case, our DORH should probably do as the one in Romania does. When we talk about the budget, today we should present the guidelines of the rebalancing, speak openly where they will be saved amongst other things, and where income, concessions, the benefits of the benefits, payment control etc., etc. will be increased. Probably, probably all those cuts will be painful but we just have nowhere to go. And that's why this law, and to save those salaries, to save those pensions, to unload the economy, should actually be supported. What is the basic intensity of this law that everyone before me was talking about? So, the goal is consciousness, meaning the gross social budget deficit to 3% of gross domestic product and that public debt does not exceed the limit of 60% of GBP. And in order to achieve that medium-term budgetary objective for each Member State, this Europe sets out an adjustment plan and introduces a provision that the annual growth of general budget expenditure should not exceed the reference potential growth rate of the gross social budget, allowing exemptions for certain categories of expenditure. And if a Member State misses the ceiling or public debt, then it is clear that this procedure is being initiated which is now under way. That it will not be easy to testify and these inscriptions during today or I don't know which day the Bundes Bank is openly saying that before they ask for the assistance of other countries, they are talking about this latest analysis of the situation in the European Union given by the Bundes Bank means asking them to simply try these problems and additional money to look within their borders and they are calling for the property to be higher than in the countries providing assistance compared to the GDP. But no matter what, I want to believe that it won't go towards taxing that property. We certainly need something else, we need one consensus, about Europe we have achieved it, about NATO also, about corruption there is more or less DORH, we have nothing to agree on because the agreement is known to end this, but we could agree on some budgetary policy, difficult, it will be difficult to achieve the development measures. The problem is in this country and when in one term what we all know you have 6 election cycles and when you don't know how to satisfy politics and on the other hand the economy, the social. So in these four years, we're going to have one parliamentary election, one presidential, twice European, one local election, and there's a referendum, maybe there's two more, or I don't know how many, for one, there's supposed to be enough signatures, but I believe that as such it won't happen. This Law also introduces the obligation to make declarations of fiscal responsibility or the application of the law, also extends to companies owned by the Republic of Croatia as well as local self-government. Why? Because, in some ways, they are indirectly potential users of these European funds. When we talk about the Law, it was previously resolved, just a little bit to find it, Article 11 yes, where political responsibility was sought by the head of state or local self-government in cases where it was found that the Head of Budgetary, Extra-Procedural User or Unit of Local or those regional self-government violated the provisions of this Act. At that time, he would normally have to offer his mandate to the prime minister, the president, the Prime Minister or his mandate to make available to the body that appointed him. Of course it never worked, it never, it can't even work no matter what the situation between elected leaders on one side and the council. But what is inexecutable needs to be changed and not to talk about may be criminal but also criminal responsibility. What offends me is when we talk about these violating provisions that these fines are between 5 and 25 thousand kunas in this case are rudely small. Yesterday we had the Tourist Inspectorate Act, so look what the fines are like. Everywhere else there are penalties of dragons and here it turns out that "the crow's neck doesn't take out" or that we simply want to protect ourselves in some way. It's as clear as everyone said before me that what's important is how to start an economy, how to get under quotes, who, when it comes to the order of the bull, gets the same economy in some way the wings, the state is certainly important, unforgivable. Local self-government is important, important inescapable banks as well as economics themselves. There is a clear question of where investments are, where incentives are, what kind of social justice, which is budgetary policy. I even claim that today it is harder to run a small economy, a small company than to be a worker in that same company. And when we talk about these economic parameters, more or less, we all know what opportunities the country is on, the gross social product unfortunately has not grown, industrial production is also in some way in decline, trade has fallen slightly after two months in November last year, it recorded real growth, tourism still records some more overnights, transportation of passengers and goods, construction is in stalemate. When we talk about basic price aggregates, however, this minimal inflationary pressure at the end of last year affected that prices may be lower. When we talk about the labour market, employment-unemployment at the level is 20% in 2002, in wages due to the extremely low inflation rate, however, the trend of the minimum annual average wage growth continues among those receiving it and that I am now not talking about relations with abroad and, like that, foreign direct investment, which is unfortunately for the first three quarters at the level of '99. A year. We all agree that one of these laws that has been passed in 2010 is needed, that heads should be put together, it will be difficult, but clearly without one greater responsibility no one in this country is well written.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67949	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas now. The first came from the respected Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67950	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Comrade Cain, you said that the circumstances were never harder to lead the country than the Homeland War and in particular number 2 that you would support this law because it would lead to the stabilisation of Croatia's deficits, i.e. to the introduction of deficits in some of our acceptable frameworks. I don't agree with either one of them, actually today is no problem running the country at all, it just needs brains and courage, smartness to know what moves should take and the courage of those moves to take. You have more strength than you need. All your decisions here are voted by the 2/3 majority, except for the Constitution there's some bargaining and guessing, but it's always 2:1 when the vote is. And I don't see any problem with running the country at all. As far as the Fiscal Responsibility Act is concerned, in my opinion it was unnecessary in 2010 as it is today, unnecessary law, because we actually have political garneries by law want to amnesty ourselves, they think the law will ensure the fall of the deficit. What are we talking about? A concrete example within two minutes of not wasting my time, a question of Split's hospital. It needs 70 million to function, the state sends it 50, and the state by law guarantees the achievement of all healthcare rights to which 70 million must be spent on the exercise of these rights by law guaranteed. And when the director of that hospital spends 70, he's made 20 million minus a month, so he needs to be replaced, like all the other directors of all the hospitals in the country, and so are you in all the other sectors. So we're fooling ourselves. We need to say we can't give you so many health rights as we can and so much money. Until we do this law is unnecessary work, we're wasting our time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67951	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67952	I will repeat once again that it has never been harder to lead this country or decide on these economic flows in the Republic of Croatia, among other things, because of the fact that in these last 5-6 years we have lost 177,000 jobs where, in the real sector, we have lost 177,000 jobs. On the other hand, employment has increased somewhere by 30,000, where, in hotels, tourism, but dominant in state upgrades. I've said before that it's probably harder to run these small businesses at this point, these small companies than it is for employees who work in these companies. It's not just the state, it's not just a local self-government problem, it's not the municipal system, it's just a problem sometimes these relations are sometimes how these companies are managed in the Republic of Croatia and mostly the concentration of power, which Mr Maric often says when he says that 200-thousand or 300-ths of the largest companies in the Republic of Croatia employs around 30% of the people, to earn 50% of the total income from economic business, and on the other hand, they pay 25% of the taxes. On the other hand, we have 300 thousand small business entities that participate in the business with 25%, employ 50% of the people and pay 50% of the taxes to the state. I think that this very small team should somehow be given a new chance, because if we lose what little we have, we're going to have these big ones, and we're just going to be left with the most vital thing that makes a state.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67953	Second replica, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67954	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Cain, you surprised me with this precise, clear presentation of these statistics. Of course, it made me sad that they were negatively mainly in that part of employment, but it was especially stuck to my ear where you talked about the number of agricultural workers, and that's what I've talked about several times, talking about the potentials that agriculture offers, of course, with that possibility all the experts say has the potential to feed 25 million people, and we're importing food God knows what quality. Of course, all the other indicators are saying and that this trend will continue, unfortunately there will be even more unemployed. But one thing, you said there was a commitment under this law to introduce a statement by the head of local self-government on fiscal responsibility. I would like to say that the leaders of the local self-government units are not afraid and are not obliged to do anything because they are still working on fiscal responsibility, of course taking care of all segments, working really hard in circumstances where incomes are reduced based on income tax and other things. Of course, if one part succeeds when it remains for those capital projects, they torture it by applying to different funds, and it doesn't always go so easily. So I think that in local self-government units as far as fiscal responsibility is concerned, and I know very well that area has no problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67955	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67956	How where and how no one's got a problem. I think I know the same opportunities, so I see there's a problem. But I didn't say local self-government leaders were afraid to make those statements. So I didn't say that fiscal responsibility statements are afraid to be given to representatives of the competent ministries. No, there are positive and there are negative indicators or better examples. But we simply need to learn not only from quotes that we are calling for one political responsibility because behind it is not under quotes but from when a man goes to elections. But these elections can also be determined in some way and I do not say almost affect how to direct votes through employees in individual bodies, through PR agencies, through budget money, through media control and not to list any further. I agree, agriculture may be at one of the most difficult positions in the Republic of Croatia at this time and should be worked on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67957	Next replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67958	Dear colleague Cain, you have now partially responded to what I am about to ask you and I, in fact, refer to your part of the debate, which you said cannot function in a system in which the mistakes or poor work that would be left behind. You're absolutely right about that because this system can't function unless the rules of political responsibility are kept from the very top. We know who so far had the Fiscal Responsibility Act and whether the Government was responsible for violating it, whether the finance minister was responsible. We're changing the law now, adapting it to opportunities, and we'll probably change the law again in six months. According to this, everyone has done well so far, and as far as political responsibility in Croatia is concerned, everyone is doing well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67959	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67960	Responsibilities and which are in this law, in that famous article, the 11th introduces a misdemeanor of 5 to 25000 kuna if I am not mistaken. Well, that's just a funny item. And on the other hand, we all know the real consequences for the country, and I'm not going to say unsuspecting decisions in good faith, but they are often guilty with intent. Okay, well, that's what he's responsible for in a court of law. But no matter what, I believe that this fine from 5 to 25000 kuna is simply lewd and that, as in other cases, when we prescribe a criminal liability, it should be incomparably higher precisely than the high position that public officials have and the responsibilities they have to bear.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67961	And the last replica, Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67962	Comrade Cain, you said in your debate that political responsibility was lifted under the Law on Fiscal Responsibility for Ministers because it is not enforceable. So something similar to what a colleague of Vuksic had alluded to. So I must tell you that political responsibility for ministers and these levels of executive authority is not lifted. In fact, it is further strengthened by criminal responsibility. Political responsibility for lower executive levels is abolished, therefore for the mayors, mayors and mayors and for the simple reason that it is not in practice enforceable because these leaders, or officials, are elected directly from the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67963	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67964	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67965	We continue to discuss clubs. On behalf of Croatian Labourists – Work parties will speak to a respected colleague Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67966	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So if there were political responsibilities and the success of this government was certain to change this law. This law isn't bad and it's good. His provisions are good. The only question is whether they are available in Croatia. We are now talking about fiscal sustainability when we talk about this law. Is it what it means to keep the share of public debt in GDP at the chosen level? The government has set its goals and whether your goals have been achieved. This law wants to introduce order into public finances. It was foreseen by the 2010 law that the heads of budgetary users or local units in the event of a violation of the law should be accountable politically in such a way as to make their mandate available. The law was supposed to contribute to the reduction of deficits. This law should have allowed public spending to be fully financed from revenue, which would have been ideal. Any duties would be used for development, fully for development. It was a fairy tale we didn't make. We know that fairy tales are mostly when we tell stories to kids that they're invaluable. The reforms have not been implemented. We started talking about reforms in the second half of this government's mandate, so I'll repeat it if the Kukuriku coalition gets another election that should be put to a term of six years, and two years are for preparation. The fiscal rule on reducing budget expenditure in GDP by at least 1 percentage point was applied to the final account in 2012. Linic, Mr Linic, the finance minister, said at a time of recession without economic growth every year to reduce 1% of GDP's spending side of the budget means destroying the economy itself. Because without growth, spending cuts in the budget have a negative side, or negative effect. Now all of the controversy we've led here in the Parliament could be reopened as to how the country's economic policy is being run, and is the correct savings policy, the two economic concepts, the two economic policies? The basic message of the new fiscal rules, and it seems to me the same as the old ones in this current law, is that the spending party is being placed in the position of the revenue side. The fiscal rules also extend to companies owned by a state or local self-government and all other institutions whose founders are state or local units. The law is part of, it says, government guidelines aimed at cutting public spending. However, the recently quoted statement by Mr Linic has slightly disproved the thesis. No country has escaped from the crisis with drastic savings, none. And I agree with this claim by Mr. Linic. The goal is to make this law more effective by public administration. Earlier, the deputy minister spoke of the incentives this government gave the economy. They're visible. However, industrial production is falling. However, the impression of the hostile business environment contributes most to the bureaucratism of Croatia. However, what reforms in this area did the government make? It's still been waiting months and years for licenses. We are still almost daily here in the Parliament making new rules, changing the old rules that are very much affecting business. Let's just remember the energy certificate and the awkwardness that happened with the CO2 certificate. People are confused, people are simply, from two ministries of conflicting message cannot arrive without being agreed at the government. And, of course, that people are panicking and that this spreads depression. Mr Lalovac also spoke about the European Commission's views and that the European Commission understood the moves made by this government. However, I would ask the question, I hope that Mr. Lalovec will answer me, did they say in the European Commission that the causes of the recession are workers, or rigid legislation? What would have happened in the past two years if we had the legislation this government is proposing? There wouldn't be anything. Nothing can save us unless we have concrete economic policies and the reforms this government has promised. Very interestingly, every once in a while here at the pay phone of any member of the government comes to say that the cause of the country's deficit is the cause of the health deficit. And a point. And the contribution at the beginning of this government was reduced by 2 index points, about 18%, precisely because of helping and reducing the country's deficit. That's when we said that no employee will be employed with that money and that the deficit will not be reduced. Today it's all that's being determined and it's not saying we made a mistake, we're gonna make it right. I'll go back to what we just said, and that's what my colleague Cain used to say, fines for the offenders. We ask what's the point of these penalties when they only apply to one document? I don't think this was a bad solution to political responsibility, but we here in the light of the law say that political responsibility cannot be determined. That's how we amnested all the bad moves. And certainly those who do not deliver a piece of paper will be the only ones who will be punished for it as much as they do badly. Fiscal adjustment, they say is now a fiscal adjustment in action, it is, it is possible to implement it in two ways, actually in three ways. By reducing public revenues, the second way is through a policy of increasing budget revenues and the third is a combination of both budget revenues and cuts in public expenditure. Of these three ways of fiscal adjustment, the Croatian government has not applied any so far because if it had implemented the work we would not be in the situation we are today. It is said that fiscal planning is based on realistic, macroeconomic and budgetary projections. In particular, the realistic projections were macroeconomic and budgetary for 2012 and for 2013 when all experts said one thing, the government said the other and what happened, even the experts who predicted the decline of GDP were too optimistic. Nevertheless, the Government has been working on the wrong assumptions for 2013 and what happens has happened. The medium-term budget target of 3% of the deficit and 60% of the debt is in line with the EU, but I don't know if it's in line with the government because we haven't yet received answers and I don't know when we're going to get answers to what measures, concrete thoughts. The saddest thing is that this eradication of political responsibility is considered a good move and it is said that political responsibility is only being tested in the elections and that citizens will judge whether this authority or any other government has done well or has not done well. If these assessments were respected every year, it would be good and on the basis of the government's rating would be treated according to political responsibility, or moral responsibility, absolutely certainly so as to have new elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67967	Now we move on to replicas. First, the esteemed Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67968	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Vuksic, you have spoken and you have voiced doubts in principle that this law, the amendments to this law, will help reduce public spending and reduce deficits. That's right. I personally think that these amendments to the law will only contribute to greater red tape and more complicated things, or writing more forms, filling in, sending someone somewhere and ultimately nothing. In the light of these amendments, it is said in one part that the introduction of the obligation to make a declaration of fiscal responsibility by the competent ministry or unit of local, regional (regional) self-government from the level of this user group strengthens the lines of responsibility towards the competent minister. We'll fill out the form here. We can say for example local officials, and we'll send it to the minister in charge, and then we'll experience that the same minister broke this same law and he'll practically decide about someone else and he won't be sanctioned. So again, one unnecessary bureaucratic farce that is absolutely not necessary and I think that, realistically looking at this law and these amendments of the law, will really not bring anything new except to create some new costs, curtailing paper and making it more complicated in the work of the administration, or you might say, probably someone will get a job again who will read those statements because someone has to read that too to be able to act on them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67969	The replica matches Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67970	Dear colleague Hrg, this last thing you said you need to know what's allowed Jupiter is not the ox the government behaves like. If the law could solve the problems we would be the best country in Europe, so we keep changing the laws, supplementing the laws, and this law is proof of that, we can't implement that law, and now we're going to write the law differently as we can, but if we don't do it that way, then we're going to write a new law in six months or a year, and we're going to think that this law can be implemented as long as we can. I wonder how the majority of the congregation raises their hands? Does she mean political responsibility? What's he picking it up for? So we'd be on horseback to say that laws can regulate the economic situation in the state. There wouldn't be any problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67971	Next replica, esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67972	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Vuksic, you said with the right that no country has ever gotten away with the crisis until now it seems only by saving or saving but I suppose you were meant to say only by saving. That's right. Of course, but there must be many other measures. First of all, the investment potential needs to be strengthened. But certainly saving is when the state is in crisis and when it is difficult, saving the state, sending a message primarily from the state level and from the government level but also from local communities is extremely important. Unfortunately, at the beginning of her term, the government sent a false message. One of the first messages, or one of the first decisions already in early January 2012. Governments were the new decision on the terms of use of official cars, cards, and the use of mobile representations, so to which the government's decisions of July 11th 2009, which, for example, limited the use of cards, official cards exclusively to ministers and their deputies, meant state secretaries or only for official travel. By this decision from the beginning of 2012, this circle of persons is significantly, significantly extended and of course not only for travel as it was in 2009. Similarly, the decision was re-introduced for a beautiful and wide number of people. It continues, today we see this decision written about some representatives of some ministers, we need to see what's really on things, but you can see that the ministries live well. I think the government's message whenever it's this hard, it has to be, so it might look like a demagogue at first sight, but the message has to be, we have to save anywhere we can. The recent decision on public procurement, we also increased as you know the possibility of deciding on public procurement above the funds that have been actually a restriction so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67973	The replica matches Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67974	Dear fellow Kosor, you said you should be saved where you can be saved. It can be saved on many items, and it is certainly not good that the team is not cut, it is not good that thousands of smart phones are bought, say someone should be smart and then at least be smart. I said, "No country has escaped from the crisis with drastic savings because it is causing a counterproduct." That's what some economists are saying, and they've been proven by practitioners. They proved the countries that came out of the crisis exactly by combining, as you said, in that savings state, the means of the state's apparatus. We Parliamentarians, however much they call us, can be an example. We don't have phones, we don't have cards, which is good, which is good. But why do even lower-ranking officials in state administrations have that? Who controls those costs? What's the waste of the country? The state is more expensive than it was before, and all the time we're talking about some kind of savings. Everything that has been done so far is not good and this law proves, in fact, practice proves that this law will not be fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67975	And the last replica Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67976	Dear Mr. President and colleague. You've said a lot of things here, but I don't think you've said the point. You're looking for the DORH, you're looking for political responsibility, nothing's gonna help us, not the DORH, not the political responsibility to get out of the crisis. But that line I look back at, what if this labour law had been passed three years ago? It'd be good. I mean, we don't all understand here that we need to reform the state. I said five days ago that Croatia should... in a sense, not in the sense that he would work at some time the same as when he worked in some space, but in a complete sense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't have that yet. So, the former political furniture has stopped, which is the current ruling, I think the former political opposition has stopped any reform attempt by the former government. An equivalent example is that Mr. Prime Minister Milanovic voted to hold a referendum against reforms in working legislation. And until we implement reforms in labour legislation, there is no increase in the efficiency of the public sector of the state. And that's why we need to liberalise the Labour Act, we need to really give managers the opportunity to fire a unemployed without a problem, etc., etc. Until we figure it out, we're not gonna do anything. And all of what the government, therefore, has stopped the government's reforms, this today's government, the former opposition, and in these two years has not made the right moves. And it all came down to Linic, a few of his big moves are to blame. It's the wrong move about health care, it's the wrong move about real estate taxes and everything else, it's the pre-warrant deals, nothing brought results, and it couldn't have been a better result than it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67977	The replica matches Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67978	My colleague Marasovic, yes, we do not fully agree here. We're on opposite sides. You said "until we figure it out, we're not going to do anything", and we should understand that it is necessary to pass such a law on work in which the employer will be able to, not in one day, quit, and quit in one day, because it will be wonderful in the Republic of Croatia. Look, just now, the deputy minister was talking about incentives in the economy. As much as the incentives for the economy are given, the production is still dropping, industrial production is dropping. All guilt is transferred to both the political side and the workers, except for one, are never wrong employers. It's never their fault, it's never the managers' fault, it's never even those employers who steal, who steal, who bribe, and they're not guilty, it's never the Association of Employers raised their voice against it. And you would now and such a rigid labour law that didn't bring the HDZ government but Racan's 2003, so now it's still... That's not gonna happen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We'll see in a year's time in Parliament, if this government will endure, and if we're in Parliament when the effects will be analysed, because the law will be passed, this law. They will be even less employed, the deficit will be even bigger and the crisis will be even bigger. Nothing can be done, no country in the EU has escaped from the crisis in a way that reduces workers' rights and reduces workers' salaries. Cheap labour won't get the country out of the crisis. The point is to make a profit, it is only important to favor one caste that Mr. Milanovic has been doing successfully for two years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67979	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected representative, Martina Dalic, will speak. My colleague Dalic. Last call.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67980	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister. So the second reading of this Law on Fiscal Responsibility, I would actually understand that we are discussing three levels and I think the debate on this law can be seen with three levels. One is an amendment to the law and the way it's explained. The second important level of this debate that encourages this law is actually the question of respecting the law and the rules that it prescribes, so whatever the rules are. And, of course, the third aspect where we are today in relation to these fiscal rules, whether they apply from a still valid law or one that will pass this new law. And these three questions are kind of being broken through all the debates, so they're going to break through mine, and that's what I'd like to talk about. We are changing this law today and re-reading it with a reason that it is being transposed by a directive that is an integral part of the European semester and it is all true and so on. However, the very reason for this law is said to be something else, that the fundamental reason why the fiscal rule is changing is the fact that the existing fiscal rule acts pro-recessionally or makes it impossible for fiscal policy to reduce the economic crisis and encourage economic recovery. However, if the reason for the amendment to the existing rule is such, then I would like to ask you, Mr. Minister, why is this a new rule less pro-recessional? What is the rule that says the fiscal rule in Croatia will be as set out by the European Commission and that the deficit will be reduced at least, and that among other things means that the deficit will be reduced by at least 0.5% less pro-recessional? Because this rule in the same way in other words, and by connecting to other fiscal aggregates, it also says what the previous fiscal rule has said, which is that the financial aspects of the budget and the financial stability of the budget dominate the issues of economic growth. Because if we were to deal with issues about how pro-recession policy is or to promote growth and development, then we'd have a rule of another type. Then we would say that at the time of the fall of economic activity, the deficit must spread, and at the time of the take-off of economic activity it must reduce or come into surplus. It is such an anti-cyclical position of fiscal policy is at the base of all European documents, and we are at an economic point unfortunately at which taking over these rules however you turn is pro-recessional. The Commission itself, at the end of its reasoning of the adjustment that Croatia needs to make, expressed concern that this adjustment means a decline in economic activity in Croatia by at least 1%. All this together means that the central problem and the main problem facing fiscal policy today is its financial aspect, financial position and the need to stabilise the position of fiscal policy on the financial market. So I think at the end of the day that this should have been made clear, and not hidden behind a cover that says we're trying to find a rule that's going to be less pro-recessional. This remains at this point how to find a rule that will be less pro-recessional and how to find a fiscal policy that will be less pro-recessional remains in the government and remains in a way that will implement the rule that one and the other and the one that is existing and this new requires only one thing, which is to reduce the deficit. How this will be done and how prophesy it will not depend on the rule, depends on how the government will implement it. And that's why reforms are so talked about, and that's why reforms are required, because reforms can strengthen the capacity of the Croatian economy to recover, or ideas, the essence and purpose of seeking reform is to remove some of the essential bottlenecks that prevent economic recovery. And these reforms must also be combined with other economic policy measures because only reforms will ensure this reduction of the structural deficit, so only reforms will provide room for the gradual and time-consuming budget deficits to be really reduced because the reform will ensure a cheaper, more quality and efficient way of functioning of the state sector. And that is why today we are witnessing efforts and thinking more thinking, more balloons that are being released into public space about how and how the government will meet not the fiscal rule but the adjustment program requested by the commission. And what is a common feature of all these test balloons that are being released is unfortunately the fact that they structurally very little contribute to the reduction of deficits and very little changes in existing ways and forms of work and very little changes in existing cost sources. As a result, it will be very interesting to see what and how the government will eventually decide, but let us wait until we find out more about it today. So I would say that the importance of the fiscal rule, however the fiscal rule was arranged, was to respect it. Yeah, it's just, it's completely unnecessary and unfortunately the past can't change. But the numbers are inexorable. If the current fiscal rule were respected in 2013 then neither the deficit would have been 5.5% at the end of the year nor the adjustment required by the commission would have been so harsh. Because instead of reducing the share of expenditure in GDP in 2013 their share increased by 1.7% of GDP and the deficit increased by 2% of GDP compared to 2012. It is therefore not quite difficult to calculate and imagine what fiscal accounts would look like if at least expenditure, that at least the share of expenditure remained stable in GDP or that there was an increase of 0.5% of GDP for the transfers that we sent to the European Union. And it can't be said that no revenue instruments were used in 2013. Because you told Mr. Minister the existing rule is aimed only at expenditure and does not valorize the effect of budget revenues. In 2013 it was contained in this result and the effect of increasing budget revenues through the elimination of zero rates and an increase in the zero VAT rate to some basic products from 0 to 5%. In 2013, too, some other measures were fully felt by the Government as well. fiscalization. And with all that expensive deficit increased 2%. So I would conclude it's not a problem in the rules, the problem is the way it is and whether the rule is respected. And that's why I said in the replica, I think a lot of things would be much better if the laws were respected. So whether or not the law was passed during the conduct of the government of some other political option. Because that other political option when it passed this law had nothing in mind but the creation of an instrument for the stabilisation of public finances. It's a shame that this instrument was understood as an instrument that wanted to plant something on a government or leave something that doesn't suit it. On the contrary. The government wanted whoever came to leave the instrument so that what happened last year wouldn't happen. And this is that without operations as you yourself stated regarding shipbuilding and whose weight is 10 billion kuna that without such a volume of operations Croatia came to the historic maximum deficit in 2013 with a clearly increased level of taxation. And what's the last question is whether there's even a chance that this new rule is being respected. I would like to remind you that today we have a budget sent to the Parliament at the same time as this law in the first reading that does not respect either the old rule or the one you propose. It is also bad enough because it clearly states that the law itself proposed by the Government, which is very determined here, calls for the European Union not to be implemented in the appropriate documents, has not been translated into the budget and has not and obviously not taken too much care of how and how this law will be respected. So today we do not actually talk dominantly about how and how Croatian public finances will comply with the rule that we set in the law here rather than how and how they will respect the decisions of the European Council. And it is precisely the fact that the budget is made in a way that does not comply with the rule and the law that you have proposed parallel to the budget puts a large questionnaire on the future and in a way that, at what speed and how dynamics will be respected not only this rule but also the demands defined by the council. In fact, it is a simple technical fact that these requirements defined by the council on the reduction of deficits from 4.6% this year, 3.5 in the next and 2.6 are known for more than a month. They became known in the mid-12th month, today is the end of January. The concrete measures and moves are still missing and one budget month has passed, salaries have been paid, pensions paid. This means that any delay in adjustment further in time, this amount of adjustment of 7 billion kuna mentioned by the finance minister makes it bigger and bigger. Because next week, the payoff for February will begin, and all other budget costs will be paid. So the base for cost reduction is getting smaller and the adjustment needed to adjust means increasing. I would therefore say in my conclusion that it is good and necessary to have a fiscal rule and that, as the Deputy Minister himself pointed out, that is, a trend that is spreading and that exists in an increasing number of countries not only of those who are members of the European Union and who are also bound by other provisions of the acquis. But other than having rules, it is much more important to follow that rule, so whatever it is, because respect for the rules in time will certainly yield results. What's worst, what's worst, every once in a while changing the rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67981	We're moving on to replicas. Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67982	Thank you very much. Comrade Dalic, you said the laws should be respected and implemented regardless of who brought them. I would remind you that the opposition at the time, today's ruling coalition, did not vote in favour of the Fiscal Responsibility Act. Unfortunately, they didn't recognize what message was being sent through this Fiscal Responsibility Act. If they recognized it today, Croatia probably wouldn't be in the situation it's in. But if they did not agree with him, they should have proposed their own law. Unfortunately, they were convinced of something else, today a definitive confirmation that they were totally wrong and what was the biggest problem, which is why I am the deputy minister, and not the minister as you've been calling him, asked this morning whether he would use the provisions of this law in this budget rebalancing. Because according to what can be suspected of what will happen in the budget rebalancing unfortunately, Article 3 will not also respect this budget rebalance which they are now going to propose but can now be said that it is not the result of any reforms but again the result of the pump-up of some revenue side of imaginary income that is one-time. And unfortunately, this law was passed when it was proposed, as an additional fuse with budgetary constraints. Why, because it has simply been seen that certain budget users want to be successful and do not care about a general picture, and therefore the law is proposed with a clear intention that whoever does not stick to it must resign at the end of the year or during the year if he does not have enough money for the programmes he has proposed, ask the Prime Minister to rebalance the budget because he cannot implement his programme. So in the simplest language it says in this law, and we can now chemicalize fiscal law one way or another, at the moment that the budget came to 18 billion and that's our problem and unfortunately more of this fiscal rule, we can create it however we want, it doesn't help anything. It's our fact and it's our reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67983	Thank you. Replication response, Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67984	Thank you very much. Well, counterpart Suker, Prime Minister Milanovic made it clear yesterday, i.e. the day before yesterday, that this is certainly not the only law for whose value, direction and goals the current government did not recognise at the time of its opposition. So I think that, on that point, it is simply no longer necessary to waste words, which is unfortunately so, and the cost of it is paid by the whole state. However, today I spoke to a man who has been following the course of events in Croatia's political and economic space for a very long time, and he actually said a very good idea. It might be a good idea to pass a fiscal irresponsibility law because as every law in this country tries to bypass it in one way or in that way, the circumvention of fiscal irresponsibility laws might actually result in fiscal responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67985	Davor Bozinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67986	Thank you very much. Mrs. Dalic, in your speech you correctly pointed out how much I understood, and it seems to me that it becomes one general understanding, that saving cannot actually be the goal. The goal of this and every government is actually to boost economic growth. There is no growth in Croatia, there is no investment. The one thing you mentioned, which I've been particularly attached to, is reform. When you mention and recently, in the current hour, the representatives of the Government of Reform are immediately nervous, although some of them, for example, here the present Deputy Minister of Finance said well by my court on a television show that Croatia actually needs a comprehensive reform of state and public administration, but the problem is when you ask those responsible for the reform of state and public administrations then they talk mainly about the transformation of the State Inspectorate. For a month here we are dealing with the transformation of the State Inspectorate, which in some way became a synonym reform of the state and public administration in the Republic of Croatia, which, by my deep conviction, is the creation of a vision of something being done, in the absence of any vision of what kind of administration we need and how it should look and how it should actually contribute to the growth and increase of investment in the Republic of Croatia. My question is, do you actually agree that this is just about creating a perception that we have a reform course, and we don't actually have one?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67987	Replication response, Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67988	Thank you very much. So that fellow Bozinovic, namely you yourself said in the beginning that our current situation leads to the conclusion that savings cannot be an answer to all problems. However, it is also a fact that in our situation, in our fiscal situation, we have no choice but to save, but to reduce budgetary imbalances because Croatia's position on the financial market is pulverised and threatened. He is threatened by the fact that the best seen in the fact that the Croatian rating is 2 degrees below the investment rating left for this government to succeed. On the other hand, when the situation is so difficult and so unfavourable, then the capital question is how to carry out this savings while it also gives some positive effects on economic recovery. And at this point, as one of the possible responses and alternatives, reforms appear, and just as you correctly point out to public and state administration reform because exactly the public and state administration by entrepreneurs is recognised as one of the major obstacles to business. But not an obstacle to business in relation to how and how inspectors will be deployed, but it is an obstacle to business because it is slow, because it is not motivated to respond to the demands and expectations of entrepreneurs, unmotivated, and the question of how competent it is to understand the demands of entrepreneurs and, ultimately, citizens and to provide them with a service of state administration cheap and quality. Such measures, which would encourage the state and public administration to compete, to the determination to make decisions here we cannot see.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67989	Time's up. Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67990	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague. I have to admit, I agree with most of your speech. I also agree that what you said was the application of the fiscal rule of this now that still applies or this new one applies essentially to the budget deficit. And as you said, and I think that's what we all here agree that, apart from applying the fiscal rules measures, those that we are obliged to do, given that we are a member of the EU, reforms are extremely important. What I do not agree with, which is a little bit dragged through this debate about our application of the fiscal rule for 2013 and whether we will be able or will not be able to implement the rule, or a new rule in 2014. I must remind you that on 20 October 2013, we had just received data that our statistics harmonize with EUROSTAT statistics and metalogy calculating the budget, that the deficit for last year was projected by 3.5% and it would have remained according to that old methodology. However, by accepting the new EUROSTAT methodology, our deficit went to 5.5 and the same deficit we had in 2011 with 5.6 or 7% according to that methodology would be 7.8 which means that the record 2013 deficit would not be recordable if we were looking at this new methodology from 2011. So I'm just saying that in this transformation of society as a whole and the entry into the EU, and all the reforms that are being done need one important, and this statistical item makes sure that we have entered into one space that would be a new calculation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67991	Thank you very much. A colleague of Martina Dalic, a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67992	In fellow Gjurkovic, it's not good. Wrong way. As far as statistical reporting is concerned, the ESA principles of Croatia have been doing so since the negotiations began. So, quarterly over the last seven years. This means that the calculation according to the ESA methodology is not new to us, and nothing in particular is new to us by the ESA methodology, nor has it brought aside the fact that what you mention is the ESA methodology accepted by the Commission and published as official data. Because so far during the negotiation period, this has not been published as official data. But the exchange of these data lasted and no one else's methodology was unknown. However, despite the ESA methodology, Gjurkovic did nothing to force the Croatian government, nothing but that in the first report on the deficit last 10 months, according to the ESA methodology sent as a Member State, data will be forwarded to the European Commission in 2013. In 2013, the general government deficit will be €12.2 billion. In the tenth month of last year when the actual deficit was more than 15 million kuna, when you sent a rebalance to the Parliament that raises the deficit to 17 the Commission you sent data that it would be 12.2. There is a difficult problem for fellow Gjurkovic, as the problem also raises the question of how and how the Commission would determine the dynamics of the adjustment in the excessive deficit procedure that the Croatian government properly informed her about the state of public finances in 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67993	Thank you. Ivan Domagoj Milosevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67994	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, dear fellow Dalic, the fiscally irresponsible government has found a solution. They will demand increased responsibility from the administration of public enterprises. So, a government that has managed to increase in two years to the historical maximum of our deficit, destroy economic activity. Reforms as well as we know they don't. Yesterday, he asks for increased responsibility and is actually asking public companies to implement what they have not been able to implement in the past two years or to begin. So we are reportedly now hearing that the government is again expecting investment from public companies. But they're going to take all their profits, so I don't know where they expect these serious investments to happen, all the profits to patch up what they've incompetently ruined and increased our deficit. So they're supposed to fire people in these public enterprises, I guess, in order to actually close quickly, growing deficits in our state budget. Now perhaps the most recent example of how incapacitated public enterprises are in these two years is HZ Cargo. HZ Cargo will remind us all in 2011 was a profitable firm, not much, but was profitable. He had a growing amount of traffic, or cargo that he was carrying, and since our geographical position is the potential of this position, the fact that we finally entered the EU, that there is a railway and European agenda, so we need to invest further in our rail transport. Well, then we've got supposed Mediterranean ports, and we've got Luka Vukovar. So, I want to say all of this together, I want to point out, in fact, that it shouldn't have happened that HZ Cargo goes down and ends up like this. In doing so, I found information on the internet verified, which is that last year, Slovenian railways grew 10 per cent. So as Slovenian railways grow traffic HZ Cargo should end up in bankruptcy, 3500 people on the road. So let me repeat, if you can't make this company normal profitable by taking advantage of our geostrategic position and connecting with other surrounding countries, I don't know which one you can. So just to conclude, the maximum irresponsibility at the highest level of this government naturally extends to ever lower levels.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67995	Thank you. Replication response, Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67996	Thank you very much. I think fellow Milosevic is the government's task and that the government must seek profitability and maximum results from state-owned companies, i.e. I think that the Government should treat state-owned companies and should treat them as owners in the same way as the owner of the private sector. So, that they should be asked to operate profitablely, that they should be asked to optimise costs, to conquer new markets and all that sort of thing. However, the government, as the owner of state-owned enterprises, must then treat management and management of public enterprises in the same way as the privateer would. The management of these public companies should then be chosen to find and select those people who have references and who are professional and competent and have proven this by their work in companies that do similar work or that at least they can prove their overall management performance in another industry. For example, the OECD guidelines on state-owned companies speak very clearly about this. Such principles are, of course, then implemented through the choice of management staff, which in this case is carried out through different market research methods, public tenders, head Hunters, but based on clearly defined references and characteristics that such people must meet. It seems to me that, in the case of Croatian public companies, the criteria of choice of management were some others, and therefore, unfortunately, the results are as you described them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67997	Thank you. Marin Jurjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67998	Thank you. Your colleague Dalic said the deficit increased by 2% compared to 2012 and that's true. But it's really about the explanation that got us there, and we don't really get along. Is it just the guilt of some incompetent government, etc., as most of you say by HDZ, or is it something else? What did HDZ leave us when he left power? We were left with interest on public debt, for the last three years HDZ's government deficit was 63 billion, 50% of our total deficit was that interest on public debt, and the other 50% was excessive consumption. The former government left 2.8 billion expenditures not paid. Agriculture 900 million, Ministry of Economy 500 million, Ministry of Maritime Affairs 200 million, Ministry of Finance 800 million. When we look at 2012 this government paid old debts, it paid interest and that was the reason for the deficit. In 2013, we had about 11.7 billion deficits of that interest exceeding 10 billion. When we look at the share of the country 10 billion was a planned deficit. So our entire deficit is the interest we pay for some others, not the politics of this government. 3.5 billion health deficits this government has paid. The new deficits fully define the public debt left to us. The incomes and interest cannot be paid back, and even less the public debt. Shipbuilding is mentioned, so nine billion kunas paid for this shipbuilding. Not because she ran the wrong policy towards her, but because someone wasn't leading any policy towards shipbuilding. I am from Split, and that smurf is destroyed if it is destroyed, God forbid it is destroyed, because of the politics that you have led.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u67999	Thank you very much. Replication response, Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68000	My colleague Jurjevic, you are an older man, an experienced politician and I think that there is actually no purpose and any need and in what way to respond to this replica for two previous reasons. For the replica that you have brought forth and all that you have numbered for everyone is clear what it is for. It's just that you don't have real and real arguments, and then you list a series of numbers like this. Therefore, out of respect for your age, I will not respond to this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68001	It is not right to disqualify a person by age as well as anything else. On the one hand, the debates are like this, and on the other hand they are such debates, and they should not be angry when someone returns with the same measure. Please, you didn't get a word in either one. [[Intruder Dalic: My colleague Zgrebec, I would return the same measure, but out of respect for my colleague Jurjevic, I do not want it.]] On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Nadica Jelas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68002	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister with Assistant, Honored colleagues and colleagues. So, as we know, the Fiscal Responsibility Act was passed at the end of 2010, and the fact is that the fiscal rule is under that law, which is that budget expenditures must be reduced at an annual level one percentage point in the gross domestic product. So that's the rule for the first time in 2012, so according to the 2012 final account, the government respected this fiscal rule, and that fact gets so much more in importance that we know that we had an economic downturn at the time, so in terms of economic downturn. In its debate, therefore, the current government was most resented by counterpart Dalic, because the same fiscal rule was not applied or respected in 2013. So, despite what counterpart Marin said to a series of arguments, I'll say these are arguments, it's not demagogy, so Col. Dalic is immediate, so despite the fact that he listed a series of these arguments. I'll do some of them again. So this rule couldn't have been respected in 2013 for the simple reason that the current government just started a number of reforms last year and reforms cost money. So, you know that we've started reforming or resuscitating health care. There should continue to be a public debt of smut, that for the first time in 2013, we had some new obligations such as payment obligations in the EU, that the government had given up a number of budget revenues precisely to help the economy and that these measures were not taken, the question is how much more difficult and complex the economic situation would be. Definitely the biggest generator of the budget deficit are the interest paid on huge, accumulated public debt. So, let's get back to the Fiscal Responsibility Act. The recession is unfortunately continued in 2013 and so we can say freely in 2014 and then further insisting on the application of such a fiscal rule, so also to the insulated Fiscal Responsibility Act 2010 would in fact lead to further oil being poured into the fire, thus further jeopardising the prospects for economic growth. Therefore, this fiscal rule is replaced by a new fiscal rule which respects the very existence of these economic cycles, hence the cycle of economic growth and economic downturn and allows for a certain anti-cyclical action of fiscal policy that should be in the function of facilitating the overcoming of multi-annual recession opportunities. There is another additional reason why this fiscal rule was going to change. So this is a alignment with the new framework for economic policy management in the European Union through the mechanisms of the so-called a European semester which must provide a medium-term budgetary objective and a medium-term budgetary objective as a preventive measure, a definition as a structural balance that ensures that the deficit of the general budget does not exceed 3% of the domestic gross product and that public debt does not exceed 60% of the domestic gross product. Against Member States that exceed the limits of the budget deficit, as we know, the excessive deficit procedure as a corrective measure to meet the Maastricht fiscal criteria. As we know, Croatia officially entered the excessive deficit procedure the day before yesterday as 17 countries, the European Council adopted recommendations for the adjustment path and on the basis of these recommendations, the Croatian Government will adopt an adjustment plan. By that point, until the adoption of the adjustment plan will be a temporary fiscal rule and it says that the annual growth rate of general budget expenditure should not exceed the annual rate of growth of the estimated gross domestic product. The European Commission expects the structural deficit to decrease in the next three years by 0.5% in 2014, by 0.9% in 2015 by 0.7% in 2016. In fact, the deficit in 2014 should be 4%, in 2015. 3.5% and should be reduced to 2.7% of gross domestic product in 2016. The implementation of the fiscal rule will be accompanied by the Commission for Fiscal Policy, which was founded to remind me of the extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament in December last year. Therefore, this commission, as a professional working body, is appointed by the Parliament as opposed to the former Committee on Fiscal Policy, which we remember in 2011, has been appointed by the Government by the Parliament, by which independence is strengthened and the role of the Parliament is superseded not only by the application of the Fiscal Responsibility Act but also by the implementation of the fiscal policy of the state as a whole with the aim of improving the public finances system. According to the proposal of this Law that we are talking about in the future, fiscal responsibility will have one far broader circle of officials than it has been before. In addition to ministers and leaders outside budgetary or budgetary users, as well as leaders in local self-government units, the obligation to submit a declaration of fiscal responsibility under the new law will also be subject to the heads of state-owned companies owned by units of local or regional self-government. In addition to the state budget and budgets of local units, the law should apply to both companies and other legal entities, as I have said, which are owned by a state or by one or more local self-government units. Why are companies entering that circle? Because Croatia's EU accession creates opportunities for the use of European funds, and these are the companies that are the most potential beneficiaries of these funds. In addition, these companies receive significant funds from local and county budgets or are in debt with guarantees from local self-government and it is therefore important to strengthen the lines of responsibility of the leaders of these companies, according to the competent minister, according to the mayor, according to the mayor and according to the mayor. And this, in my opinion, is one really important addition to the law because it is difficult for the state or unit of local self-government to be fiscally responsible if these are not all its segments, including budget users, there are administrations and companies in their possession. I'm going to illustrate this situation with one example. So, the municipal company owned by the city to which the city provides significant budgets for certain projects, the city's head has fiscal responsibility, the head of the municipal company has so far had no fiscal responsibility and the question is, how can a credible statement about the fiscal responsibility of the city's head if the head of the city's financing company and providing him with the means to work not be fiscally responsible? The first declaration of fiscal responsibility under this law will be submitted by the commercial companies and other legal entities owned by the state and units of local and regional self-government precisely for the current, thus in 2014. The proposed amendments to the current law delete qualifications on the political responsibility of the unit leader of local, or regional self-government because, as has already been pointed out on several occasions today, it is not feasible in practice because of the fact that the mayors, mayors and mayors are elected directly. Because of this inability, the procedure for assessing the constitutionality of these legal provisions has been initiated by the Association of Cities. Therefore, instead of making the mandate available, the local leaders shall be subject to criminal, i.e. criminal liability depending on the severity of the offence. For the leaders of other levels of the executive authority, political responsibility shall remain in force, therefore for ministers, inter alia, by introducing infringement provisions for them if they do not draw up and deliver a declaration of fiscal responsibility as well as where, when verifying the content of the declaration, it is found that the same day is based on incomplete or unworthy documentation. And in the end, I'm going to say that the law also allows for a temporary suspension of the fiscal rule. Therefore, the rule would not apply in cases of natural disasters and major economic disturbances which have a significant financial impact on the state of the budget. Thus, under disaster, the law says, implies an event defined by the regulations in the field of protection and rescue, while under economic disorder there are two possible situations. The first is the annual real decline of gross domestic product, and the second situation is a cumulative decline over a longer period of time characterised by the annual real rates of economic growth, but significantly lower than the potential. The existence of such circumstances, therefore any disaster, any such bad economic situation, would confirm the Committee for Fiscal Policy, but at the proposal of the Croatian Government. And finally, I'm going to conclude, so the first step in adapting to the fiscal rule that we're talking about today is actually going to be the budget rebalance for 2014, but then on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68003	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68004	Your Honor, Madam President. Comrade Jelash, you said you were doing some, I mean this government, some reform. But in the introduction, I want to say that we all want to help the government, we have no other government. What the government does concerns all of us, we want it to be better. But it's not, it's not good. That you were doing health care reforms, that Linic went to New York, brought a bag of money and shared it. And you know why it was forced to do that? Because you've stopped paying hospitals, you've cut down, you've cut resources to hospitals, and then the debt has been increased to a year, two days, it has to be paid. However, you paid in 60 days, up to 60 days, now the debt has increased again to 8 months to a year. So you haven't reformed, I mean, no. Second of all, you said you'd reformed the smugglers. You continued the work of the previous government, we had to do it because of the EU's accession, we had to privatise the smugglers. It's not a reform. Third, we had to pay EU membership fees. What you called reform, it's not reform, it's fixed obligations. Where's plan 21? Does anyone in this House and in this country know what is a consistent, concrete government plan to get out of the economic crisis and what is the order of proceedings, and what is the order? Well, I don't know if anyone here in this House knows to say it, I don't know it, and I don't think anyone in Croatia knows it. That's what we do, that's what's causing the crisis in the country because the government doesn't have a plan to get out of the crisis. It is necessary to withdraw decisive, radical reforms that will ensure the overcoming of this difficult situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68005	Replication response, Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68006	Here, colleague Marasovic, I didn't mean to answer, but there's just a man feeling provoked, so I'm going to answer you in the way you normally serve your colleague Schuker. So we can fight all we want, but the problem won't be solved. So, all of us here know very well that the fundamental problem right now, or for a long time in Croatia, is economic growth, or the fact that this economic growth does not exist. And why is there no such economic growth? Because you left us a completely devastated economy. So, on the one hand, criminal privatisation and conversion, on the other hand, the war, on the third hand, instead of having the last eight years of government of what was left of the Croatian economy, so that you invested in it, that you used time of much more available and cheaper capital and strengthened the Croatian economy, no, you were just sucking out of the strongest part of the Croatian economy, so from public companies funds to finance yourself to survive in power. And that is why the Croatian economy is now uncompetitive and is so difficult to deal with the problems that it brings to the EU. So, if you'd used those last 8 years if you'd left the economy in a better shape, we would have today if we only had a 1% point of economic growth that point would have secured 3 billion fresh money, not borrowed money. You know what 3 billion are? If it were a 2% growth point, that's 6 billion, we really shouldn't be talking about this at all today about an excessive deficit. But there isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68007	Marin Jurevic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68008	Thank you. So, fellow Jelash, with you, I agree that the interest is on public debt which I've spoken before, which we inherited actually explains a lot of things about the size of the deficits we have today, and I've tried to tell them by numbers, I don't know why someone realizes that they react in a strange way, let's say. Of course, as a true gentleman from Split, I forgive my colleague Dalić for everything she has said at the expense of my age because of her youth and her inexperience. But I really think the point is to talk about numbers, arguments, not bad emotions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68009	And the last replica of Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68010	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear colleague Jelash, you have, of course, tried in a way to justify the reasons for the passing of this law. And you used an expression that only moved me to do that because you said he was serving to keep the oil from pouring on fire. However, the fact is that this government has repeatedly claimed that it introduces order and wants to introduce responsibility, etc. and now changes one existing law that seeks to introduce irresponsibility or fiscal irresponsibility at least in certain segments. And I can hardly accept any justification for this really very, very difficult economic situation in which Croatia is presently. You also mentioned budget rebalancing, and it seems to me that this is something better not to mention, because it's terrible, it's just a shame that we've been making a budget in the 12 months that we're going to have to rebalance in February or two months later. That means there's no vision at all, but the idea of how to solve this country's finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68011	The answer to Nadica Jelash's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68012	Dear Representative Reiner, when you mentioned oil spills on the fire, I can't paralyze with you because your profession is something completely different from what we're talking about today. So when I mentioned this expression of oil spilling into the fire, then I thought that this new fiscal rule had to be changed for reasons why the old fiscal rule did not take into account these very economic cycles of economic downturn or economic growth. Since we already have a 6-year recession, the economic downturn had to change this fiscal rule the way the law suggests. As for political irresponsibility, therefore, this amendment to the law strengthens political responsibility for all levels of political executive authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68013	On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, colleague Krešimir Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68014	Thank you, well-respected deputy president. Dear Deputy Minister Lalovac and his associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. We are facing the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on fiscal responsibility or fiscal irresponsibility. The law was passed on 23.11.2010 but the first and primary question is whether anyone has been punished in units of local and regional administrations, but we also know that the ministries have not been punished. Therefore, it is questionable when we pass some laws on whether they are implemented. But now we have a final bill before us, but it is far more important than the law, and responsibility is a virtue for achieving happiness and success. Transferring responsibility or guilt to others is the biggest obstacle to achieving success. But looking at the debate so far, we only have the transfer of SDP's responsibility to HDZ, from HDZ to SDP, but in mathematics there are always numbers. And when we look at the deficit for the four-year last HDZ management period or this period managed by the SDP, it's the notion that the balance in the deficit will be around 70 billion kuna, is it all we know that in 2008 the debt rate in GDP was 28%, today we passed 60 percent, and it certainly did not concern us all in Croatia, but also the European Commission. But it is evident that today we are talking about fiscal responsibility or irresponsibility to spend more than is created and to spend the substance of future generations, children who come. Looking at last year's budget just before the radical cuts were spoken of. There were no cuts. But you don't always need radical cuts, you need the cost of consciousness in reality. And then when we see the 2013 budget or the 2014 budget, where the government itself raises the figure by 22% and then we see clear policy and clear message being sent. The government will not save on itself, it will save on citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Every time it saves, it moves from itself, it moves from the government, the Croatian Parliament, the resolution ministries. And those costs that were not needed and they were also talking about jeeps and cell phones and all kinds of nonsense and costs that certainly were not needed by Croatia at this time. But it was necessary to help the economy, help units of local and regional administrations to multiply European funds and have participation. And a lot of the projects that have matured in the economic areas of our village, our agriculture, in our craftsmanship, are a lot that could have been encouraged instead of the various costs for which the government and the restoring ministries have singled out. Looking at the Law on fiscal responsibility, not only is it important for the government, resorient ministries, but also for Croatian public companies that are significant consumers and we expected them to be significant... European funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] HH, did he design projects for the European Structural Funds? They say they're working and projects are supposed to be done today. Many units of local and regional administrations that have prepared the funds and prepared the projects, but pre-financing and participation, in particular, will not be able to implement large units of local and regional administration projects. And then you come up with suggestions and you raise the government's credit funds from the EBRD, it won't get you into your fiscal debt or the total responsibility of the local administration units you'll avoid the tender and the EBRD will be more expensive than the business banks for the European funds, avoid this competition and avoid the fiscal responsibility law because no one in Croatia has ever been responsible for fiscal irresponsibility. And I'm asking here today whether fiscal irresponsibility is if we bring a budget for 2013 with a deficit of 10 billion kuna, so we increase 70% of the deficit and it amounts to 17 billion kuna. That's irresponsible. No Croat or Croat in her household if she estimates that the loan will be raised at the level of the year can spend 70% more than she has. But it is evident from day to day that the consumer basket of our citizens is falling, that it is getting smaller, that prices are growing. But we also see the expenditure side of the budget in the last three years. The expenditure side of the budget is growing, especially on developing elements. That's what the HDSSB condemns, that's what we indicate, and we specifically point to the fiscal decentralisation that is needed for the units of local, regional administrations because they manage better what they have than what the state does. That is why regionalisation of the Republic of Croatia is also needed. But what is important is economic growth, so we always need capable people, natural wealth, capital and technology. We import technologies, capital, it's in foreign banks, except in HBOR for the chosen, except in HBOR. I think HBOR does a good job because a good part of the risk is also transferred to business banks. But that Croatia should not have sold its banking sector, it is certainly a very important element for the realisation of important economic projects and programmes. We have natural resources but we have limitations and protection on the use of these natural resources especially when we talk about water potential where we can significantly multiply resources. Today, there is also talk of a second pension stake and pension insurance. So why should pension funds not just invest not in government bonds but in other projects concerning Croatia and the energy stability of Croatia but also other projects in terms of both Croatian roads and other things where we know that cash is coming. And government bonds will certainly record an increase and interest rates because we all know that credit ratings bring a rise in capital prices for the Republic of Croatia. We recently paid 10 billion kuna, today 12, a year probably 15 billion kuna we will pay interest to the Republic of Croatia for what we use other people's funds. So it doesn't matter if you do it radically, because it's spending. It's all about spending. Some say consumption fertilizes. It's about smart spending and not spending more than we have. And that is why fiscal responsibility is important from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and public enterprises to the units of local and regional administration. And not that it's an important law, but it's a matter of responsibility to actually implement what's being drawn in the units of local and regional administration. But we also often have the opportunity to see Minister Linic trying to introduce new measures, and then we see in the Kukurik coalition they are one for, one is against. If there is no consensus in the Kukurik coalition so that there will be strategic provisions in this House for Croatia's future when we talk about the economy, economic development and future of our children. These are topics that are very important for the future of the Republic of Croatia. Today, we have a law and article 11 that addresses the political responsibility. Political responsibility is very important. But we had local and regional elections and people who were convicted, so people chose them. That's right and a possibility. However, this fiscal responsibility should indicate who it is in this country that does not respect, who is in charge, and who is in charge of future generations. That's very important. The fine of 5 to 25 thousand kuna will not help local, regional administration units if their leader used more than he had. But we also have the same situation in some places, such as Vukovar, there is no Mr. Saba here, and you have one majority in the city council, and you have the mayor of other political options, and you have a situation where each other certainly won't help but a political situation where they get away from each other, and they get away from actually Vukovar. It's a matter that's not good and for fiscal responsibility. But also in such units of local or regional administration Article 11 is hardly applicable. It can be applied and punished by the head of the 5-25 thousand kuna and again we will have that punishment, if one day he is punished, for that punishment to go to the state budget, and that is why we often talk about fiscal decentralisation. Let us leave one part of the income to units of local and regional administrations to develop, to stand up and to make better decisions than does the Government of the Republic of Croatia on more important priorities for these small towns or municipalities or even cities. The Constitution and the choice of mayors, commissioners and the fiscal rule were mentioned earlier. So we also ask the question when it comes to budgeting in the unit of local and regional administration, and then elections, as is the case with the fiscal rule, should we also pay attention to the fact that this law is also not good and also applies to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Citizens and units of local and regional administrations, as well as the Republic of Croatia, expect funds to be spent on purpose, but expect happiness and success in their local administration units in the Republic of Croatia. That is why it is important and prudent to project and use prudently, but also to respect the law on fiscal responsibility. We see here and Mr. Lalovec said that it is an adjustment to the standards of the European Union. I am afraid that there will be a pack of the European Union instead of the responsibility of both the Croatian Government and the units of local and regional administrations. That's what the HDSSB advocates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68015	Now, buddy, you have eight or nine replicas. I haven't been able to count it. Stephen Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68016	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Bubalo, I agree with you with a lot of what you said, mostly in the part where you said that a lot of things could be encouraged which would be beneficial. Of course, consequently more jobs, possible activation of construction operations because you said that in local self-government units many projects have been prepared, many projects have been done and only needed one little push, our colleagues on the ground are responsible, they are very responsible for many things and of course they are doing various projects and they are sure to be encouraged and supported at a certain point, as you said welcome. That's part of it. And the second part where you said about agriculture. Agriculture itself is aware of the cuts in the incentives of the support that have taken place in agriculture and, consequently, what it has come to. Yesterday they came to visit us from the Turkish Parliament, and they made it very clear that they should very much encourage agriculture because they are all getting it. It stays in these rural areas, of course we'd get better quality food, etc., if we weren't going in now. And a special story is that decentralisation you were talking about, so many functions, many obligations are therefore made to care and to worry about the local self-government, but from... with the means nothing to pay by that income tax is still many and lost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68017	Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68018	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague of Milinkovic's. He had a few replicas. First of all, when it comes to incentives, there must be plenty of room when we talk about economy, agriculture, where it can be encouraged and where there are good projects. But what I was saying earlier is that the unit of local and regional administrations will not have enough power and fiscal capacity for large-scale European Union projects, meaning structural funds to finance themselves, and that Ministry of Regional Development must help find the strength. But I also warned about the EBRD, I warned about what was going on, and what I estimate will happen in the units of local and regional administrations. Incentives are important for agriculture, but it is also important for the market. Our peasant can produce, our peasant is competitive, but it's very important both incentives and costs of re-compromisation, but also what is finally an important market, and there are important packages, sorters, coolers and everything we talk about in agriculture, but it's a separate topic. But what is crucial is that it is the fiscal decentralisation of the Republic of Croatia because units of local and regional administrations are much better able to identify and detect the problem, the problem of our fellow citizens living in these areas and are easier to solve the problem. But the HDSSB also often talks about regionalisation, the fusion of units of local and regional administrations to joint performances and the reduction of the state apparatus.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68019	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68020	Comrade Bubalo, you mentioned the state budget accepted at the start of 17 billion kunas of higher expenditure compared to the planned revenues, and that made it clear to us. What we are talking about today and what you were talking about, what Minister Linic is talking about today during the morning at a press conference on the planned deficit of 4.6%, next year 3.6%, then real estate taxes are being announced again, gambling taxes are being prepared, public companies are being won, points out that following suggestions from experts from the European Union on the enlargement of tax policy, and you're talking, I'm talking, and we're all saying that investments and life are moving right out of the lowest units of local self-government, regional self-government, what's happening on the ground. Without fiscal decentralisation, there is no further development, no investment. We can also talk about the funds that we will attract from the EU. What are we going to do with these projects if the Department of Health has told us these days that duty is our standard? Well, then, local self-government units, so that the departments of duty will survive on weekends and stay at work, so that our citizens can have it again, and that responsibility to local self-government units. Not to mention companies that are now planning to confiscate profits in order to patch up the gaps in the budget, which, with these companies of ours and owned by units of local self-government and state, will launch some kind of development cycles and investments. Taxes, imposes, filling this 17 billion kuna hole, we're not going to be able to run what you and I want in our area, and I guess the state should think about it, without investment, without construction, without employees with as little intrusiveness as possible, without talking about those taxes as much as possible. Local self-government units at two percentage points at 25% are paying into the state budget. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68021	Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68022	Thank you very much, colleague Klaric. In fact, when I was talking about the state budget, I said that the state budget and deficit was projected for the past year by 10 billion. But at the end of the year, a rebalance was made and that amount was increased by 70%, not 7%, and the deficit was 17 billion for the past year. The deficit again this year is projected at 17 billion. That's inadmissible. We're wasting something we don't have. We're in charge. Croatia has never returned either principal nor interest in these 20 and a few years. There comes a time when you will have to underline the line, but the key must not be spent more than it has. And we're also talking about the spending side, but you also mentioned the income side, the new tax. And how will the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens survive with new taxes? I hope it doesn't come to that. But also when it comes to the profits of companies, the state can either take them away or it doesn't have to. But new investments are being talked about especially state-owned enterprises. They'll get paid, and then they'll be forced into a new position. That's what's not good. It's better to get it into new capital investments, investment that's important. Often these two years, they talk only about national investment. But the importance of investing in local and regional administration units, it is important to withdraw EU funds, the private investment of our employers is important, and foreign investment is important. Now that is what is missing in the Republic of Croatia where our economic diplomats do not do their part of the job, do not present the possibility of the Republic of Croatia and do not try to bring foreign investors into the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The Ministry of Health and Dubios, in particular the Payment Act, should not be mentioned. What we would agree on is development.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68023	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68024	Thank you very much. Comrade Bubalo, we have witnessed what you have been saying about foreign investment that numerous delegations are coming to the Republic of Croatia as our delegations are going to other countries. Let me just mention Qatar, Azerbaijan, Indonesia and all sorts of other countries and exotic and not exotic that have come here delegations and ultimately none of that. But what I particularly wanted to point out is what you mentioned yourself is I would say wastefulness and irresponsibility. We remember coming, now we're not going to talk about these new current events but the ones at the beginning of the French Prime Minister, President Hollande. Remember what restrictions Mr. Holland has made in the state administration. A socialist about the same belief as the ruling coalition. I wish we had, that this Kukuriku coalition looked up to the great socialist leader of France, Mr Hollande, in the period when the mandate began not in this new period. So fiscal decentralisation is what was the problem and today is the problem of Greece. Greece is a highly centralised country and exactly Greece's difficulties stem from the problem. Immediately after Greece, the Republic of Croatia is highly centralised. So there's room for change, there's room for reform, but without that fiscal decentralisation, and we've decentralized it, you know, as the former mayor of Osijek, so decentralised functions, but fiscally, it's all in the treasury, it's holding everything under the hands of a man or a government that has that treasure under its control.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68025	Thank you. Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68026	Thank you very much. Mr. Grubishic, my dear friend. You have also detected the arrival of foreign delegations, as well as the departure of Croatian politicians to foreign countries. But the results are important. At the end of the trip, the results are undermining, so I remember recently when Minister Vrdoljak went to London and my colleague Maric replicated. He says we'll see when he gets back if his journals are wasted. And surely the time has come to draw the line and ask the same question. And looking at the Republic of Croatia, looking at the arrival of foreign investors, then I think a lot of these diaries and travels are wasted. The investors didn't come to the Republic of Croatia either. The promotion of the Republic of Croatia should be done and channels are known how it is done, but it is done in one wasteful way as you have said, Mr. Grubisic is an important responsibility and that is what the HDSSB is looking for. Do not transfer blame from left to right or one or the other, from SDP to HDZ. But when we look at math, math is clear, the deficit is clear, they did the same thing to each other. But what is an important message Croatia is not an island, Croatia has its own environment. We know what Hungary was doing, what neighboring countries were doing. We need to make moves, we need to stabilize the state register, but also public systems and units of local and regional administrations. You mentioned Greece. It was always spoken like Greece. I hope that we will not replace ourselves with Greece so that they will say "indebted" to Croatia, because exactly the European Commission will not allow it. But we have to take that step ourselves, not let the others give us the pucks. Therefore, decentralisation of the Republic of Croatia is needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68027	Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68028	Thank you, Madam Vice President. It is good that, in your presentation, you have touched first and foremost the fiscal responsibilities of local and regional self-governments and leaders because we have talked a lot about the state level, and this is very important. It is important that you also pointed out that, according to Article 11, political responsibility was abolished in a way that the mayors should resign after defining some fiscal responsibility or irresponsibility and step down from this position. Because, of course, we know especially now that the mayors are elected directly to that part of the citizens are those who are very much aware of this political responsibility. I would not even agree that in that part they have now been reduced in some way, i.e. changed and part of the criminal responsibility. I'd like to hear your opinion that in what part of it someone will be punished for violations from 5 to 25 thousand kuna. What are those arguments? We know we had fellow mayors who have 25 thousand kunas, and it's nothing... pay if at the same time you make some kind of denomination of your city out of a few dozen even hundreds of millions of kunas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These 25 thousand kunas are nothing, and at the same time someone 5,000 kuna for the wrongly completed travel order form is a lot. And that's definitely going to happen because it's happening now. On the other hand, the competent authorities, above all, are the audits that must have procedures throughout the country unique. There is a case that the revision in one county gives conditional opinion on the same thing, and the revision in the other county gives unconditional opinion on the absolutely same thing. So, this one with a conditional opinion and per application and a tax order will pay the fine. On the other hand, we must say that responsibility that you said to the government, state-owned companies and leaders, and there is responsibility and citizens. If they want what they have, they choose mayors and mayors who do such dubiosis, then they should be held accountable.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68029	Thank you. Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68030	Dear counterpart Skvaric is certain that responsibility, fiscal responsibility is important and that this resignation has been defined by law so far. I don't know any mayors, mayors or mayors that he had to resign for fiscal responsibility. And so far, I don't know that anyone has been punished in the Republic of Croatia. Here, I'd like Mr. Lalovec to see who's being punished. But I don't think these 5 to 25 thousand kunas will help local administration units. Here these days you have an example of Kutjev, which is a lot of talk and the gentleman seems to me Ivica Nikolic spent two budgets in one year. And what luck would Kutjevo have if he had to pay 5,000 kuna? No way! Because he mutilated Kutjev in the long run and disabled him in his development. But surely, you mentioned the revisions a moment ago, the conditional opinion detects problems to talk about. But also these days, there is a report on political parties who have conditional opinion in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, there is a need to speak clearly and clearly to the irregularities in someone's fiscal business of units of local and regional administrations, as well as states and parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68031	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68032	Thank you very much. You spoke to your colleague Bubalo and said the exact expenses should be taken into reality. The expenditure must be reduced, but care should be taken to avoid reducing expenditures that will result in a reduction in consumption. And income must be increased but not taxed because the tax option is exhausted. Fiscal efforts are significantly higher than fiscal capacity. So that's out of the question. You also spoke of fiscal irresponsibility and financial irresponsibility. Well, there's more and more talk about one irresponsibleness and the other, we're making more and more laws, and there's more and more irresponsibility in every way. In both fiscal and financial. The law on financial responsibility and pre-profit settlement is the most irresponsible and harmful law passed in the history of the Republic of Croatia. And the State budget for 2014 is a school example of fiscal irresponsibility and the endangerment of Croatia's fate. It's good to follow the rebalancing, it's good. You were saying that irresponsibility is not punished and you mentioned a city now, and there is another town that you pass by when you go to your Osijek where the mayor forged the city council's record, deceived the minister who gave him permission to be in charge, and when it was found out that he had been deceived and that the falsified minister had withdrawn his approval but no one was punished. The State's Attorney's Office didn't react at all. You were also talking about pension funds to invest. So they invested in INGRA, in METRONET, in OPTIMA, in Dalekovod, in the NEXE Group, destroyed 4.8 billion kunas of our money. If the Croatian state leaves its fate to the funds, Croatia will not tell us where.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68033	Thank you very much. Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68034	Thank you very much. We need to bring our fellow Marić's expenditures into reality. We were talking about consumption, and that's what I touched in my presentation. There are expenditure items in the budget that can be cut and which will not affect consumption. But looking at the period from 2008 to 2014 the expenditure side of the state budget grew, and you look at consolidated budgets of units of local and regional administrations they fell into the Republic of Croatia. I've been running Osijek for the last four years, and I know that the 600-dollar budget went to 400 million kuna. And we had to behave responsibly and cut costs. But also make sure we have capital investments. More laws and more problems. Now that's what we need to think about in the Croatian Parliament and point out. You point nicely to pre-warrant deals where unhealthy people destroy the healthy ones. And that's what our citizens and our entrepreneurs tell us every day in conversations. He's unhealthy, he says, pulls me healthy, who regularly paid taxes, which I regularly paid suppliers. Was I stupid for paying taxes neatly? It's a question we hear on the ground every day. That's the question we ask in this Croatian Assembly. It's a question we need to resolve. She gave the pack and the European Commission about the pre-demand settlement, but it doesn't seem to be enough. You mentioned a colleague of Marić's rebalancing after a month and a few days of budgets we received. That's one irresponsible policy we're talking about here. The budget is a document relating to the budget period of one year. Then there were no extraordinary circumstances, no earthquakes, no war and nothing else to rebalance after two months. About Novi Gradiška we know everything, the funds will only be talked about and known in the Republic of Croatia, and these are children who play with our future.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68035	Thank you. Jadranka Kosor replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68036	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bubalo, you said among other things about the last three years that the expenditures of the state budget have been steadily increasing over the last three years. If that's what you took into account in 2011 and I understood, it's two or three last years, then I have to say it's not true. In 2011, the expenditure of the state budget was therefore frozen compared to the previous year, and in such frozen expenditure we included new four billion expenditures, so that they also came because of an increase in pensions but also because of commitments to the EU and interest, etc. So that's one claim I wanted to refer to and another about the responsibility of those who actually break the laws. You mentioned with the right that they were so I dare say I many of those who were even prosecuted for various crimes, won and you mentioned winning in the local elections. It's inadmissible and maybe we should now and now it's this moment to think, it's very easy to install into the laws that those persons who are being investigated against are either accused or convicted can't be candidates on any list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68037	Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68038	Thank you very much. I spoke to Mrs Kosor earlier about the period 2008-2014 and it is visible in that period if you look at the 2008 budget that significantly increased costs, expenditures, so I'm not really every year special, but let's take the period from 2008 when the crisis started until 2014. The expenditure side of the budget is unfortunately not frozen. That was even before your period when you were prime minister. Mr. Sanader said there was no crisis. We all remember those statements, but the crisis was very much so, and then it was time to freeze the spending side. But I'm looking at the spending side of a 100-billion-dollar cartoon, and it's almost 150 billion. So these are numbers, but what's frozen is not the cost side frozen. We've got a frozen economy, we've got an economic downturn, we've got a decline in gross social product, we've got a drop in the number of employees, we've got an increase in the number of unemployed, I'm not saying Mr. Lalovec CEFTA has already hit us, it's important responsibility, and everyone's responsible in the local, regional administration unit, the state, the public company, then we won't have this happening to us what's happening to us. You just mentioned Mrs. Kosor and those who won and were convicted. I mean, when it comes to an investigation that you don't need to prejudge someone's responsibility because you certainly have on the ground and criminal charges, etc. People finally prove they're innocent. Therefore, responsibility must not be prejudged but it must certainly be worked on that those convicted of not being able to do what they did to local administration units.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68039	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68040	My colleague Bubalo and in his debate and in these answers to numerous replicas the most common word you have used is the word responsibility or irresponsibility, and I agree absolutely with you that responsibility should indeed be spoken. You respect this current government that it is irresponsible because in the 2014 Budget, it envisioned a deficit of 10 billion and that it is already after a month and a half, because the deficit is as you said 17 billion kuna. So, there's something I need to tell you, or remind you of. In 2011, the HDZ government showed a deficit in a far smaller amount than it was, so it showed 14 billion and last year Eurostat found that it actually amounted to 24 billion kuna, so 10 billion kunas more than it was shown. This deficit, which was thus undetected at the time, which was pushed to say so under the rug simply went over in 2013 so now the increase in deficits from 10 to 17 billion but here was a hidden deficit of 10 billion more than these seven. So, math is as clear as you say. But we return to responsibility, or irresponsibility. Is this, therefore, the cover-up of the budget deficit that I was talking about during the HDZ government and the transfer of that deficit, this hot potato to the new government, was it political responsibility, or fiscal responsibility?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68041	Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68042	Thank you very much. My colleague Jelash, I was really talking about responsibility, and with this I began my exposure because responsibility is a virtue for achieving happiness and success. Transferring responsibility or guilt to others is the biggest obstacle to achieving success. But in your replica, you tried to transfer your failures to your predecessors. I was talking about both SDP and HDZ, not going back in reverse, should look into the future. You mentioned it, and I'll mention the number from last year. The projected deficit was 10 but we rebalanced 17 billion kuna. This year is already scheduled 17. I hope by rebalance that deficit will decrease because we can't spend more than we have. You just mentioned hot potatoes. There are more hot potatoes in the Republic of Croatia and more and more hungry people, that's my answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68043	Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68044	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, here I am going to relate to my colleague, Jelish. In the replica you pointed out an extremely large word of responsibility and then a little decentralisation, of course, you talked a lot about local administration and self-government, so I would like to ask you the same thing, the political responsibility you had in the elections when citizens didn't give you the support to stay mayor, but what about that responsibility that comes after the state's audit finds that you have some kind of conditional opinion, that you have controversial and suspicious claims, almost 10% of the budget, then what is the responsibility of the local leaders who then possibly ask for more of the state to cover those funds? I also believe in this segment that this responsibility must be much stricter, not only political waiting for 4 years, but that this responsibility must be both material or in a situation that when a state asks for decentralisation clearly says, first you arrange your business inside the house, and then you can get the funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68045	Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68046	Thank you very much. A fellow Gjurkovic, people give you confidence or don't give you confidence. They gave me in the past years, both in the county and in the city and in our political option. But also in the city of Osijek you went against one, your coalition of SDP, HNS, HDZ and not telling you the whole political spectrum, it went and barely won. But I am sure that the HDSSB has support in both the city of Osijek and Slavonia and Baranja, and we will prove it again in the next elections. But when we talk about local leaders, it is certain that everyone should have the fiscal responsibility and responsibility that I emphasized in my presentation. Some have more help, some less in units of local and regional administration, but that is why regional development of the Republic of Croatia and decentralisation is needed precisely by that coefficient of development of the Republic of Croatia because we have some developed that are increasingly developing, we have some underdeveloped, and that is exactly Slavonia and Baranja which is increasingly lagging behind.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68047	On behalf of the HNS Representatives Club, colleague Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68048	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. The HNS Club will support the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fiscal Responsibility Act. I will make certain arguments on behalf of the club, which are also related to some of the debates that were before me on behalf of the clubs. So, what is fundamentally clear is that the fiscal responsibility we have had so far with the existing law and with these amendments of the law is strengthened in a way that, already said, but I must repeat, within the Croatian Parliament, a commission is established which is essentially most of the experts of the independents who have a stronger role of the Croatian Parliament itself in the control of the work of both the Government and local self-government and will consider and assess the application of fiscal rules and planning and documents that are being adopted in connection with this law. And it's one newspaper that completely excludes that thinking and, of course, by me politicizing in terms of none of this, no benefit, no responsibility, so they won't respect it, so nothing about it will happen to anyone. However, the introduction of this law, but the commission is also given much greater responsibility and transparency, as well as independence and what is most important within the Croatian Parliament, from independent experts, and not always as often as you like to say, by Europe. Because Europe's goal is, in any case, to reduce the deficit, in all EU countries and public debt and to increase competitiveness. What, how, in how and how to follow all this together, is the responsibility of the Croatian Parliament, is the responsibility of the Croatian Government. This is one of the laws that provides these assumptions, and I agree in the debates that only this law will of course not in itself, except for the responsibility and creation of long-term planning and structural and macroeconomic, I mean structurally on fiscal policy, bring about a new one in itself, except that we will give ourselves into those frameworks that we have signed and we have made a commitment. This law is essentially about a series of reforms that were discussed here and killed them were denied that they existed. I will not only talk about reforms related to the economy related to the Strategic Investments Act, improving the investment environment, reducing or abolishing the income tax unless invested, fiscalising, reducing water and forest tax. I will talk about the concrete measures and reforms that are necessary and implemented in different ways in all EU countries were those in excessive deficits, and here we heard, once again, 16 countries are in excessive deficit procedures, we are 17.14 countries have more public debt than 60%, the public debt average in European countries is 89%. So, these are the reforms implemented by this government and which will implement and essentially point out that this government knows very well what to do to adapt both to the needs and opportunities and to life and to the society and to the economy as we do to the amendments to the law, as we also participate in those directives and regulations created within the EU, and all of these new changes are related to improvement and improvement, and not of course to reverse existing regulations or laws. So, together with this law, measures being implemented by the Government are the central account of salaries, reform of the pension system, reform of the state service, supervision of employment in state institutions and public services, reorganisation of state institutions, institutions and offices of the state administration, transformation of the State Inspectorate which we have had the opportunity to discuss in the last days, rationalisation and merger of agencies, abolition and reduction of parafiscal charges, 57 parafiscal charges or will be abolished or partially reduced in this year, legalisation of legally built facilities, unification of educational support for textbooks, unification of social benefits, a single body for skills, control of sickness, reduction of expenditure on prescription medicines, the introduction of free supplementary lists of aids, correction, that we know, harmonisation of VAT rates and the elimination of tax benefits from public care in the field of public expenditure. It's all in the process. What is being started is further integration of the accompanying services, outsourcing services, transformation and placement of parts of all business activities, unification of public procurement, a single monetary centre, a reduction in the choice of funding substitutions with funds from European funds, a masterplan of hospitals, the restructuring of the network of schools and programmes and the reorganisation of the judicial system. Now, can someone tell me that this isn't structural reform, part of the implementation, part of the reforms that have been launched? And this is an integral part of the essence of this law and this is an integral part of the government's project and work and fiscal and macroeconomic to get as competitive as possible the public administration as possible. What this law also adopts brings about an improvement in efficiency in the use of funds from the budget and local self-government and the state and the county or regional self-government as well as of all bodies from companies, courts, all institutions which are state or founder or owner. And that efficiency and control of the way we work brings both economic and efficiency, and what we all believe in politics we seek to be meaningful, which is that politics is measurable, that what we plan to compare with what we plan to, that it is responsible for what we say, what we write, what we bring, what we do. Of course, in politics and in implementation and fiscal measures and all reforms and the achievement of the planned objectives, there are always certain unplanned phenomena that we cannot influence. Whether they are related to our environment, to our markets on which we rely on export or tourism depending on or time or world championship, it is something that the Government must surely monitor, react, supplement and correct. But it should also be pointed out that everything planned to have unplanned phenomena at some point, and what is important is to prevent and work on it in a quality way. We talked about local self-government and the responsibility of local self-government. We at the HNS Club believe that we need to transform certain laws or local self-government that would put mayors and mayors and mayors in a better position than violations and the possibility of relations with city councils in which they do not have a majority political or cannot agree on certain programmes. All these reforms and this law and other laws dictate certain and programming and budgetary items in units of local self-government in such a way that often mayors are unable to change the budget and correspond in violation to them. Therefore, in further discussions and other laws, in particular on the Law on Local Self-Government, it should be taken into account that this responsibility should also be transferred to those who are representatives of the city or city council or to the budget. And also take note, I have just before replicated when we talk about discussions and obtaining audits by the State Audit Office on conditional or similar bad opinions for the work of certain city, county or municipal administrations that support by the state must be as less or less reduced as Croatia does if it does not implement fiscal rules has certain sanctions or restrictions and I think it is much more quality than these misapplications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68049	Now we'll move on to replicas. Marijan Škurić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68050	The Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. Dear fellow Members, first of all in your presentation you have well noted three things above all this is all we do and fiscal responsibility is related to the European Union directives. The second is that you really mentioned that the use of funds must be as effective as possible, the most banal of all that is written, and that is what let's not spend more than we have and what we do let's do it under the law. And you mentioned a good local self-government, that there's a great responsibility, a great expectation in that part. Of course, whether it's real or not, we can discuss it in other things. What I would particularly like to mention, however, is that we are still the most realistic thing that can happen to us that has something to tell us about the participation and influence of the European Union. I can say that from my example of fiscal responsibility, personally when you are doing projects from the European Union, which are unfortunately, unfortunately, fortunate that I even had to because... when I became mayor and when I started one... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I couldn't get an investment support cycle, unfortunately from the resolution ministries, I turned to the funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when you sign one contract that weighs half a kilo of weight on all of those things you're responsible for when you implement them, the funds you get from these funds will certainly be aware of what and how you need to do that program and project. And you are aware precisely because no matter how we tend to be in Croatia that we have very good laws only no one applies to them and no one responds to them because at least I as Mayor of Leprechaun would have a problem if I had too much or lack of space in prison. And we are still kind of dealing with that, however, that the European Union will be a corrective factor. From that part, what we have to do is work it out so that it will come back to us in full measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68051	Reply to the replica Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68052	My dear colleague, I am pleased that you have recognized this desire and my intention to point out because in so many discussions about local self-government, it has not been debated, although absolutely this law applies to local and regional self-government, as well as to all companies and institutions that are related and 100% are owners of local and regional self-government, which is an extremely large number. And it is good for the public to see and to know that in the Croatian Parliament, regardless of the nature of the definition of the budget deficit itself, the fiscal policy and the macroeconomic policy of the government is much more interesting and interesting, but local self-government is much closer to the citizens. And pointing out the responsibility of local self-government especially its effectiveness in law enforcement and new control of its work is something that Croatian citizens will welcome in any case. And this political responsibility, which is as if under quotes to say so, is clearly not abolished in that formal sense, because the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the media, are absolutely following the work and calling for political responsibility in every way possible. And that's good because the responsibility that local leaders like us at the state level take is to take over and use the investment of Croatian citizens for their benefit and they have the right to know clearly how good we are, how effective we are and how right we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68053	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68054	Thank you. You are a colleague of the largest verbal optimists in the Republic of Croatia as regards the economic situation. One of the the thesis that you have presented is that politics should be measurable. You haven't applied, you've given a single indication that you would measure and prove your point of view that things are going in the right direction. Reiting agencies continued to know which category of reiting Croatia and Croatian public companies and Croatian cities. The European Commission is pushing us into an excessive deficit procedure, six years of recession, no indication that we are coming out of this recession anywhere. And we're going to end this year again with unfortunately a minus in recession and below zero we're going to be about GDP. It's gonna be six years. We're gonna start our seventh year in recession. And now you're talking about measures on optimism, recovery, what? So didn't you see that industrial production re-recorded at an annual level of 2.5 or 2.8%, in the previous year of 5, something, 5.5? So if you as a ruling coalition at all, as people who need to take responsibility, you're not ready to face the reality of this situation at all, you're going on selling demagogues without any cover at all, then really these discussions are losing more sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68055	Reply to the replica Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68056	An esteemed colleague of ours whether our discussions have or do not make sense will be assessed by Croatian citizens. And will we leave the recession in 2014 because I personally believe, not only because it is a coalition government that has said it or written it, but because it is an assessment of economic experts who just cannot agree whether 0.2 or 1.2% will be growing in gross products. What is clear is that in 2013 we had an investment growth, a private sector, that in 2014 we will have even more work both in the private sector and in the public sector and that this is an indicator of prepared projects and possible realisation that is well conditioned by all measures and instruments including the laws that we have passed in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, my optimism is based on facts and expert assessments.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68057	Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68058	Thank you very much. Comrade Gjurkovic, how do you even assess these successes of your government when credit rating junk became what, after the garbage what? What Mr. Gajnik said about an Immunological Service employee. Furthermore, everything you do is to divide this country, the state of Croatia and you are doing well. You're doing very well in the parting of Croatia. You first estimated that 2% of the contributions to health insurance that amounted to around 2 billion kuna were a great contribution to the economy of the Republic of Croatia, thus bringing hospitals into a state that they now have 30% less income and extended waiting lists. You speak English about outsourcing. What does that mean? It's out for employees in other services besides nonmedical, and sourcing doesn't know what you're looking for sourcing, it's not clear to me. All I know is he's out for maids, masters and everyone else who works in hospitals. In addition, you have imposed 70 kunas on everyone, and grandmothers who have a pension of 1000 kunas and those who have, for example, in the government or representatives who have 15, 20 thousand kunas. All equal 70 kunas have an extra one. So where does that make sense? Where's your social sensitivity? In the judiciary, you say judicial reform, because courts with three times as much work as Slavonski Brod from Požega will transfer the seat of the courts to Požeg because there is probably a strong SDP-ovic who sits here in the Parliament, and otherwise the former mayor of Požega, so he dragged his likeness and merits to the SDP court in Požeg. Let's think a little differently. Make sure that Croatia goes forward. We do not have to be so hasty and so zealous in the parting of Croatia. In addition, your health reform was best said by employees in clinical hospitals, you see the health care of the 21st century Mr. Ostojić. It says nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68059	Thanks, buddy. Here's my colleague Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68060	Dear colleague, here's an example. The fiscal effects of the reorganisation of state institutions or tax administrations,... social care, public administration offices, police administrations and stations are saving you 35.4 million kuna. Whether there's an area office somewhere or there's an outpost there is a technical question, a matter of savings, a better rationalization and a better quality of reorganisation. You're saying we reduced 2% of the health rate from 15% to 13%, so we crashed the health care. Health care has been extremely bad, you know it well before, so it's going to reform. But what is crucial besides the public sector reform that I was talking about on behalf of the club, this reduction in the burden of the economy that will continue is crucial to getting out of the crisis. Fiscal responsibility and reforms are one thing, public administration reforms, and the competitiveness of the economy insurance to the economy to make it easier and easier to get into the market and increase exports, competitiveness, is crucial that this government is working in a macroeconomic sense. What you are saying, outsourcing and not outsourcing is quite clear that certain actions, i.e. services within the public sector should be given to the private sector to work because it works much more efficiently, in many ways and faster and better quality will make savings than the public sector does. That's what's known, that's why you do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68061	Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68062	Thank you very much. Comrade Gjurkovic, you have said nicely that politics is measurable, but what is not nice is precisely the figures that indicate that Croatia is going in the wrong direction. 380,000 unemployed, a drop in GDP, the deficit mentioned this year is 17 billion, but 70 billion will be in office. That's five budgets of all 556 units of local administration, in your term of office. What HNS specifically advocated is big investments. They're not there either. Credit rating's dropping. You can see that all macroeconomic indicators are negative, and then what happens? What only citizens still see happiness is gambling, and here is what will be taxed even harder today. We're not against it, but it's visible, your forecasts from 2012 and 2013, will certainly not happen in 2014. Optimism is gone. You're talking about optimism. If you took a walk in Slavonia and Baranja, in villages and cities, you would feel very much what is happening and how people live. From the constituency bench you can't see it, so the policies have to change because this measurement shown is negative.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68063	Replication response, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68064	Dear colleague, you have until recently been the leader of Osijek, and the HDSSB has a certain impact on the dissatisfaction of the citizens of Slavonia and Baranja with the way he ruled. The coalition came two years ago and took over 205,000 workers who worked in the private sector, who did not receive salaries or were paid contributions. We found 70,000 workers in the economy in companies that were blocked for a year and more. If you think that magic wand solves it, and I think you know that you are real in that segment that it is not possible, that you should have implemented pre-fashion deals, introduce new laws and regulations that would have introduced this into reality. The result is, in part, a larger number of unemployed. My optimism or optimism of this government or the optimism of the coalition is based on work and facts, and what you don't believe in, I'm sorry. We will disappoint you on this, but I believe we will confirm the optimism of Croatian citizens that they are coming out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68065	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68066	Thank you very much. A fellow Gjurkovic, it is very interesting to listen to these discussions, but a bunch of debates are going in the wrong direction. This law is known precisely why it was passed and I can tell you from the first hand. He was brought here because even then, like today, there are certain powerful men, and there are many who spend the budget more than they have. And therefore, despite all the changes in the Budget Law and the assessment of the fiscal impact, certain things have happened that have happened. And that law was passed so that Croatia would not find itself in the situation it was in today. That's a fact. And if you thought that because of this or that in 2012, in 2013, you couldn't respect the provisions of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, then you should have changed it. And every other story we've done this, we've done what falls into the water. Why? Because we're in excessive deficit measures today. We have an 18 billion deficit. The government made decisions today. But why? Because many participants did not adhere to the rules in that traffic, they did not adhere to the rules that were made for the simple reason that the Ministry of Finance no longer goes crazy at 12 months and covers all those who spent more and that this budget is somehow being patched up, but simply that whoever submits a specific programme gets for so much and that money. If it is not able to execute or to resign or to design some other program that can be executed for so much and so much money. What's with all the bickering and the balalaikas over something that's white and clear? It's just that the question is whether we want to admit what's white is clear, and obviously we don't want to admit it, and that's why we're here today where we are. And we'll be here where we are even in a worse situation until we're ready to admit what it is. So this law is a clean punishment for those who spend more than they have.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68067	Replication response, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68068	Dear colleague, so when we talk about this law, we know that EU-led fiscal policies are related to a particularly fundamental reform of the so-called. packages of 6 measures and other 2 measures which entered into force in 2013, which are related to the strengthening of fiscal and economic surveillance of the establishment of common rules for national budgetary users where more responsibility is transferred to the structural deficit. And this is just one thing of harmony. As your colleague Dalic said in her speech on behalf of the club was this or the existing law or the new Fiscal Responsibility Act, it is crucial that we conduct it and respect it. And that is what is essentially the key to this law and the key and the work of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68069	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68070	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, you and your colleague Gjurkovic, as well as the predecessors, have talked about the responsibility of fiscal, responsibility especially at the level of units of local self-government, and in some ways it is the impression that there is both a certain agreement on the left and right in this regard because we have the same problems, because we solve the same daily problems and responsibly, we are responsible for taking care of all the needs of those who chose us. Of course, we expect support in this, but we also expect responsibility at higher levels. Well, here I am going to tell you a short time ago on my representative question, the Minister of Agriculture began to list certain circumstances in my community where I am one way or another, and my irresponsibility was punished by the citizens with 82% in the election, with 82%. So I would say my minister that such a responsibility and such a job your Swiss ministry would be to me. The second thing, you were talking about certain reforms that you started, which you started, and then you emphasized the legalization of illegally built objects. Of course it's all good, but it's expensive. It's expensive for our fellow Gjurkovic, for our citizens, and it doesn't work that way. So when we speak today of comparisons with many people in our environment, many countries are Hungarians. EUR 100... They say "saz euro" and the story's over. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have several thousand euros. We show responsibility in local self-government units for helping, co-financed, which, of course, according to our capabilities. And I'm not even going to talk about orthopedic aids where you were talking, so a short time ago you saw what the parents of children with developmental difficulties said about aids. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68071	Replication response, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68072	Dear colleague, so this deficit that we have today and which we have next year is not the result of this government alone. He is the result of inherited non-reforms in the economy and something said was not invested in development, but was bought by voters. You often like to talk about the dairy industry, and we are aware that since 2003 milk production, it is the same industry in my opinion, from 2003 to today more than 40,000 farms have been closed and an extremely large amount of budget funds have gone right into agriculture and right into those farms. And if this were guided in a way that monitored the efficiency of the use of funds and not just sharing to get certain points of political then we would not be in such a situation with the dairy and neither with the Croatian deficit.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68073	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68074	Thank you very much. So in your discussion, you were talking about optimism, you were talking about a larger part and local self-government. I don't know how you measure optimism in your party, but if this is optimism as employers say, it means when they share a clean unit for what you've done, if optimism is a poll that measures the government's direction, and if citizens support it, and they say 70% that it goes the wrong way and that they don't support the measures that this government takes, then the question is what is pessimism? That's the basic question, then. As for local self-government and reforms that you spoke of 75% of the development index, it is not yet in force. The Regional Development Act has not been passed and it is better never to be adopted in this form. I think he's already fallen in public debate. But perhaps it would be good to invite you to the Gorski Kotar to see the effects you've made with the amendments to the three laws, mountainous and mountainous areas, the PPDS and the town of Vukovar when you took the rural areas of 100 million kuna without any remorse. Look at their budgets for 2014. Ask them what they think of that move. Is it normal that the government doesn't want to develop rural areas, to make people leave and that we all live in big cities? If that's the reform you're supporting, we disagree. Croatia and the European Union, we did not enter that Union in an easy way. We begged to come in. They've accepted us with certain rules. We started to change the rules with which we joined the EU. Remember the Law on Judicial Cooperation, we are now amending the Fiscal Responsibility Act because it does not suit us because it does not respect the policies we have implemented. And if these are reforms, and we just have negative consequences we're going to be in an even bigger problem for a very short time. We're dealing with simple things now in the most complicated way. It's not reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68075	Thank you very much. Replication response, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68076	I mean, I don't know if reform is the most complicated way, they're basically the simplest way to do what's called structural adjustments and make public administration more efficient. How can we do this rather than reform? And whether someone is satisfied or not with the reforms is quite clear is a greater dissatisfaction that is stronger and stronger reforms. And we're all saying that reforms should be done, and when the draft laws for certain reforms go, then everyone complains. Why? Because they're being threatened by certain "real" quotes. But those who do not object are at least rebelling at the very least because they agree with the reforms, they need reforms, Croatia's state of reform is needed to bring this economy forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68077	Thank you. We have one more club left, and colleague Kosor has asked us to extend the hearing a little bit. On behalf of the club of independent representative Mrs Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68078	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, for your understanding. I've been listening very carefully to everyone who spoke for the clubs all morning, so thank you, I'll try to cut back a little bit. Mr. Deputy Minister, it is precisely because I have listened to everything and very carefully because the Law on Fiscal Responsibility was passed in the term of the Government, which means in 2010, I think I can conclude that after this debate we will find it very difficult for colleagues and colleagues and ladies and gentlemen on the green branch. This year 2014 which is ahead of us is a difficult year, it may be harder than last year. However, we are still exhausting ourselves in actual debates mostly over who was worse and instead of catching on to a concrete law, for example, and to see what we can do better, can we do better? Whatever government it was I remember when the law was passed there was resistance. The opposition at the time, today's government voted against the law, and today I heard in this debate that some of those who voted in favour of the 2010 Fiscal Responsibility Act felt that the law was not to be passed at the time. So, I think we'll have a review of this debate in the Labour Act. The labour law needs to be changed, of course you need to see what's most important. We've been with the unions a long time, and with union centres, we've agreed that we're actually going to go out with a new draft of the Labour Act. That proposal is as much as I know it's been accepted by this government, but here's how far nothing's happened. The changes are ahead of us, and I think the real cresendo is actually going to be in the assembly right about that law. And as counterpart Gjurkovic said earlier, yes, everyone would reform, no one would reform. But that's what I, as Prime Minister, used to say about this pay phone and be often of course ridiculed. So let's look at what we have in common, which we can do together. It is good that there is a law, and I argue, namely not only me but also the rating agencies, so until the first downsizing of our rating in the past two years, they claimed what was clear, so our ratings kept the fact that we had completed the negotiations and what we had brought in 2010. The fiscal responsibility law. The fiscal responsibility law at the time was not our obligation to the EU. So, at the time of the negotiations, no one forced us to pass this law, and I don't think today is forcing us to do anything but we have to do it for ourselves. Of course, we are now in the process of excessive deficits, but 16 states, as was said, were in the process. And it's not the scariest thing. That is why it is good that we are a member of the EU because imagine that we are not an EU member and that we are in a difficult situation like this. So we're going to have to change, we're going to have to do more and we're going to have to work differently. The fiscal responsibility law is the only one telling us to do things differently. There was a lot of talk about responsibility, about political and any other responsibility. I just remind you that here's the last two years we've had, and even in the last rebalancing of the 2013 Budget, that only salaries or wages have increased by almost a billion kuna. The increase is paid clearly, of course, in the budget for this year. So, of course, none of the heads of the ministries above all that happened was in any way responsible. So what was the problem in my opinion was that the budget was being passed, that the revenue sides were overestimating and the expenditure parties were underestimating because it proved that expenditure was growing and that revenues were actually changing. So my opinion and the club's opinion that the law should not be changed, that the law should have been implemented. My opinion is that the Fiscal Responsibility Act was implemented so that we would probably not be in such a difficult situation today with a deficit of 17,5 billion kuna. However, the government, of course, has the right and the ruling majority to amend a law that will change. All we have to do is spend it again. So, even this amended law will be a good law if it's implemented, if it's further said, I'd spell out everything where it's going to screw up, if it's really responsible, if it's going to go down, spend wherever we can. I mentioned in a replica of the government's decision of January 2012 where it is very, very extended, say, a circle of people who can use credit cards, for the team, they are relieved of the conditions under which united public procurement can be carried out and so on. It's little pebbles, but these pebbles agree with a mosaic that's ultimately called fiscal responsibility. So this fiscal responsibility must be measured both in public procurement and at local level and in water procurement and in office furniture and the fact that we are faced again with the fact that as far as I know and as far as I'm concerned, we will be faced with the earliest budget rebalancing here ever since I've been in politics and we've certainly brought it in at the end of last year, and now we're going to change it. So, the Fiscal Responsibility Act is one of the important instruments of responsibility in general, and I remind myself again about the salaries and for this year in the Republic of Croatia's budget we are again after the rebalancing where we have increased the salary funds by about a little less than a billion now we are increasing as much as I remember about some more than 700 million kuna in the budget this year and we will see what happens with the rebalancing. What's good about this proposal? In my opinion, the provisions are that those leaders who do not comply with the Fiscal Responsibility Act are punished but only infringing provisions, so there is no criminal responsibility, here is only a criminal liability of 5-25 thousand kuna. Finally, colleagues and colleagues, since you have been kind enough to stay, although we have extended at the time of the break, it is important to have a fiscal rule, it is important to implement it consistently, and I think it must finally be clear that none of what we are doing today in this law and through this law that we will do in decisions that we are not doing for the EU or we are not doing because we are a member of the EU, so someone is forcing us to do for ourselves. Because this is how you're in constant debt, increasing budgets, increasing expenditures, we can't live anymore, and that's not just a finding from today. It was a finding both yesterday and the day before yesterday. So we have to do it for ourselves from state level to every municipality, city and county, which includes a project to reduce, for example, municipalities that we can't stand. Those municipalities and there we must have the strength and courage, determination, to make at the time of my government the criteria are made, we have the criteria, let's get all the municipalities through these criteria, those municipalities they've been asking the government for years, which I can't keep closing the budget, which I can't even make 500 meters of some road, for example to the cemetery, I've received such demands, they can't survive. It should finally be admitted once, draw the line and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68079	Thank you very much. We have two more replicas, Dujomir Marasovic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68080	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Kosor, listen, I've heard a lot today in this debate, my colleague Gjurkovic, that in 2014 there will be milk and honey. He's not here, I'd say wait for the donkey until the grass grows. Okay, okay, I didn't forget. [[/Break Zgrebec: Do not replicate to Gjurkovic, colleagues Kosor.]] Here he comes out, so I don't want to be late. I wanted him to hear something before he came out. My colleague Kosor, the issue of the adoption of the fiscal responsibility law. I thought, I think, and I'll think. For us, at the end of our term, in its biggest work, in fact what was wanted by him, he is inconclusive because then at the end of the term and Minister of Finance, specifically then Shuker, today Linic cried out the Prime Minister you spent more, you went to the country deficit, you should resign, not the hospital director who had to give him the service but didn't give him the money. He's a contradiction... So that's what I was thinking, not that anything in that law would be very positive, that there wouldn't be positive intensities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That law wanted to be followed by the minister and some state officials as something and hanging on their heads, whoa, you can't spend it like that. In fact, ministers should also be changed if they do not implement and implement one of our own as Prime Ministers or Prime Ministers should change it, governments should be changed, governments should resign. In Italy, 60 governments changed in 35 years, so every 6 months there was a new government. Italy has become the world's fourth economic power. It's to us this government is clearly going to be incompetent. He can't get away with it, he can't face this challenge. If this government had fallen in ten years or eight years ago, it would have ruled well, lived on that swimming, which I know, surplus, and it would have been okay. But he's in no shape to deal with this and...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68081	Thank you very much. Boro Grubišić, replica Your friend's out of time. [[Intruder Marasovic: and should change it, but will not and therefore will not go forward.]] Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68082	Thank you very much. Comrade Kosor, you were talking about the EU's decision to, like all countries, make the budget deficit up to 3%, and now ours is 6%. Nothing the EU thinks is bad for Croatia, on the contrary. Already, according to some calculations of some renowned economic experts and statements, each child in the Republic of Croatia is already in advance, so as soon as it is born, in debt for 30,000 euros, about 250 thousand kuna. What will those generations tell us, our children and grandchildren for the work of these and these governments? That's one thing. And second in your time, we've broken a spear here in connection with the EU's request from the chapters, and it seems to me the 23rd in connection with the network of courts, the judiciary, where we have then reduced and created a new network of courts. Here's today's judicial reform again consists of a new network of courts. Are we going to change the network of courts every year and a half, for two days? We've established one network of courts, now we've got another. What kind of reform is that? So I don't understand this announcement of a new network of courts that will reunite, join, separate, etc. As hospitals join together and separate, and thanks to the French consultants we pay 200 thousand euros, as Frenchmen know better about our health than we do ourselves. Well, that's terrible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68083	You know it wasn't a replica because a colleague didn't even talk about judicial reform. Replica response, colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68084	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, yes, I think counterpart Grubisic wants to remind us of the conditions for which we as a state of course knew when we began to negotiate, so also during the negotiations. 3%, 60%, that's, that's the framework we knew about, so the Mastricht conditions, so nothing happened in the meantime. And I repeat, that is why it is very important, and in my opinion, very well, despite some skeptics, that we are EU members because that we are not a member now and that we have accepted the force to do the best. For who? For your country and for our children and for our future. As far as the judiciary is concerned, yes, that's not what I mentioned, that is one reform, but I have heard of this reform, let's say some opinions from the Association of Judges and Others. It always remains for discussion, but the fact is, I'm going back to the past, many are looking for cuts, reforms, few are us who accept that they enter our yard. So I'm not defending what's now being proposed, we're just going to discuss it, but that's a fact. It's the easiest thing to say. You have to say, let's see how something can change for the better.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68085	Thank you very much. We'll have a break by 3:00. We will move on to an individual debate, the first colleague is Drazen Djurovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68086	Here we will continue the debate and in an individual debate the next word will be given to the distinguished representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68087	Thank you. Here is Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs. I am, on several occasions, about some topics for which I feel a burden of responsibility and personal responsibility to the very fact that I am in the Assembly and the role of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Just about some topics I think these are topics about which we do not have the practical right as representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It's my personal opinion in no way to speak in gloves. In particular, these are topics relating to the situation in the Croatian economy, the situation in Croatian finances, or as is the case here about this fiscal responsibility where we are all actually under the impression of that cutting budget and the difficult situation in which the Croatian economy is located. The fact of the deep recession is here. A deep six-year-old now has been a six-year recession since the last quarter of 2008. During that recession, so far the three Prime Ministers, I think three finance ministers, three to four economy ministers and tens of them, and hundreds of government officials through the three governments that have been in the Republic of Croatia during this recession. Countless, more or less successful or unsuccessful economic and social adjustments, experiments, attempts to find an answer to how to get out of this recession but exact indicators show that this response has not yet been found. Speedy hyper borrowing is present, this trend of the accelerated borrowing is practically like an avalanche rolled in the last two years since this coalition has been in power since the continuous decline in GDP, worrying permanent decline in industrial production, decline in real wages, dramatic decrease in the employment and pensioner ratios, dramatic rises in the number of unemployed, constant pressure on citizens' standards, rising energy prices, pressure on labour prices and constant pressures actually on the price of Croatian products, which actually does not increase but constantly reduce competitiveness and Croatian production and Croatian exports. Often mentioned measures on the reduction of 50th and some parafiscal burdens which had some cumulative effect of around 200 million kunas really fall immediately into the water at the moment only the Croatian state introduces a parafiscal fee to Croatian citizens of kuna and halves for water industry and at the level of the year burden Croatian citizens for 400 million kunas, that one kuna and a half per cubic of water, about 400 million kunas and such several fees over the year and so on year and in fact Croatian, and of course we will have 300 thousand Croatian citizens with blocked accounts. When it comes to fiscal responsibility in the ministries, we had a budget last year, we had budgetary users and ministries that carried out significant breakthroughs in that budget. We didn't see much of a coincidence between those ministers and those ministries that broke those budgets. We didn't have and we really didn't get a clear answer why the Ministry of the Interior had breached 300 million kunas of its budget, or why was it so rebalanced? We didn't get an answer as to why the Home Office had to buy these ultra-luxuries at this time? There was no answer. Each for about 500 thousand kuna. We didn't get the answers why they had to buy these aifons in the government, we didn't get the answers from the start of the mandate why those 50 million kunas were shot in the center of the bank, but we get the answer when it comes, when the problem comes, when the bank's central problem that the state doesn't have the money, that it can't be found, that it intervenes in saving 200 jobs. High-productive activities of the state needed activities which are very, very sustainable. Structural reforms, major decisions that will affect all citizens are lagging behind, we are affected by the crisis and its consequences. Croatian citizens are not affected by structural reforms because they are not there either, Croatian citizens are only affected by the crisis, recession and its consequences. A few days ago, the prime minister repeatedly called for a dialogue on certain issues. We also call for dialogue, but as an opposition to the economy, science, political forces that do not belong to the ruling coalition, no one in any way really calls for dialogue on one point of key or key strategic decision, which, if it should be done at all in this country, and we all agree that we need them. So why don't you find time, space, if there's something you want to talk about? So why don't you finally call for that conversation sometime if you want to or are looking for support over some difficult decisions? And if we all agree that maybe some really tough decisions should be made, so why don't you sometimes call for a dialogue? In addition to a declarative call within the assembly on support for certain solutions. Dialogue on what? So, we as a party of HDSSB, myself personally, and we as representatives are ready for dialogue and conversation, but that call has never been made. So, just with the solutions you come up with, you're looking for dialogue, you're looking for support. I don't know how we're going to do it, and on the other hand, you can see for yourself in these two years that it doesn't work, that you don't succeed in the cuts that you might need to do, you will confront Croatian society with yourself, all of its structures and you won't be able to realize it that way. Or you'll buy more time in this year, a year and a half, and somehow it'll be over, even next year, the election, so in 12 months, next year is election year, so from January to 11 months, and here's our election. Or if you will, and the European Commission is actually pushing you into certain necessary structural cuts, so open up space for this dialogue, even in this last year of the mandate, if the situation really is, and we all feel that it is such that we can't wait two more years until the next election and then reassemble the new government and then re-emergence, and people live from day to day, from month to month. And all indicators also say in this year that we will end up with a decline, a decline in GDP, a fall in standards, a fall in industrial production, investments will remain on the same or stagnating and there will be no answer. Fiscal responsibility, we as a party have received all these years since we exist as a party, unconditional opinion. We support fiscal responsibility, we support statements of fiscal responsibility and we do not see any problem with the implementation of these amendments to the law. But it's not the key, it's just one of the tools of a very modest range and that's all. A few months ago you practically cowardly recede when it was necessary to tax these additional revenues. And you didn't, you simply gave in to yourself, you gave in to bank pressure to make it easier for citizens to pay their loans, and now you remember when someone in Croatia got 100 million kuna, so of course it's not logical that he pays only 20 million kuna taxes on those 100 million kunas, and the Croatian citizen pays a rate of 45% of taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68088	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. She is one of the distinguished representatives of Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68089	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of Djurovic's. You've been very good at finding out everything he is. Fiscal responsibility yes, we're all for it. But where are those inspections? Where's the surveillance? Who's being punished? Is there anyone being processed for breaking the budget? Why does 16 ministries have a conditional opinion? What did they do in public procurement, in consumption? Where are the public companies? Where are the sanity managers of hospitals who've assigned hospitals twice as long as they've been so far? Where are the state institutions, and how is this taking care of public money today, and they called all the governments so far how wasteful, how were they, how were they, how were they like this? What is it today when we have the law, who is sanctioned by it? No one. There is no law and is now still changing to make it even more favourable or not sanctioned by those who have already violated the fiscal responsibility provisions. Double duty in hospitals, both those state and those municipalities under the sanitizers and the Sanitation Councils. By law, they are guilty, but even under fiscal responsibility, they cannot be excluded. They are responsible for every act they have done and should be sanctioned. Instead of serving and implementing the measures we have taken to have a legal state in all segments, in order to work all today are debts over 360 days, and it is prescribed how many payment deadlines. They also exceeded one year's overpayment of debts, let alone the 30 or 60 days allowed. So I don't think this makes any sense, that this is just a farce that we're wasting our time and government money on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68090	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Drazen Djurovic will respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68091	However, there is no farce, people live from month to month and simply these people look at us and expect us to have a solution however we know it. And we must be responsible enough to try to look for those solutions, so I said as far as our parties are concerned, it is never questionable that we will support everything that brings any result. When it comes to this health disaster, it would take much longer than a replica, and they have an idea and a desire to reduce health costs, the health system. They don't know how, they don't have ideas and they're starting from one end, they're the costs of end-users in that final item that won't bring any results, they're going to cause big frustrations for people who work, they're going to cause significant waiting lists and worsen health care, and they're not going to bring any financial effects. But here's what we'll see very soon. And when it comes to the work of the state bodies, so we can't be satisfied. The people evaluate us in the Croatian Parliament with a score of 2, minus 2, the Croatian government has the same score of 2 or minus 2, and therefore we all fall, and we are ourselves guilty, and the collateral victims of their inability to get this country out of the fungi, and co-responsible in that, we are co-responsible, if we will be silent and if we accept the situation as it is. We have no right as an opposition to go beyond this condition anymore. Croatian citizens can't take it anymore, Croatian citizens are asking us for a change from the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68092	Thank you very much. The following came to the replica, the distinguished representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68093	Dear colleague, I have listened carefully to your presentation and I understand that each of us always refer in our discussions to that area that is close to him, so you referred to the area of health in your debate, quite correctly. But an uninformed viewer can get the impression that that's how you support everything that's going on in the agriculture sector, for example, since you've listed all the mistakes that are going on in the field of health, so let's say what's going on in the science sector, education. Let's say the minister at the end of the year says he doesn't have any allowance for teachers and teachers. So what happens in the sector in charge of social care and work, so what happens in the sector for the economy. In fact, in your opinion, a colleague might get the impression that in everything else, except here in health that it has to be fixed, about culture not to talk. It might get the impression that roses are blooming on roses, though barbed. But let's just say, you'd get the impression that in the Ministry of Finance it's all right and what you said was that everyone pays taxes and that it's strictly controlled, that it's an order being introduced, but you can see that someone forgets, doesn't pay the tax, but forward the collected tourist tax that he received on behalf of the guests who were... means just to receive and forward the next tourist tax. Well, maybe all of that should have been said by an esteemed colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68094	Thank you very much. The replica will be answered by the respected representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68095	The six-year recession has left lasting consequences on all layers of Croatian society, on all structures of Croatian society and on all segments of Croatian society. If we focus on what I think is most important at this time for Croatian society, then the most important thing at this time is how we can and what measures can we make Croatian products cheap and competitive enough that we can produce it at a favourable price and that we can sell it somewhere and that we can create new jobs. If we're going to put it as a focus, but this government didn't set it as a focus either, because if we focus and detect really our social problems, these in all sectors of society are just reflections of this depression in which the state and society are. But the fundamental thing at this point is that we no longer have in particular on the EU market in which we have now made a joke we are no longer able to produce anything that can compete with its price and be sold somewhere and that Croatian workers can also work and the company can earn profits. It's getting smaller and smaller. And additionally, through the measures of this Government, this product has not become more competitive in these two years, and the Croatian worker is also more competitive, but the opposite process is happening, practically autoing. And if we want to determine, and we think that this is the main problem then let's look for what measures will be taken by the economic environment that we can agree to finally reverse this process in other justice because without opening jobs and any twists there will be no place for health care nor for culture or for pensioners or for anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68096	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ante Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68097	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, here you are very reasonable, rationally calling for dialogue or trying to call for dialogue, here I have to say that for two years Croatian mayors have been calling for a conversation with the Croatian prime minister and are failing to make it with written requests and with oral requests through protocol there is no time to receive Croatian mayors. And I think they're next to the ministers responsible for the state of play on the ground, for talking about the situation on the ground to help with structural reforms because they work directly with people every day. And when we talk about health care for the county as well, here are our health homes in our Split-Dalmatia County now offering a new HZZO contract where on the island of Drvenik where there are 50 residents trying to pay for the head of the doctor, you know what that means. you know how much it is possible for any doctor to come under such conditions and provide care or health care to the population. Here's the answer to what you're trying to do and what you're appealing for. They appeal to others, but unfortunately without an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68098	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, the response of the esteemed representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68099	Thank you. Well, like I said, this isn't a crisis anymore, this is depression, but it's taking too long and it's too deep. At this difficult moment of depression, at which the Republic of Croatia finds all key political decisions for future Croatia to make within three people, two, three or four of which is possibly one economist. It can't go on like that anymore. Is it obvious that that circle of two, three people have no answer? So on the flight, they agree to charge Croatia for several billion kuna and do it at 5.6% interest. Well, that would be easy for you and I to be in charge of such interest. You don't need to be a great expert, it'll give you credit on such interest. But that's not the answer. It's not the answer that you're day by day, practically from hour to hour sending different messages that you keep... on the ground without any real solutions being able to formulate in the long term. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And, of course, it is necessary to include mayors and mayors and interested professional public and political parties in various forms of dialogue and to seek some of the elements of the overall strategy to be started in the process of exiting the crisis because this process can not, either, begin but cannot end for the term of office of this government. Therefore, it should start with some measures that will be sustainable after the next parliamentary sources and not after the next parliamentary elections to go round again and that the new government is starting something quite tenth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68100	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the distinguished representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68101	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, today we've heard a lot about this law, I'd try to bring it down to what it is in principle. And given that the government has today put forward some measures to reduce the deficit, i.e. to address excessive deficit measures. So in order to fit these excessive deficit measures proposed by the government, they will be able to fit into this law that we are making today. Because it's gonna be funny if those measures conflict with certain provisions of this law. But that is why I would like to repeat a few more, although I have already said several times today, so this law has not been passed because of the European Union. Because we and the Budget Law and some other laws had clearly defined all the provisions defined by the Fiscal Responsibility Act. The fiscal responsibility law has been passed so that Croatia does not experience what happened today and what happened in 2011 and all these years later. So, to paraphrasise, what was that law about getting rid of? So simply when the Council adopts the budget and a certain budget user, whether it is a minister, agency or anyone, it gets so much funding that it simply cannot exceed that position. If he sees that by the basis of his programme approved by the Government and the Parliament will not be able to do so with those funds that have been granted, he was obliged to request budget rebalancing from the Prime Minister or in the units of local self-government who is already in charge of it. So why? Because with all the measures that were unfortunately, and today, it happens that, at the end of the budget rebalance at the 12th month, it was going to patch up some holes because some ministers overstepped their positions, so the law was passed. For the simple reason why, and proposed, given all the experiences that were from previous years simply budget users could not come to terms with the frameworks given to them by this House of Commons. Because this High House is ultimately the one that adopts the budget and no one should exceed certain positions. And even the provisions in the law went so far that that head of the budget user who spent more money must give his mandate to the Prime Minister. And let the Prime Minister decide what he will do with it. So the law was passed because of it. Now look at the colleagues and colleagues of the provisions of Article 3 and let's try to compare it to the biggest procedure that will reduce the deficit of the state budget as proposed by this Government. Therefore, cyclic economic effects are part of the change in income, i.e. the general budget expenditure resulting directly from the prevailing cyclic economic conditions. Both taxes and expenditures represent a loss of tax revenue due to the recognition of deductions, etc. And now watch your colleagues and colleagues, so the government has decided that all employees in Croatia who have so-called. their funds that have been paid into their private accounts for the past 11 years, so the employer paid them that all these funds will be withdrawn into the state budget, as well as that their payments to those 5, in fact, are more so because the different calculation of health benefits for the benefited traineeship is not going to go to the second pillar but will go to the budget. Why am I saying that? Because those who have an underprivileged job experience receive pensions under the Pension Insurance Act. And tomorrow when they retire they don't get a pension from the second pillar but their savings in II. The pillar is transferred to the state budget, so the moment they retire. Now look at your colleagues and colleagues, what's going on right now with this measure of government. We do all the things that these people have done over 11 years and what they're supposed to do this year and next year we're going to put into the budget. It's all O.K., the government opted for such a policy and, and even there's nothing so controversial about it because they get a pension under special regulations anyway. However, if you look at the provisions of Article 4(7) and if you take a little look at the ESA in 2010, and that is the EUROSTAT rules as the account and measurement of the deficit is taken, we have created expenditure in the future with this measure. And if we stick to this Law on Fiscal Responsibility, then when we amend it and the Minister of Finance said it would be regulated by the amendments to the Pension Insurance Act and when the Law is explained, because this Law will come to the Parliament after the debate on the Law on Fiscal Responsibility and whoever proposes this law will have to be foreseen if it is to abide by this law, exactly what I'm talking about. So all of this, at this point as a one-time income, will be paid into the budget in some years to come, will be the expenditure that will not be amnesty from those assets of the second pillar. So why did I take this as an example? This is typical, so that I can say an eclectic example of a law that currently has a positive effect on income, and tomorrow has a negative effect i.e. It works on expenditure. This is the provision of Article 3(7) for you, and therefore I did this morning, the Deputy Minister asked whether this law would apply to this budget rebalancing that has been adopted due to economic policy measures. Because what it is, this law also says that tax relief, you, if you give someone tax relief, you have to see it in a certain way as a loss of budget because if you didn't give him that tax relief, that would be budget income. So one quite different way and a view of these diverse tax reliefs, tax taxes, tax payments because so far it has been measured only through support and AZTN has given its opinion whether this tax relief has been granted support or is illegal support that the recipient must return to the budget. Why am I telling you colleagues and colleagues? Well, because this government, in fact, this ruling coalition at the time of the adoption of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, was against that law. It's their legitimate political right. Also, if they thought that the law that was in force at that time could not be fulfilled in 2013, no one would prevent them from amending the Fiscal Responsibility Act. No one. They could have suggested, had enough hands in the air, could have changed it, but what is it? They would have to admit at the beginning of the year what they did not want to admit in the 10th month when it was white that there would be no economic growth and that the deficit of the state budget would be 16-17 billion kuna. So, by amending the Fiscal Responsibility Act, it would have been recognised 9-10 months earlier. Now, I do not intend to politicize you, colleagues and colleagues... would it be better if someone put down their ego and confessed up to 10 months earlier, and today had far fewer problems with cutting the expenditures of the state budget and thinking about how and how to fill the budget on the revenue side. Because look, the fiscal rule is a mathematical formula for which someone makes certain estimates that they can do at certain times. Although for us, I think Mr. Lalovac said this this morning, we can actually be applied to Article 3 paragraph 10 because it is an economic disorder in these relations when it comes to the Law on Fiscal Responsibility. So why am I saying all this and I'm going to end it, because unfortunately all of these measures that are now pushed as a problem of solving the excessive deficit are not the result of structural reforms, because when someone tells you that they're going to cut the wages by so much and so much, and it doesn't say what they're going to do or say that they're going to cut the material costs by a billion kuna, and it's well known that last year that everything was up to the maximum and that budget users couldn't pay what they have, that means that's not structural reform. The reduction in material costs is not structural reform. And we colleagues and colleagues no longer have problems with the 2014 budget, we have problems with the 2015 budget. Why? If paid, 10 days will be paid for February and you are already in place, you have reduced by 1/6 for the possibility of reducing certain expenditures. If you're going to touch certain rights and you've reduced it. Or let's say if you're thinking about reducing 10%, that's a 1.66 percentage point reduction. So every measure is delaying you create problems to reduce expenditure and there is a problem and this law is because this law was passed with a budget that we clearly said at the time of adoption that the budget is unsustainable and that the European Union will not accept. It is to us then... this law and I sincerely hope that if the Government is unable to comply with all the provisions of this law with the amendments to react, it is better to comply with this law now with what the Government wants to achieve than to... The fiscal responsibility law, and then in 3-4 months, we find that we cannot respect it because the propos a month ago assured us that economic growth would be 1.3, today the projections are 0.2. A few days ago, we were told that public companies will be the generator of economic development and the bearer of investment, today in public enterprises they are profiting and that I am not reading any further. I say, this law is the face of this government's politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68102	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused three replicas. First respected representative Kresimir Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68103	Thank you very much. I have to replicate to my colleague Shuker because I can't believe that the finance minister would do something that doesn't comply with the Constitution, which is to take away the savings of citizens in the second pillar. Inviolability of private ownership, Article 3. The constitution, which is very clear, clearly indicates that the finance minister as much as he wants what has been capitalised and so far put into that second pillar cannot be taken away from the citizens, but perhaps he can make a move for the future period. But if he makes that decision, then it's against the constitution, the inviolability of private property. But when we talk about adapting to the law deficit, then this is really the adjustment of the law deficit because the deficit is above all expectations, both in Croatia and those who watch us from the European Commission what is done in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68104	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68105	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Bubalo, I have therefore tried to plastically explain these measures that the Government has proposed today and the law that we should, in fact those who will vote for it on Friday, to simply show on a practical example how this law will apply to something that is close. It is indisputable that all the people who have the benefits of an internship, who are in the second pillar, have a private account. Will someone by amending the law say no, you more since you have a pension under special conditions defined by the Pension Insurance Act you will no longer pay into the second pillar of retirement but all the funds to pay your pensions will be secured in the first pillar and thus deny what you have said, the constitutional right to private property. It's all about whoever's proposing it. But it's also definitely a desperate move. But it stands, I keep saying, the question is, what about next year's budget, because expenditure will unfortunately not be reduced. 'Cause last year, all the bells were talking about how health care was being rehabilitated. There was some kind of HDZ debt, okay? Let it be. Someone has to pay for it and let it be HDZ. But since 6 months last year, medicines are not paid. Health care now has a billion and 300 billion, 400 minus, and every month it achieves 150 million minimum minus. And if it hadn't been for this strike and reduced activity in hospitals, that minus would have been bigger. So this budget with its expenditures that are planned to be reduced. You look, they're thinking of cutting the health budget by about 600 million, and with what they had last year they stayed a billion and 300 due. So that's why I'm saying, that's why the provision of this article is important, because at this very moment, it's just not supposed to be shriveled. At this point, the government must finally say this is the case, but the 2014 budget is the result of their work. That's no longer a legacy of this or that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68106	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68107	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Shuker, you've defined everything well and said. I would just point out one more thing, which is that because of the failure to comply with the current Fiscal Responsibility Act, what should not have happened, which is 5.5% of the budget or deficit in the budget, which clearly says that some ministers have wasted what they did not have in budget projections, and that is why, according to the current Fiscal Responsibility Act, they should bear sanctions, i.e. They were supposed to resign. In this respect, half of the government should also be resigned, given that they have crossed over. The fiscal responsibility must also apply to the cyclical spending that has taken place in the past tense. And cyclic spending took place in more than half of the ministries because they did not respect the law at all, thinking that what the former government passed and that it was in effect that it had absolutely nothing to do with the present and that there was no responsibility or sanctions for those who would act contrary to the Fiscal Responsibility Act. If you had applied that law, if everyone had followed the rules, tens of millions would not have been difficult to break the budget or the kind of measure we're going to have to put up with in this year. This is all clearly defined and I think it is also necessary to make it clear that changing the provisions of this law now will not help the responsibilities of those who have taken on fiscal responsibility and who should be held accountable under this current law. I hope they realize they're the cause of this more than 10 billion budget cuts.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68108	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68109	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Djakic, look, I don't think anyone would be happier than the finance minister if the Prime Minister had given him the support that other colleagues in the government have to abide by the Fiscal Responsibility Act, so no matter what HDZ brought it to him today would probably have far fewer headaches. But unfortunately, that's not what happened, and we've entered the scope of the excessive deficit. As I said, the law was passed because at the moment Croatia enters the EU, so that what happens to us will not happen to us. And this clearly shows something completely different. We forgot that during the discussion of the 2014 budget, everyone in the government was full of mouths that the problem of excessive deficit, the problem of public debt, the problem of the share of public debt in gross domestic product would be solved by monetization, concession, sales, cashing or how they would not already speak highways. But look, no one's talking about it now. Now there's a whole other story and it's just talking about one big inconsistencies. And when you add 2 billion more guarantees to HZ that will be charged tomorrow and will be a deficit of some kind in 2015, 2016, then these are additional problems. I'm just saying, there's a question, and it's the most embarrassing, most difficult thing for colleagues from the Ministry of Finance. What will happen to those who do not adhere to the Fiscal Responsibility Act?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68110	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the respected representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68111	Thank you. Well, I agree with a good part of what you said, but here's a few more leit motives for dialogue. For example, some mention that for citizens' associations in the Republic of Croatia, some 10 billion kuna are each year from the level of municipal budgets to the state. I don't know if that's the right information. Those are some estimates. About 10 billion kunas to total stand out for associations from the level of municipalities to the level of the state. So these are the estimates. Nobody in any way thinks at any level of practically local government whether there's room for us to actually achieve some savings. How much is total allocated for membership fees in all possible forms of chambers? I don't know if anyone has any information about how much Croatian citizens pay for membership in all possible forms of chambers. Now the question is very simple. Is it easier or harder to reduce wages and pensions or to two years, for example, by one measure, to reduce the allocations for associations and to abolish the membership obligation in any chamber? So, I'm talking about some crisis measures at all what we as a society can do at this time, and that's why I actually mentioned that it would be good for them, and in the interest of Croatian citizens that they're ready for some kind of at least dialogue, and that they don't at all show at all already that they are wise enough and promuting enough that the two of them, three of whom are being decided at this point and making decisions can make decisions and manage these 4.5 million inhabitants, and it is evident that this is not going to go and that this is going to harm Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68112	Thank you very much. They will respond to the replica of the respected representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68113	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Djurovic, I think this government has sent a clear message. By taking profits from public companies, she sent a message to the citizens that public companies will not cost you their services, but we will take it from you. The subject is a clear message. If anyone makes a decision suggests what they're going to do, you've said some of your ideas, probably someone else will say theirs. The government is the one who made political decisions and told her own. But what they said simply shows a lack of ideas, proves one unwillingness to reform, and the result is a 20 billion deficit. It has never been that big in history, as a result of this is the decline in credit rating, as a result that all those in Croatia should be in debt from citizens through businesses, public enterprises, local self-government units, the countries will pay more expensive interest. And if we're talking about economic recovery, if someone has expensive capital, how can they compete with someone with far cheaper capital? Therefore, the answers impose themselves, not to force them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68114	Thank you very much. The last individual debate on this point will be the respected representative of Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68115	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's what I'm saying. There's been a lot of talk today about responsibility. I think we, as Parliamentarians, are very much responsible for passing good and quality laws for the benefit and future of this country. Because whenever someone comes here to defend any legal proposal, the introduction seems to be in a way that we have these political elites, and today the deputy minister has repeated it, they say it's hard for us, that our situation is bad and that we don't have a lot of choices or we don't have it at all. And then they send a message on the side that there's no alternative in a failed policy like this. It's defetism, severe depression. Imagine that a government that has these successes, even better said failures, has no alternative. And so this law, we have no alternatives. And this country is a state of young democracy. It was created by the desire of the Croats for freedom and a happy life in this free modern and orderly state. It was created thanks to the determination of Croatian citizens, political wisdom and the ability of the first Croatian president, Dr. Franjo Tudjman, thanks to Croatian defenders, thanks to those who gave the most, and these are those who gave and woven their lives for the centuries' sleep of many generations who unfortunately failed to experience the state. There have been difficult and difficult situations in life over the centuries than today. States and arrangements changed, but we survived as a people. Today we are talking about the Law on Fiscal Responsibility, a law whose adoption of a minister, i.e. the Deputy Minister described as a difficult job due to poor economic opportunities. So have we ever lived in this area on perfect economic occasions with the well-being of an ordinary man, a retired, with the well-being of workers? I don't know, we didn't. Let us remember a little better or a little worse standards depending on the times we call upon. Have we always been able to do everything the easiest way? I don't think so. It always took effort, knowledge, wisdom and responsibility for what was done, but also for what was not done. So what's the problem? I see the problem in the current ruling political elite that has begun to lose the battle with the policy itself. They are always surprised by the effect of the measures they are proposing or taking, and then it is justified in one way that has never been seen before. It's always some bad legacy, it's some bad moves, it's the government from the '90s, it's the last government from 2011, it's always someone else's fault. The inability of the authorities to face their own mistakes and responsibilities began to frustrated Croatian citizens. They do not want to be given a voice, and they gave a voice to the Kukurik coalition to convince them that they actually gave that voice to the opposition that should be held accountable, that that voice was given by the authorities who only intended for themselves to take the prey, to take the chairs and the privileges, and always someone else is responsible. They suggest to the Croatian public that this country should be led by opposition, modern societies do not recognize it. It can't be recognized by any ordinary local self-government unit, being led out of opposition. Unfortunately, that's been suggested all these years. And so this law, it has become a burden to this authority. He makes it impossible for them to implement policies, which is why they adapt it to their failures. And then it doesn't suit them. He needs to be changed all the time, and it would be best if he wasn't here, and we can't even put him down. I think we agree, Deputy, because whenever there's a problem, we change the fiscal responsibility law. The current current current government did not want the same law in opposition either. They didn't vote for him back then, and today they do too. So the question arises whether anyone has ever found responsibility for any area of action, for any move, for any policy until the 1990s. I don't think there's one in this country yet. No Croatian left has ever been able to determine responsibility for everything that has happened in the past decades. How are we going to determine fiscal responsibility in the first place? That's an obvious question. Does the modern Croatian left have the awareness that the nobility that it commits to and speaks to their president contains large amounts of responsibility right in the court of the Kukuriku Coalition. Because nobility is binding. I hope it doesn't commit in a way that we don't have a responsibility. Because if that were the case, and if that were the kind of nobility that should be, then today, in accordance with the Fiscal Responsibility Act, at least three ministers wouldn't be ministers, they'd be sitting here in the parliamentary benches. These are those who were fiscally irresponsible in the 2013 Budget. They exceeded education salaries, the police and the finance minister themselves, who exceeded all expectations in terms of fiscal income and fiscal expenditure. It's the only truth, everything else is just cheating on itself and the whole people. And as follows, Article 5a also says paragraph 1 "Fiscal planning is based on realistic macroeconomic and budgetary projections using the latest available information." In this country, a sport has developed that assesses how much will develop or how much GDP will grow in each year that comes. The GDP is determined on the political elites every month, so we testify that it should have been both 2 and 1.7 and 1.5 as it comes to the end of the year it falls to 0, and then when it is debated, it is fat in the down. And so for the second year in a row. That's unserious. This is exactly the kind of article that makes it possible for me already in two years in a few months, for which we will discuss the sixth time in 10 days about the state budget. This has not yet happened in the history of the Croatian state to discuss the state budget six times in two years. We haven't brought it yet, we're changing it. What does Article 8 say? The fiscal rule referred to in Article 4 of this Act shall not apply in cases of disaster and major economic disturbances. Have we defined what a disaster is? Here's a colleague who says it's the current condition. I'm adding maybe the disaster is the current government. We're not going to apply that rule right now if the government is a disaster. It can be read like that. It always leaves them the opportunity to do whatever they want, whatever they want, and they're really right, and those who said this is the Law on fiscal irresponsibility. Responsibilities to the people, to those who gave them the mandate, and so I suggested to the prime minister to establish that ministry of foreign responsibility that, in addition to that welcoming office that welcomes everyone who comes to this country, we also have a ministry that will determine who's to blame for why we're doing this today. Because when we hear the deputy minister who says that our halls have become a burden to us, that infrastructure is a burden to us, that the railroad is a burden to us, that everything we've built is really a question of why all this talk, why investment in infrastructure when it's always a burden to us. And we're not burdened by consultants to which we give 100 or 200 million kuna a year, that's not a burden. But when we single out so much for the hall, it's a burden. We have simple solutions that so far have become more complicated. Looking at what public companies are doing today we are just an example of Croatian mail we no longer know how to bring a letter to the user without causing the user's reaction. that they don't write objections. Something that was just as complicated as this whole system that we're all feeling a problem at all and we're all complaining to someone. Unfortunately, I say and this law does not contribute to what it should be intended for, and that is responsibility because it does not recognise punishment, it recognizes nothing that should apply to the current political elite.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68116	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused quite a number of replicas. The first is the respected representative of Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68117	Dear colleague Boric, you said I'd quote you that's defetism and that the government is sending a message that she has no alternative. I don't think you're right about that because today Minister Linic at the press conference confirmed that this government really has no alternative since it trusts to increase the revenue side of the budget based on the gambling tax. On the other hand, we also heard the Prime Minister who has no alternative here in the House recently that he will not be touched in the second pillar. Today, his minister says he will particularly regulate pension payments for people with an underprivileged job experience, and pensioners from the second pension post are moving to the first pension column. We also listened to real estate tax announcements here in the House, so it will be, so it won't be, but then by 2016 we have the freshest information that companies will get, that you and other colleagues have talked about, that the company owns units of local self-government and the state enters the budget of the state. With gambling and retirement stakes, the revenue side will increase by 4.7 billion kuna, and that's exactly what's denying you that this government has no alternative. I don't think there really is one in this situation with this kind of thinking. But what's going to hit all of our citizens and it's going to hit them hard to stop investment because companies won't have the funds for new investments that our citizens are going to feel very strongly about this spilling from a second pension stake. But in any case, the finance minister is what Mr. Schucker said the ministry is here in the most difficult position, and they need to be understood because they have to fill all these holes like any head of finance in the local self-government, someone's spending, someone's throwing themselves away, someone has no visions and ideas and they're the ones who have to fill it out. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68118	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond, and I ask him to stick to the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68119	Thank you very much. There's an alternative in this country, there's always going to be, and in the future, that's what those who don't agree say never with their thoughts, but I'm troubled by something else, which we're testifying that already half the term has passed, passed on and on, this government has not structurally appointed itself as power at all. It continues to establish new institutions, new agencies, transfer, shorten. It simply cannot be structurally established so that it can behave normally and the laws that would come again in the sense that they constantly need another new body to implement their own policies, should be done in normal government in about six months. We're testifying after two years that it's not over and we're still going to start an agency and we're still going to start some bodies and we're still going to have to transfer a number of people somewhere to do something and they're always a failure. And when you can't face the fact that you're a failure, then you're changing a law like this that makes you successful, that you're responsible, because no one can reconcile it, and neither can the finance minister, and we're coming where we are, that we're in negatives, that we don't know what we're going to do, and then we're coming here to talk about how difficult it is, how we can't do anything anymore, how we've become a state that can't solve the simplest problem, to operate on a man's eye, it takes a year and a half days. If we can't do this, the responsible authority who feels responsible as if it were their own trait would go and say I'm giving someone else a chance. Unfortunately, we can't hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68120	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68121	Here's my colleague, the policy path has made me a couple of times in Turkey and Turkey over the last eight years between and 5-8% of the rate and imagine a country that has grown about 50% for eight years, and imagine now compared to our country that has been atrophied for about 11, 12% over the past six years. One society that heats up where the young force pro-pulsively opens up new jobs and then one such state and society that dies, where less and less people work and where virtually auto-destruction is present. In your historical review, you spoke of the left’s historical responsibility. I can't get around it when we talk about this historian, when I look at these 23 years of the Croatian state and we talk about the historical responsibility of the right hand that led this country to this larger period and which allowed in this country in 23 years the employment ratio and the number of pensioners from 3.0 at the moment of the formation of the state to 1.10, from 2 million employees of the 90s to fall to a million and 350 thousand today, where this so-called right hand predominantly led that country which allowed this nation to die away, that this country be one of the few European states that today have a negative rate of its birth. The responsibility is when we speak to the future right, and now we're talking to you and us, our responsibility as a future right, and we never again allow in times that come to these significant topics that actually induce all these problems that we as a society face, to continue in the future these processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68122	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68123	My colleague Đurovic, I understand what you wanted to say, but I was saying it because we have been hearing for the past two years about this government being responsible for nothing. It's not just today's debate. Those are the questions in the current class. These are always issues to run from because space is always found to say it's always someone else and it's their right to take prey, take chairs and privileges, and then this country is led out of opposition and this modern democracy and modern societies don't recognize. That's why I talked about it that way. I'm concerned about this situation and it doesn't matter what kind of society we're going to live in but looking at the direction of this policy that this law also adapts to its failure in order for it to be some sort of passage below some of the lowest level of responsibility shows that there simply has to be a quick change or some going away from these positions. It is the only message to go towards Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68124	The next replica of Đurjica Sumrak's respected MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68125	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Boris, I must say that you have very well identified the problem, unfortunately there will probably be criticism in your account now and probably already from the prime minister. Because there's really no responsibility here in this government, they're hard to be responsible for because they're looking somewhere far away in some mass, they're looking for responsibility among workers who would work and that's what they'd like to pay, among the teachers, among the doctors who need to operate, and that's what they want some pay for. The responsibility they seek among young people who have no job, the responsibility they seek among all, and of course they are, that's what you're saying the burden. And you see, this government is so generous when it comes to the location of seven million kuna taxpayers, one private consulting firm whose task is to watch out for fellow Boric just counseling in selecting concessionaires for the great Brijuni. On the other hand, it's restrictive to everything you've been saying. And look at how many new agencies are there, how many new people are employed in two ministries? So is it possible that there are no professional people in our Croatia who can be advisors in terms of choice, concessionaries for Great Briun? Can't that 7 million kuna be invested, for example? in central Slavonia or in some area to be helped? But here's the thing about this fiscal responsibility bill, so we've seen a very bright example in the media of 220 thousand kuna for the Greek tea kitchen. This is a disgrace today. I can be ashamed of all those who have nothing to eat, in front of 380 thousand unemployed in front of 51% of young people who can't work, in front of pensioners. So take a look at this colleague every Monday to 8 o'clock, and make sure you get me some cakes, waffles, grapes, apples, Idared, and give me the one with the usual water that tastes like lime, blueberry, and don't forget to bring me pot, etc. Please and waffles and all that to wait for me. Well, the disaster is this government, the burden of this government to the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68126	Thank you very much. I'm asking you again to stick to the weather. And Joseph Boric will answer with respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68127	Thank you very much, colleague. Well, the likely minister keeps thinking about cake when he likes cake, he said. But he said that this kitchen is profitable and that's good. If that's the case, it better be. But something else bothers me, it is when the authorities themselves make statements of the prime minister's type "and that I'm doing nothing will happen". Is this the Fiscal Responsibility Act? And if I didn't do anything, something would happen. Or when a colleague from the bench says "I don't believe I know the goal or understand the direction in which this government is going," those are government statements. So how do we understand that direction, to see that goal when even those who are ruling don't understand it? It's a basic problem, but there's no responsibility. And every government when it gets a chance, and that's an honor, should try to keep it remembered for something, that someone remembers it for the next 20 years. The Prime Minister himself says I don't want anyone to remember me by anything. In some game of association, what are we going to remember this government by? So let's think about it for ourselves. I can remember not knowing about the irresponsibility, unemployment, conflicts of interest, pre-banking deals, here's maybe one feature of this government, pre-fashion settlement. Health education, abolished patronage of the Parliament over the anniversary of Bleiburg's marking, credit rating junk. It's something we'll remember in maybe 20 years. VAT 25%. That's what anyone who deals with public affairs should be a particular goal, and I don't want anyone to remember me by anything. And then my God, we tried so hard to sit in these chairs that depend on the lives of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68128	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68129	Thank you very much. You said you thought this government had no alternative. This alternative has no solution, and this government has an excellent alternative because for the existing state there is always a solution and there are better variations. But what's constant and you've pointed out is irresponsibility. And who's responsible for the state? Well, the government, the government and only the government. Everything that happens is always the government, not just today, but always any government in power. The institutions are also responsible, but there are no responsibilities with the government because it proposes such budgets, neither is the Croatian National Bank because it is not interested in what is happening on the financial market, nor is it with employers. Just remember what happened in Jadrankamen in Kamensko, KIO, Dalmatia, none of the state institutions responded as asked of it, none. 16 billion kunas have not been paid to contribute to pension and health, no one has responded to this except in one case Jelena Braša, the wonders of Caritas, the only one convicted of 3 million kunas and 16 billion kunas not charged. The state splits and falls apart, the budget shoots, and when the state's budget shoots, and only the demagogue can hear, it would have been worse if we hadn't taken some measures. Whoever hopes to feed on the fruits of this government will be constantly hungry, if he drinks their water he will remain forever thirsty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68130	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68131	Thank you. Well, that's exactly what I was talking about, because all I heard from the deputies is that everything we do is a burden or what we did before, that it's now a great burden that creates problems and deficits. So he listed the halls, I quote highways, and then I ask a question, and why would they reconstruct the Rijeka-Zagreb-Botovo railway line if HZ Cargo went bankrupt and failed? Then who are we doing it for? Then who's gonna be an HH operator? Will it be Deutsche Bank, Austrian railways, Hungarian, Romanian and we will invest our resources and resources in the wrong way. Well, then we give them to someone if they bother us. When we warned that the restructuring they themselves cited from 5 to 3 companies would lead to a problem HZ Cargo took place after a year after taking over excess workers from other parts and became a burden to a company that was profitable and which could earn for its salary and for its business. It's a fact today. And what happens to us on the other side? We have positions in the state budget for the privatisation of HPB 28 or 29 million kuna. This privatisation has failed. I'm asking the Deputy Minister if you'll pay the consultants the funds. Are we going to pay off these funds despite the fact that the privatisation of the Croatian Post Bank has failed? It didn't happen. Or they'll try again and they'll give it to them for a new try.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68132	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Maria Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68133	Comrade Boric, here you are in your presentation, wondering how in the last two years the budget has changed several times. Well, I'd like to see you here, and I'd refer to that surprise of yours, and I'd say that I'm just as surprised that there's never been a party in history on an indictee bench like that HDZ. It has also never happened that the prime minister on the defendant's bench has been accused of various embezzlements. So I would call it that disaster you were talking about before, and not that it's a disaster the government that's been solving is correcting everything that you've devastated for years. And so also when you talk about a different memory that people will remember this or that I would point out that also these citizens of this country will surely remember all of your famous moves for a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68134	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Josip Boric will answer and I ask that we stick to the topic. The subject is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fiscal Responsibility. We've gone in a lot of different directions. Please, let's stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68135	Dear Vice President, we stick to the subject, I think the subject, Mr. Habek spoke of responsibility. All those you've listed as being on the defendant's bench have not avoided responsibility, their responsibility is determined by the court. And we're talking about the fiscal responsibility law here where there are no more penalties. What is this fine of some kind? Did Minister Jovanovic answer because he broke the budget for 500m kuna, he was to pass the mandate to the prime minister by law and leave. He didn't follow the law. And that's why I said that the historical left is impossible to determine responsibility for anything. It's been so far, maybe some more time, whether it'll be a practice in the future, it'll show time. I won't judge in advance, but the responsibility of those you've listed has been avoided by no one. That's the difference. And you tried, for example, to avoid one man to that responsibility. Unfortunately, it happened quite the opposite for you. He's where he is now, and responsibility will be determined by another state. What will come out of it will show time. We won't predict it, but there'll probably be some interesting events.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68136	The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68137	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, in today's debate today, it is evident that you have analysed thoroughly that these are the reasons for the amendments to this Law on fiscal responsibility and why they are coming, why they are coming right now. Well, because just now a new year has come and mandates should be handed over to the Prime Minister to be made available under the current fiscal responsibility law. None of these are facts that would talk about the existence in this current Fiscal Responsibility Act of some kind of pro-turetic or disabling the action of a fiscal policy that is so developmental and congestive. It's not there. Of course not, this law and amendments want to avoid responsibility for the past two years when the deficit occurred. And that is the only real reason he wants to manipulate himself and show himself to be saved by this law of crisis and that these money will put or change and supplemental action pro-recessional. There will be no recession after the adoption of this Act. Well, of course not. So, of course, that measures the government's policy, the ministry, the inspection of the finance ministry, which so bombist minister Linic announced where they were? Well, nowhere. Well, we'd have to sanction everything of ours, disband them, and send them home because half and half of them who went beyond the measures they had in the budget and spent more than they had. And that's the reason for the deficit that went over 5.5%. And with that, he wants to cloud the public and the citizens so we don't call them. Well, of course we're going to call, we're going to ask for responsibility for what they did against the law, and it can't be retroactively saved by new laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68138	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Josip Boric will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68139	So is fellow Djakić because we testify to one amazing fact, absurdity, by revenue last year was more generous than in 2011 where all the salaries with all the accessories were paid, all collective contracts, border contracts, social benefits, etc. with an income of 107 billion. And all I'm saying with 109 is the state's revenues, not the total budget, there's nothing more we can do. So that's why I asked the question of what kind of state we've now created and organized over the past two years. Did she get more expensive than she did before with all the rights that are smaller? The salaries are lower, privileged pensions are lower, and we can't pay anything. ... Yeah, and pensions under a special regulation, yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So we could do anything with 107 and with 109, we can't do anything in the same country with a smaller number of people. And on the stock market, more and more people are blocked and there's nothing we can do. So that's the question of what kind of system we've created in two years. Did we need a revolution of some kind of tax policy that was being implemented or that needed to upgrade the system the way it was with some different minor changes? Did we need a 25% VAT right away, if we need the instability of that tax system to pay the catering service at 25% per year, then 10%, and now 13%. So what kind of politics is that? It's "keep the water while the masters leave," and then what, is that it? I think this people don't deserve it, and that's why I told the Prime Minister, it would be correct and fine to resign or to change something in that policy, and not to come here and we're always having a hard time and we're in a specific situation and we can't do anything, and then we expect our people to be optimistic and everyone else is guilty.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68140	Thank you very much. Here with these replicas and the reply to the replica we have completed the debate on the text of this law, and we will vote on it when the terms are obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68141	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fiscal Responsibility Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 499. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes were 83 votes in favour and 21 votes against the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fiscal Responsibility Act in the text, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68142	The next is the - Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters as amended and supplemented by the Protocol amending and supplementing the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 597 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You also received reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Nobody's answering. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. So far, no one's reported for a hearing. Since no one appears to be answering for the debate, I conclude that the debate on the text of this law is over and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68143	The final proposal for a law confirming the Convention on mutual administrative assistance in tax matters as amended and supplemented by the Protocol amending and supplementing the Convention on mutual administrative assistance in tax matters, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 597. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I say we've brought the 597 bill unanimously with 105 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68144	We would now move on to the next law, which is - The final bill on amendments to the Law on the restoration of the endangered monumental unit of Dubrovnik, second reading, PZ No. 393 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the following committees: Legislative Committee, Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Committee on Environmental Protection, Nature, Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received reports from those committees at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Here you go. Professor Berislav Shipus, Deputy Minister of Culture, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68145	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Very short on the draft final draft law amending the Law on the restoration of the endangered monumental unit of Dubrovnik. These amendments will deal with the following issues, notably the implementation of the activities of Dubrovnik's Institute for Reconstruction in line with the change in the legal rules that took place in the meantime. These are the rules in the area of construction and spatial planning and in accordance with previous experience of carrying out activities. Provisions on the founding interests of the Dubrovnik Institute are also changed in a way that the founders of the Institute will be the Republic of Croatia with a share of 35%, the city of Dubrovnik with a share of 55%, Dubrovnik-Neretva County with a share of 10%. The number of members of the Governing Council is changed in a way that will increase the current five members to 7 members, of which the president and 2 members will appoint and resolve the mayor of the city of Dubrovnik, 2 members are appointed and resolved by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, by one member of the mayor of Dubrovnik-Neretva County and employees of Dubrovnik's Institute of Reconstruction. A provision is amended to regulate the composition of the expert advisory commission in such a way as to appoint experts from the field of protection of construction heritage, and one representative is appointed by the central body of the state administration responsible for culture, environmental protection and nature, for construction and spatial planning, then the City of Dubrovnik, the Croatian Chamber of Architects, the Croatian Chamber of Engineers of Construction, the Association of conservators of Croatia and the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquity. It also amends a provision laying down the conditions to be met by the Director of the Institute in order to comply with the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. The Institute for the Reconstruction of Dubrovnik will be financed by the funds provided in the founder's budget in such a way that the funds for wages and material costs are provided in accordance with their founding shares, and for the protection programmes of cultural goods, the city of Dubrovnik ensures that tickets for the tour of the city walls are sold. The transitional provisions stipulate that on the day of entry into force of this law management and management of the Dubrovnik city walls as public goods in general use, the city of Dubrovnik is being taken over and all rights of third parties who have used, managed or controlled the city walls on any basis. Since the date of entry into force of this law without legal effect, all legal transactions have been concluded for the purpose of the management, use or management of old walls. Exceptionally, contracts for the lease of business spaces and surfaces on the old walls which were concluded by the Association of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities with third parties remain in force, with the city of Dubrovnik entering the legal position of the tenant. The company of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquity is obliged to transfer to the town of Dubrovnik an old wall, i.e. all properties of Dubrovnik's fortification system that it benefits and manages, which are owned by the city of Dubrovnik within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law with the whole documentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68146	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is the respected representative of Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68147	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy Minister with Associates. I will only refer to one part where we will have opportunities later to finance programs for the reconstruction of the endangered monumental city of Dubrovnik. So, every year, apart from the funds that amounted to 50% net of the income from Dubrovnik walls that were automatically invested in the restoration of the cultural goods of the city of Dubrovnik and what we mean by the former Republic of Dubrovnik. In addition, the Ministry of Culture spent almost every year between 4 and a half from its programme funds, at the best age and up to 6 million kuna. Only in this sentence, what Mr. Deputy Minister said lost the city of Dubrovnik immediately, automatically this amount for the restoration of cultural goods at the beginning. I think it is for anyone who cares little about heritage, who even knows little about what the protected urban unit represents, so if you want as one and a promoter of Croatia, it means only reducing these funds in the beginning regardless of those other provisions that will also have financial repercusions on the restoration of the protected whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68148	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68149	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Vice-President, the amendment of this law comes down to one thing, which is that this law documents a contract between the city of Dubrovnik and the Society of drinkers of Dubrovnik's antiquities, which has been managed by the city walls for 62 years, and the 2009 contract signed by the current mayor of Dubrovnik with the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's Ancients and the contract is valid until 2019. So, by this law, we're docking that contract now. And it would be correct, Mr. Deputy Minister, if you had made the most important provision of this Act in your opening section and had met representatives in the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public, which is why, which is why the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Culture has directed this law to abolish this legally valid contract between the city of Dubrovnik and the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities. It would be good if that was the way the debate on this law was opened, because everything else written in this law is solely in the function that the city of Dubrovnik can then take over the management of city walls and the availability of city walls that the city council's decision management is left to that same Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities until 2019, and with today the Society manages and disposes the foundations of earlier contracts 62 years. So, it was correct of you to say in the opening section what reasons led the government to put such a contract out of force with such a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68150	Okay. Thank you very much. Now we'd move on to a discussion on behalf of the clubs and the first one would be on behalf of the Representatives' Club, and I'm sorry. The committees, that's right. Well, then, do we have any representatives of the board who want to take a word for it? Here's your Honorable representative, Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68151	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. On 12 December of last year, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction shall consider this proposal as a home working body. In her opening presentation, she was an assistant minister of culture. She pointed out that this proposed legal text is a new way to regulate the management of the Dubrovnik Management Office, to change the composition of the Professional and Advisory Committee of the Institute, to change the management and management authority of the Dubrovnik Hortification System, and the way in which the Institute for Reconstruction of Dubrovnik is financed. The founders of the Institute are the Republic of Croatia with a share of 35%, the city of Dubrovnik 55% and Dubrovnik-Neretva County with 10% and the funds are provided according to founding shares. In the debate, the president of the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquities took the same word. He pointed out that the Society has been operating for 62 years, that it manages and lords the city walls by virtue of a contract concluded between the city of Dubrovnik and the Society, that it is proud of the results it has achieved and that it regrets that the proposed law terminates the contract without the right to judicial protection or to show the City Council of Dubrovnik. The debate also requested that the percentage of the allocation for cultural monument protection programmes and funds provided by the city of Dubrovnik be reviewed from that total net income of at least 50% of the revenue that the city of Dubrovnik receives from the sale of tickets for the tour of these walls. The opinion was also expressed that it should not be in the proposed text of the name of the law proposed as a Law on the restoration of Dubrovnik's monumental unit and other immovable cultural goods in the Dubrovnik area, so that it should not be left out of the term not only because of the earthquake it has damaged but also because of the latent potential danger that the entire area is located in the ninth and tenth seismic zone, but also because this heritage is damaged and war destruction at the time of the aggression on the Republic of Croatia, and also because the facilities are used by numerous visitors. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that the proposed formulation of the threat is also a more high-quality application for the application of EU funds. With 6 votes for, 1 against and 1 abstention, the Committee proposed to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of a law amending the Law on the restoration of the endangered monumental unit of Dubrovnik, together with the following amendments. So first, Article 1. In Article 1, in the name of the law behind the word renewal, the word threatened is added, saying: "The law on the restoration of the endangered monument of Dubrovnik and other immovable cultural goods in the vicinity of Dubrovnik." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68152	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection, the word will be taken by the honourable representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68153	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy, Your Honor, This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed final draft law as an interested working body. In its opening statement, the proposing representatives presented the differences between the solutions proposed by the final draft law in relation to the solutions set out in the draft law. The Committee was attended by the President of the Association of Friends of the Dubrovnik Antiquity and expressed regret that the applicant did not adopt a number of remarks made on the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection, the Committee on Law and the Committee on Education, Science and Culture when discussing the draft law in the first reading. The president of the company reiterated that the management and management of the city walls was regulated by a contract concluded between the city of Dubrovnik as the owner of the walls on the one hand and the Association of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities on the other. This contractual relationship is based on the City Council's decision made on the Mayor of Dubrovnik's proposal. He pointed out that the company has been successful for 62 years. He warned that the proposed law terminating that contract in favour of one of the Contracting Parties and without the right to judicial protection constitutes a dangerous precedent in legal practice. This is the more obvious thing about the proposed law of the City Council of Dubrovnik. He pointed out that the proposed law is unacceptable from a constitutional and legal aspect and assessed that it would also show a verification of the constitutionality of this law. It also referred to the provisions of Article 36 of which, in particular, set out the provisions which defined the company's obligation to hand over all the documents in possession of the city of Dubrovnik as well as the whole and the basis of a valid contract of legally acquired cash. Following the opening argument in the debate, the part of the board expressed the view that the reasoning of the proposed law does not offer arguments that would indicate the need and justification for the adoption of such a law. It has been pointed out that in 62 years, that society has proved itself to be a legal person who systematically and qualitatively manages and lords the city walls and other objects of the cultural historical heritage of the Dubrovnik Republic. In this sense, the representative of the Ministry of Culture has been asked to clarify whether the reason for the adoption of this law is possible dissatisfaction of the Ministry of Culture with the state of the city walls? Attending representative of the Ministry of Culture pointed out that the Ministry of Culture was satisfied with the state of the city walls and the Stone Walls, but that this was about the cultural heritage of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County and the change of roles, i.e. extending the powers of the institute. In the context of this new role of the Institute in the follow-up of the debate, it is questionable to assess the financing of other units of local self-government, such as the Stone Walls from the Dubrovnik City Budget. Also discussed is the transparency of the cost of 50% of the net income the city of Dubrovnik receives from the sale of tickets to the entrance of city walls. It was warned that during the debate in the first reading, the need for the city of Dubrovnik to provide complete information on the consumption of those funds was stressed. In this context, the president of the company pointed out that the company regularly provided the City Council with a report on the cost of 50% of the ticket sales available to the company and stressed that the City Council had no objections to those reports so far. It also draws attention to the provisions of Article 9 amending Article 11 of the applicable law in the section in which the founders of the Institute and their shares are regulated. It was warned of a change in the second reading compared to the first reading. In contrast to the first reading in which the 60 % share of the Republic of Dubrovnik was proposed, Dubrovnik city of 30% and Dubrovnik-Neretva County of 10% in the second reading, this ratio was changed in favour of the city of Dubrovnik, whose share was 55%. With this change in which the majority share takes over the city of Dubrovnik remains questionable both in the first and second readings proposed and no justified reduction in the share of Dubrovnik-Neretva County from 20%. Part of the board supported the proposed law and pointed out that especially in terms of decentralisation, the legitimate requirement of the local self-government unit is to have its most valuable resources. In this regard, it is called on to support the proposed law and position of the Ministry of Culture and the City of Dubrovnik, followed by a debate that stressed that the assessment of the justification of this law should bear in mind that it is a contract which is not imposed at local level. The city of Dubrovnik is already subject to a contract that was concluded and then amended in 2009 by the City Council decision. It was once again warned that the proposer of this law was not the city of Dubrovnik but the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that the City Council was not manifested on this bill. After the discussion, the Committee did not set its position in support of the adoption of this law because the votes of the 12 members present were divided and 6 votes were abstentioned by, 5 against and 1 vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68154	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the word will be taken by the distinguished representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68155	Thank you, Vice President. Here's to the fact that my colleagues filed reports with other committees, so I'll cut it short. Therefore, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament at the 36th session of the 10th December 2013 discussed the second reading of the proposal of the Law amending the Law on the restoration of the endangered monumental part of Dubrovnik as a parent body. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative cited the differences between the solutions attached to the final draft of the law in relation to the solutions set out in the first draft of the law or first reading, which were also discussed by colleagues from other committees. However, significant remarks have been made in the debate on the draft law. Some members of the board warned that implementation of certain provisions would contribute to the violation of the principle of government trinity, in particular the provisions of the proposals that retroactively abolish the effects of legal transactions concluded among third parties. Since certain provisions of the proposal do not comply with the provisions of the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of Cultural Goods, observations have also been made to the provisions of Articles 2 and 3 of the second reading of the Law. In part of the debate in cultural monument protection programmes, the proposal to establish the obligation of the city of Dubrovnik, that the funds from the sale of tickets for the tour of city walls must be spent in monumental heritage, was also shown to regret that, in accordance with the agreement on the proposed proposal, this committee did not hold a thematic session. The Committee also held a vote and by a majority of votes of 6 for and 1 abstention and 4 against the Committee has decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law amending the Law on the Reconstruction and Threatening of the Monument of Dubrovnik, subject to the adoption of amendments to Article 32 and Article 32, and the amended Article 43 paragraph 2 is amended as follows: "For cultural monument protection programmes, the funds provide the city of Dubrovnik with a total net income of at least 50% of the net revenue achieved by the city of Dubrovnik from the sale of tickets for the tour of city walls including the following costs: geological, geomechanical and construction and other research that precedes the restoration of buildings and space within the monumental unit with... Within the monumental unit, construction and resolution of the municipal infrastructure of the monumental unit, production of studies, programmes, projects, technical and other professional documentation during the preparation phase.". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The proposed amendment therefore further states that the city of Dubrovnik provides for at least 50% of the net revenue generated from tickets when visiting the walls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68156	Thank you very much. Here's the debate. And the first one, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, will speak, share the time of the distinguished representative Bačić and the representative Mesic. Here's your esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68157	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Deputy with an associate, respected colleague and colleague, the HDZ Club will not support the proposal Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Reconstruction of the Threatened Monument of Dubrovnik, and I will give a few reasons. The first reason is because the proposed law is anti-constitutional and harmful. In fact, it violates the principle of government tridivision, the legislator assumes the role of the judicial body because the proposed law is in breach of the independence of the judiciary and represents a dangerous precedent in legal practice in the Republic of Croatia. This law enters into a civil legal relationship between the two legal persons who have regulated this legal relationship by mutual agreement and in the case of disputes have negotiated the jurisdiction of the judicial authority i.e. The competent municipal court in Dubrovnik. Therefore, it is legally unacceptable to break an individual contract or a specific legal transaction concluded among third parties because this would constitute a harsh violation of the basic legal order postulates of each regulated state, the principle of the government's trinition by the adoption of judicial powers and constitutional principles of legality and legal certainty, because the termination of individual legal work may be exclusively by the contracting parties and in the case of a dispute by the competent court. In particular, in the case of the Republic of Croatia or the Ministry of Culture, it is not the contractual side of the contract that this law intends to terminate but it is the city of Dubrovnik and the society of friends of Dubrovnik antiquity and the unconstitutional provision under which the Ministry of Culture, as the body of the executive authority, is assigned to matters of judicial jurisdiction, which are unnecessary to comment. We note that the Dubrovnik Walls in land books are registered as property of the city of Dubrovnik following which the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the Ministry of Culture, is not legally authorised to dispose of them, but in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, it is authorised to do so exclusively by the City Council of Dubrovnik, the City Council of Dubrovnik has never participated in a public debate on the adoption of laws of such content, nor has it decided to transfer ownership powers on city walls to the Government of the Republic of Dubrovnik. Therefore, at the HDZ Club, we call on the Government to listen to these remarks of the profession and to withdraw the proposed law from the adoption procedure in order not to come into the position of the Constitutional Court to tear down this law as was the case with the provisions of the Law on Value Added Tax, the Law on Income Tax, the Curriculum of Health Education in Primary and Secondary Schools, the Act of the Ministry of Science and Education and Sports of the Republic of Croatia in connection with the harmonisation of new textbooks with the spelling or attempt to repeal the Croatian Assembly's decision to call a state referendum on the definition of marriage. We propose to the government to withdraw this law so that we will not be in a position again that the Constitutional Court, because of its legal and professionally-founded decisions, calls it politically colored. Another reason is the fact that this law is contradictory or inconclusive. What is the contradiction of this law? According to the applicable law in Article 1(3), it is regulated that the provisions of this law relating to the restoration of the monumental unit apply also to the restoration of summer homes and other immovable cultural goods in the area of the ninth seismic zone involving the river Dubrovačka, Župa Dubrovačka, Konavle, Elafite and the Dubrovnik coast, i.e. almost in the area of the entire former Dubrovnik Republic. As the Law on districts, towns and municipalities today extends several units of local self-government of the municipalities of Konavle, the city of Dubrovnik, the municipality of Zupa Dubrovačka, the municipality of Dubrovnik coast and the municipality of Ston, according to the proposal to amend and supplement this law, the total financing of renovations and monumental totals established from the Dubrovnik City budget is thus prohibited from the Mayor of Dubrovnik by law from investing in other units of local self-government as provided for by this law. This means that the institution can no longer finance the entire cultural heritage under this law as defined in Article 1 of the relevant law. Furthermore, the proposed law is contrary to the Strategy for Protection, Conservation and Sustainable Economic Development. If any of us Assembly representatives or the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and now visit the website of the Ministry of Culture, then you would read that on your site, Mr. Deputy, today it can be read from a strategy that says, "How is the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities pointed out as a visual model which is specifically referred to comparable European practices because, for 40 years now, the contract with the city of Dubrovnik has managed city walls, collected revenue from tickets, and all the funds collected are invested back in the restoration of monuments, which is certainly one of the most successful and most recent examples of sustainable use of cultural heritage." On the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection and asked representatives of the Ministry of Culture whether the reason for the adoption of this law was the dissatisfaction of the Ministry of Culture with the state of the City Walls of Dubrovnik. However, the representative of the Ministry of Culture said that the Ministry of Culture is very pleased with the state of the city and the stone walls. So instead of rewarding society for such work over the past 60 years, this law prohibits further action in the case of Dubrovnik antiquities, and the property is confiscated in accordance with Article 36 of the same law. It should be borne in mind that this law did not support either the profession and, in that sense, should specifically single out the assessment of the Society of historians and conservatives of Croatia asking the Government not to pass this law and to give up the confiscation of walls to the Association of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities. Furthermore, about the double archeologist conducted by the Ministry of Culture, the best information is that the Minister of Culture Mrs. Andrea Zlatar Violić in Sibenik provided funds to the Youth Association for the maintenance of the Barone Fortress and in such a way as to commend this same society of funds that should be maintained by the Sibenik City Walls and Fortress, while at the same time this law is a company that has been irrefutable for 62 years now, I would say, I would maintain Dubrovnik's cultural and construction heritage by this law, and this same society is being disproved by law. We are also not clear which reasons have led the government to reduce the share of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County, which by this day or tomorrow, if the law is adopted in this form in such a proposal, its share of ownership is reduced from 20% to 10%. We can ask a question which is the basis why the Ministry of Culture, or the Government, proposes this law? in the public of Dubrovnik-Neretva County and the city of Dubrovnik are assumed to be two important reasons. The first reason is that in view of the amount of funds that the company generates from the use of the Dubrovnik Walls and which amounts to 50 million kunas, they simply want to provide the city of Dubrovnik and thus contribute to the recovery of the Dubrovnik City budget, which is truly extremely large compared to other local self-government units. Another reason why the government is going to meet the mayor of Dubrovnik is to continue commercialising Dubrovnik's historical cultural heritage. As a result, the HDZ Club cannot support such a bill but suggests that the government withdraws it or if it does not withdraw it to leave a 60-day period within which the city council will hold a theme session on the Dubrovnik City Walls, so it would be good if the government first obeys the position of the Dubrovnik City Council and only then declares the further fate of this bill. Thank you. And here's what Mr. Mesic will do.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68158	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Bacic said a lot. It's amazing that we've managed to also protect cultural monuments by politicizing them. Something that hasn't worked for anyone in the last 60 years. Both states and authorities and systems have changed, and no one has ever thought of creating an unprecedented policy so far and taking the management of the Dubrovnik Walls to the Association of Friends of Ancients, which, by the way, be told by your work and the Wall preserves. Tell me colleagues and colleagues of one unique heritage expert who supports this proposal, one only in the Republic and you can expand. Show me a single professional reference that claims the new way is better. Take a look at the correspondence of the conservatory society, the art historians' society, see the entire contribution of one daily newspaper where you have a dozen historians of the art of intellectuals who describe why such a law should be left. Do you remember there was a law in the field of culture where you had this reaction special contribution in a newspaper daily? Have you ever had an unison attitude about something like this? I'm particularly talking to my colleagues and colleagues from the SDP. The Croatian branch of ICOMOS also raised its voice. Otherwise ICOMOS is apostrophe in the UNESCO Convention for the Protection of Heritage like that NGO international NGO that assesses whether any cultural good can be on the World Heritage List or not. They give professional judgment, and the UNESCO Assembly then votes it out. And that branch raises your voice against this bill. And from the ruling coalition, all we hear is pain. What's going on with the Dubrovnik City memorial rental? That's what we said when we first read. Mr. Deputy Minister, I ask nicely that you inform us whether the monumental rent in the city of Dubrovnik has been spent in accordance with the law. We've called you several times. What can the Ministry of Culture pressurised by a party discipline directly linked to the HNS mayor and partial party interests at the moment. This is the right moment when the Minister of Culture has a chance to resist and preserve the independence of the ministry. Not rip it out for peace in party forums. And I'm asking you what the Ministry of Culture is proposing. The refurbishment under this law shall include all activities in terms of conservation, maintenance and revitalisation, which include rehabilitation, conservation, restoration, etc., and shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of this Act, the Protection and Conservation Act and watch out for now and regulations in the area of spatial planning and construction in the protected part of Dubrovnik. Construction, what I'm asking you. New apartments, apartments in the position of the Desert for whom and who will stir that space? Is it possible that Article 4 intends to introduce new content resulting from the modern needs of housing and the pursuit of economic, cultural and other activities? What other activities? What other modern activities within the walls of Dubrovnik, and where do I ask you, on Stradun, in front of the Prince's court, in the clauster of the monastery of Clarice? Let me find this expert in the protection of monuments in the Republic of Croatia to explain it to me. Article 5 of the renewal of the monumental unit will be implemented according to the restoration programmes of the monumental unit in accordance with the existing spatial arrangements documents and regulations governing the construction of buildings within the Dubrovnik walls. My colleagues and colleagues have nothing to do with any ideological, political and any other differences here in the Croatian Parliament. This is a 1/1 desire for someone to be above the city, that someone gets as much power as it is contrary to all international professional documents, contrary to UNESCO and the opposite of what they prescribe. I told you already in the replica how much money is lost here at the start. What about the spaces that are already being told around the city of Dubrovnik that they will be given for various purposes? Who wants to end up with Revellin in the culture system? Will our complete service of foreign affairs, together with the Ministry of Culture, at the next UNESCO meeting, have to explain that Dubrovnik is not the Dresden that was deleted from the list of cultural goods, world lists because they did not comply with the regulations of the Convention? Do you know that the contribution of the Dubrovnik Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquity is why and... St. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Vlaha is listed in the list of immaterial heritage, because it explicitly prescribes and says that cultural heritage is always the fruit of the way and life of the human community in that area. And that's only because it's two connected and both deserve to be on the list. This law is against both of them and the other and the third, and that's not the HDZ telling you, it's the entire professional public. Please keep that in mind when you vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68159	Thank you very much, we have a few replicas on both exhibits. At the presentation of the esteemed representative Branko Bačić, a representative of the esteemed Jozo Radoš first appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68160	My colleague Bacic, you said that these laws transfer affairs from court jurisdiction to legislative proceedings. But it's certainly not a desirable situation, but you haven't said a single word about giving public goods to anyone else but a company owned by a unit of local self-government contrary to the Law of Ownership and other real rights. You have forgotten the same way that the availability of public goods can be given to someone or alienated only through the basis of a public tender and at a market price. Those dimensions of the legality of this case are obviously of no interest to you. It's important stuff. And this illegal situation with regard to the walls of the city of Dubrovnik has lasted for ten years and nothing to anyone. And now that the government is trying to resolve this unfair, or unfair situation, you are now finding other arguments that this is about incurring in court jurisdiction. Surely this is not the best situation to change some legal transactions and legal acts by law, but these legal acts are against the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68161	Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68162	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Radoš, primarily a decision defining contractual obligations between the Association of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquities and the City of Dubrovnik, made the representative body of the city of Dubrovnik on the proposal of Mayor Andro Vlahusic in 2009. But then there is no contractual relationship between the city of Dubrovnik and the Association of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities, it occurs long before, it occurs 62 years ago. Meanwhile, on several occasions, the contractual relationship between the city and society has been changed and brought into line with the legislation at the time. But even if you were right and that contract was not concluded in a legally valid way, then the contract clearly states who is responsible for resolving such a dispute that would arise between the city of Dubrovnik and the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities. But is it not clear to you that neither the Mayor of Dubrovnik nor the City Council of Dubrovnik as a representative body has initiated the procedure for amending the contract if they believe that the contract is correct and that it is not legally valid for the competent municipal court in Dubrovnik? Then who is actually giving us here in the Croatian Parliament to break up this contract and assume on ourselves the powers conferred on it by the jurisdiction of the judicial authority and in this is the unconstitution of a law which regulates it instead of a judicial body whose jurisdiction is defined by this mutual contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68163	Thank you very much. A new replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68164	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić, this really surprises me, I'm surprised, because as far as I know, this society was founded in times of communism, communist times, in a period when every organization of citizens was under the control of the party and they then had more understanding of that society, for those values than today when we have the freedom to enjoy. We have freedom today, and we see the obvious misunderstanding of one government, one ministry, one party, and I'm not surprised at the CNS, I'm surprised at the SDP that supports this. What's the interest of the SDP? Because someone recorded some money somewhere, had a finger so far, now they want an entire hand. What did he need? But it's not the only case. Let's remember this wire for Srđ. And there someone had to rebuild it, start a job, here's the concession law, want Andro to manage it and everything for him, on other people's torture, on other people's work, on other people's successes. And indeed this is a unique example of the unprecedented practice so far that, with the support of the SDP, the HNS is now, I suppose, abolishing the historical value and that this coalition continues to be the only thing that is good and that will bring life back to life in Dubrovnik now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68165	Replicate response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68166	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague, Boric, unfortunately the communist way of thinking is often in the minds of many individuals today, so it should not only be exclusively tied for one period of our history. This is an example of how and how it is tried extra-institutionally if I can say so or beyond the agreement that formed one side in one contract to put outside, dissipate, confiscate its assets. It is almost incomprehensible that in Article 36 of the Law such a text was written as if some verdict from there in the early '50s when citizens were deprived and confiscated property. This article of the law is simply identical to what I would say to some sort of judgment on behalf of the people who have taken away property from people. In an identical way, a society which is an example and a model of cultural heritage management not only in Croatia but also in wider spaces is attracted to it for the reason that such a way of making available the funds and not the small means that this society collects, it is now obvious that the mayor of Dubrovnik who would have taken these funds for budgeting on the one hand, and on the other hand, what is said in the Dubrovnik public, enables commercialisation of Dubrovnik's monumental heritage.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68167	A new replica, a respected representative of Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68168	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Bacic said something in his presentation that wasn't true. In fact, he referred to the fact that he wanted to encroach on an additional culture minister who once promised or said that the Ministry of Culture would support in the programmes of the Sibenik association that volunteers on the Dubrovnik Heritage conservation programmes, which has similar tasks, is true, as this association in Dubrovnik does, but it works on a voluntary basis and is volunteering for these programmes and the Ministry of the Programmes. And in this proposal, the law is about something else entirely, it's about the association, a society that deals with de facto commercial activity, that's about to charge tickets and the part where Mr Mesic was talking about missing the 4-5 million kunas that the Ministry of Dubrovnik normally gave and showed in its budget for the preservation of Dubrovnik's heritage. He must also know that we must go in the direction that if we can and commercially use some heritage, in this case it is about walls, the recognizable tourist and cultural brand of Dubrovnik, that if these incomes are growing on this basis, and it is quite obvious that in the last report somewhere there are some 60 million kunas, and they were a year before 10 million kunas, that then some of the resources that we have in the state budget may be directed towards some other programmes in other places, if I, or those walls, can come to funds on a commercial basis and invest these funds in the restoration and heritage and develop some other places where that same heritage can be put into such a function.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68169	Thank you very much. Replication response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68170	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't know what you've denied me with, but here I didn't realize from your replica that you've denied me because you've confirmed that the Minister of Culture of the Youth Association "Jurai Dalmatinac" seems to have provided me with funds in Sibenik that would be invested in the organization of the Barona Fortress in Sibenik. For your information and the Association of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities is an association of citizens, non-profit organizations and members of the association have no compensation and they are volunteers and these are long, long years long volunteers who work on the well-being of Dubrovnik walls and Dubrovnik's antiquities and Dubrovnik cultural heritage. The fact that during the management of the walls, the company has certain costs for the payment of tickets, which is paid by employees who allow the visit of these same Dubrovnik antiques, is not a fee to be paid to members of the company, but exclusively to employees who do the work for the company's account. And the total amount that the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities collects on the basis of visits to Dubrovnik walls is returned to the restoration of these same walls. And I think that we can be proud of how and how this society has these properties, how it organizes and maintains them, and how cultural and construction heritage of the city of Dubrovnik is maintained in the first place. And the company reports on how to spend its resources neatly annually the City Council of Dubrovnik which, to date, has never had any objections to today in such a way and the cost of the funds that society collects on the basis of ticket fees, and 50% of the annual revenues of the company from the payment of tickets are passed directly to the city of Dubrovnik, which has never reported to the City Council for a wonderful miracle about the spending of these funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68171	Thank you very much. We're going to the replicas of the respected representative Jasen Mesic. She is the first respected representative of Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68172	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Mesic, when you were talking about building a monumental unit, it turned out that it would be uncontrollable construction as if I didn't know big houses, skyscrapers, etc. However, I think that there are, we actually know that there are parcels within the monumental unit and that we need to enable but strictly controlled construction. Controlled by a conservative. Surely a consensus of the profession would be needed in such cases, but if it weren't for that, then even the elementary school inside the walls would not have a sports hall, then no part of the music school would be upgraded. And as far as the Deserter's concerned, she's been through an international contest. So I say again controlled construction why not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68173	Reply to the replica, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68174	Did I hear that correctly, dear colleague? So you're not against building inside Dubrovnik walls? ... Highly controlled construction within the Dubrovnik walls. [[You can't hear it.]] Do you know what procedure it takes? Do you know that articles 137, 138 prescribe that? 139, 140. UNESCO Convention. Do you know you can't build anything inside the walls before you get a specific background from UNESCO or you'll fall for protection. ... Everything by law? [[You can't hear it.]] So how then, why don't you name the UNESCO Convention, but you put the construction laws in it. So someone could do it in a hurry. What international competition... when and for what? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear colleagues, you sat in the Ministry of Culture while I worked there and you were a valuable member and contributed to the work of the Council of the same one about Dubrovnik. Is that what I'm curious about? I'm just curious. So that's the thing. You know what the procedure was for that famous plan to build a station on the Pilas which is a buffer zone, not a protected zone of UNESCO. That's what I'm talking about. You're talking to me about regulated construction inside the walls. Are you aware of what you are opening? And in the end, if the construction is controlled, if you implement these laws, then even a skyscraper can do as high as possible. By this you suggest nothing prevents him, absolutely nothing, can the stadium. Please, nice! Please, nice! That's the point of changing this law. That's why you want to take it to the Society of Friends of the Dubrovnik antiquities that you can actually trade inside the walls with that area, run construction, give as I don't know what purpose, and do the same with business spaces on the walls. It's the goal of it and it's an old idea and you know it well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68175	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Goran Maric is a new replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68176	Thank you very much. My colleague Mesic, I listened very carefully to you, and since I am not well informed about this information, I have been asked a few questions. I'm interested in the end of a contract signed between the city and the society? Tomorrow or next week, this is an emergency law. I don't know, I mean when exactly he's running out. What could be the real reason by law to put a contract out of force? Which party's the mayor, and which one's the culture minister? And what I do know is that a contract and a contractual relationship shouldn't be changed and broken up by law. If a legal act, as I have heard here, does not comply with the law, then it is easy to break up, and one who did not comply with the law must bear sanctions. But it's not good that the Ministry of Culture, which could be previously referred to as the Ministry of Conflict of Interest, provides an example of non-culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68177	Thank you, too. Replica response, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68178	A respected colleague in 2019 was due to expire. The first version of the law wanted to be launched already for the previous government but, of course, a sea idea was rejected. Then the first reading of the law was started somewhere before the local elections and yet it was estimated that it might not be possible to go with the second reading of the law before the local elections, so it waited behind the local elections, where otherwise colleagues from the SDP who are now in favour of this idea of the HNS mayor received not 7% or 8% for the mayor of the City Council 13%. Let them continue to support him, it will be seen in the results of the next election. But it won't be better, it'll get worse and worse. Why do you do that? Well, see that you have cases like that all the time. I'll remind you of the changes and additions to the Law of Theatre. A question in Varazdin, the same HNS line. This is not a colleague touched by anyone for 60 years. You have strategic documents from international to these published on the website of the Ministry of Culture where this is rewritten as an example of good practice. It says, what counterpart Bačić did not invent, he downloaded it from the website of the Ministry of Culture. A strategy that was adopted unanimously. And then you get this kind of situation. Well, that's, I really thought we'd discuss everything in this House, the laws in all areas of culture and all areas of social activities in the economy. If someone had asked me at the beginning of this call which law I am sure no one would try to break I would have said the Law on the threatened protection of the whole of Dubrovnik that will no longer be under this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68179	And thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is the club of independent representatives and respected representative Damir Cain. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to discuss this matter. Honorable representative Jozo Radoš on behalf of the HNS club. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68180	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. I honestly don't know what politicization is. So, by dealing with politics, politicians object to politicizing one another, so if politicisation were to be an excessive use of unargumented debates and drawing conclusions without arguments, then I guess that would be some definition. [[Intruder Mesic: Then I will replicate to you and explain to you.]] I don't think I've ever used the expression politicized in my life because I don't dare say to a politician what I say to myself that he's politicizing, and I'm not politicizing, am I? If politicizing is that defending a position is neglecting the law, defending an illegal situation in a field should probably be politicising because it should be the task of politicians to defend the legality of the conduct and legality of some relations. If politicizing is the mention of the interests of other parties, talking about how they will go in the elections then you colleagues Jasen Mesic are politicizing, and I think that under politicization could be subdued and advocating some absurd solution and what has been going on in Dubrovnik for the past many years has obviously come to an end, I hope, is an absurd situation. You have the fact that every 4 years the citizens of Dubrovnik choose their legal and legitimate representatives to manage the city. Those who submit to these citizens a kind of account, whose work these citizens have such insights, can therefore be replaced by citizens, but such an important resource as the cultural good of Dubrovnik, you do not give these elected representatives of citizens to management, but a association that was founded 50 years ago and on whose business, operation and management of this important resource actually have no influence. It's an absurd situation. And you, Mr. Mesic and the others who advocate an existing solution advocate an absurd solution. I see the elements of politicization in that. At the first reading of this law, you have equally generously and without the rest, advocated the same solutions you advocate and now it would be logical that you have proposed a legal solution by which the Sibenik Fortress, Zadar Beds, Osijek Fortress, Diocletian Palace, Varazdin Castles and fortresses and cultural buildings of Virovitica, Karlovac, Vinkovci are handed over to the management of such associations if this is such a superior form of cultural good governance. Why didn't you do it? It would be very logical. Proposing such a law when you are very clear about it, or not proposing that law, is that not politicisation? So if you didn't do this by proposing a law, I suggest that all of your party people in these cities that I've been talking about and all the other cities be instructed to establish associations that will be managed by these public goods. Both on Rab and Krk, and for the last time I suggested it to my colleagues Bačić that he had his influence to enable him to manage the historic buildings of the town of Korčula. Well, I asked him earlier and he said he hadn't done it yet and he didn't even tell me if he was ready to do it. So the situation is absurd that such a resource is managed by an association whose effect you actually have very little influence on. Therefore, you cannot control not only the legality of their business but also the quality of the management of these invaluable goods of the city of Dubrovnik or of public good. You have the Dubrovnik City Reconstruction Institute with a budget of around 13 million kuna and association of Friends of Dubrovnik antiquities with 40 employees and with a budget of 50 million. So this is one state institution in charge of this job, this is an association that has declared itself competent and obtained such powers in some strange times, I suppose, because it's an absolutely illogical situation. And you are now favouring this association and you are saying that this situation remains so and not to give legal and professional bodies and political elected representatives the authority to manage public goods. It's absolutely not a logical situation. The Association of Friends of Dubrovačka antiquity does all the work on the restoration of Dubrovnik walls without a public tender because it is not obliged under Croatian law to comply with public procurement rules. At the same time, it is proposed here that the main responsibilities of the future management of the Dubrovnik Walls have a Institute of Reconstruction which, of course, is responsible as a public authority for respecting or applying the Public Procurement Act. How absurd is the fact that in the Government's proposal, in the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, there is a law whereby associations whose incomes are greater than 230 thousand kuna and this is the limit of entering VAT for farmers and small entrepreneurs, that they will all have to establish companies that will manage their businesses and these companies will have to be public procurement bonds. What makes more sense than that? Here in the Croatian Parliament there were speeches in the last session as associations in the Republic of Croatia spend about 4 billion kuna, I do not know if this is the correct data, so all their resources from local self-government units, from the state, etc. and that money which is not small money for a state such as Croatia is spent without a public tender and that the matter, of course, is worse without clear control of their business. And it's a situation that's absolutely unsustainable. This proposal changes the founders and their shares to the Dubrovnik Institute for Reconstruction. In which shares the city of Dubrovnik will have a dominant half share of 55%, and will then have the right and appointment of the President of the Administrative Council and the representative body of the city of Dubrovnik, so the city council will have the right to appoint the director of Dubrovnik's Institute for Reconstruction, which is on the trail of decentralisation in this isolated case but giving authority to the unit of local self-government itself to manage such an important piece of its tasks and property such as the cultural good city of Dubrovnik. And that's just as speculative for you. You didn't talk about it as a positive fact and very often when we talk about centralization and decentralisation you attack the Government of the Republic of Croatia that you didn't actually implement decentralisation with what I very much agree with but then you should have praised this example of decentralisation on this lonely case of building management of the city of Dubrovnik. The walls of the city of Dubrovnik are not an isolated subject, they cannot live without the city, without the municipal infrastructure, without the total policy being conducted in the city. Therefore, the city creates conditions for business, for the use of these walls and for making money, for public purposes, and that is what an association uses as it wills according to its own considerations. Therefore, I do not want to say that this association is doing bad but the situation in which it operates and the conditions of its business are not natural, are not logical and are not acceptable. On the other hand, there are several such cases in Croatia. That's not one case. We have a case in the Kingdom where I don't know how many years ago I don't know what interest a city hall has in managing a citizens' union, based on a contract that I don't know about infinite duration and the town of Kraljevica cannot manage because it's very important, it's not culturally good, but it's good of particular interest to the citizens of that city and based on some earlier contractual relations the city can't manage this good and it can't affect the creation of, say, sports policy in that city which is absolutely not logical and acceptable situation. And it would be logical to suggest that if the Law on Property and other real rights are already not respected here, it is violated in at least two provisions. It would be logical to try to find legal mechanisms from the level if the Croatian Parliament should also have that situation that the Government not only in Dubrovnik, I suppose not only in the Kingdom to solve the situation and to come to a legal and logical situation. For all these reasons, we are convinced that these solutions will be better for public interest than existing solutions, that there will be a more orderly and better management of the historic age of the city of Dubrovnik, the club of representatives of the HNS will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68181	Thank you, too. Now we're going to the replica set. The first replica of the respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68182	Since I have a very quick individual debate, I won't be able to say anything to Mr. Radosh, but he'll certainly be kind enough to wait for that debate. This has nothing to do with public interest, not to build public content on the Desert, but to build apartments for the rich who will come there for three weeks over the summer, it has nothing to do with public interest. This has nothing to do with decentralisation or one way or another, all the decisions are authorized and all the money remains in the city of Dubrovnik. And it is not true that society has a budget of 50 million because it automatically gives the city of Dubrovnik half right now and the other half has to invest in the restoration of cultural goods. In this case, it won't be like that. That's why I'm asking questions about where the funds are and I'm not saying it by accident. As for associations, wherever I may be in my term as minister, you will from the Pula forts at least three have been assigned...a number of archaeological cave sites to the cave societies in the Karlova County, a dozen underwater archaeological sites were assigned primarily to the clubs, all in a term of one year. And I welcome this decision by the Minister for the Siben Association. As far as commercial use is concerned, all of this is written in that strategy published on the website of the Ministry of Culture, exactly like that. Commercial use can be destructive and non-destructive. What is allowed in these amendments to the law is destructive. If it's up to the public procurement, which I agree with you, let's sign it, change the contracts, initiate a procedure for amending the contract where it will be prescribed as a commitment and we've settled the matter. But then there's no applying the Law on Construction in Free Spaces, then there's no other respected colleague, Radosh, but then we really have to stick to it. I'd like that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68183	And thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68184	I'm going to lose my virginity now, so I'm going to tell you to politicize because I never thought I'd tell anyone to politicize because I didn't consider myself invited to say it. Speaking of building apartments, you are talking about building apartments in the cultural units of the city of Dubrovnik apartments for rich people. I guess some of them were neoliberal, who else could be. Based on what are you saying? I hope with this solution that with such a administrative structural historical whole of the city of Dubrovnik and its walls that all the positive and good documents of this country will be more respected than they have been respected so far. So all possible deformities and abuses in this clean legal situation by my understanding of things will be better than they have been so far. According to what you're talking about building expensive apartments for wealthy visitors, it's without arguments, so I repeat pure politicization.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68185	Dear Representative Josip Boric is a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68186	Thank you very much. In your discussion, you said that for 50 years we lived in absurdity, and then Jozo Radoš and HNS came and the absurd went away. That would be some kind of conclusion. Imagine that saying, for 50 years we lived in an absurdity that worked well, which restored the Dubrovnik Walls that enabled income and now the HNS is coming and we are coming out of absurdity. And then this is explained by the example that this is an example of decentralisation where the state of funds managed by the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik has left the same to the city of Dubrovnik. It's decentralisation, amazing. I just want to say and say that one other authority will certainly change this if you make this, return to what it was if the Constitutional Court doesn't do it before, and another decision, since this isn't constitutional in some solutions, it doesn't bring down that same bill of law to another disgrace to this government. And just one question at the end, tell the citizens of Stone who will now help them rebuild their walls?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68187	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68188	There are too many absurdities in this country for Jozo Radoš or HNS to resolve the absurdities. But if it is not an absurd situation for you in which legally elected bodies that account for citizens and citizens are chosen on the basis of it are managed by public goods, not by an association to which these citizens whose business and activities may be perfectly free of any insight and control if this is not an absurd state for you, then neither on the subject of absurdity in this case, and not on the general view of completely different, we will never be able to understand each other. As far as decentralisation was concerned, 60% of the ownership and founding rights of the Dubrovnik Institute and 60% of the states were 20% of the city of Dubrovnik and 20% of the county and the state had appointed five members of the governing council of presidents and two states had most of the management of the Dubrovnik Institute for Reconstruction, and now the city has the right to appoint three members with the president, which doesn't make up the majority yet, so one is an employee, one is a county and one is a state. Therefore, the county and the city and employees have an absolute majority of board members, with the president, the director appointed the City Council of Dubrovnik. Isn't that decentralisation? I don't know in which way you can challenge the theory that this case is insulated by the transfer of powers to lower units of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68189	A new replica of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68190	Thank you, Mr. President. I could replicate to you by morning, but there will be times during the debate. But when you call the most successful model of preservation of cultural and construction heritage in the Republic of Croatia what is the model on the part of the city of Dubrovnik, then you can be called the enemy of Dubrovnik's antiquities after such a speech. You are saying that why did the Croatian Democratic Community not propose the establishment of such societies throughout Croatia. This society continues the tradition of society to promote the interest which was founded 116, 117 years ago, so it has one hundred-year tradition and results and tradition, the results of this work are best seen at the preservation of Dubrovnik antiquities, the arrangement of the Falcon City in Konavla, the arrangement of the Stone Walls. You are often in Dubrovnik, so you can see for yourself what a model of management of Dubrovnik's construction heritage, which can only be admired by Dubrovnik and the Republic of Croatia unlike other cities and other buildings and other antiques that are not maintained in such a way in Croatia. As far as this model is concerned, you know where a private society, an association of citizens maintains fortification facilities, is not an isolated case, Europe is crawling with such societies. I would just read you a few associations of private or citizens' associations in Europe such as Italy nostra, such as Europe Nostra, such as English Heritage, such as the Institute of Castles etc., etc. All over Europe, there are societies like these that maintain ancient fortification facilities, etc., fortresses, castles, castles or castles or whatever they are called across European countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68191	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68192	Comrade Bačić, you claim that this is the best model of maintaining cultural goods, it may be your position, it is nowhere to be verified and I can claim that it is not the best model but as far as the logic of public good governance is concerned he is absurd and even if he were the best. But if you think it's the best model then I urge you to re-propose that same model of governance in the wider area of your operation and especially in the town of Korčula if it's so good, if it'll lead to more orderly management of the historic old town of Korčula, so there you suggest it. That'd be fine, then. And that you, though hypothetically and indirectly pronounce me the enemy of the Dubrovnik antiquity, is absolutely not right. I could tell you that you old communist governance models today are being implemented in a democratic society, if that's how we're going to be offended.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68193	Honorable representative Zeljko Reiner, vice president of the House, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Representative Radoš you started with the story of legality, etc. and decentralisation. When it comes to legality, these amendments try to directly intervene in individual legal work concluded between third parties and it is absolutely safe and constitutional and legal inadmissible when we talk about laws. When we talk about decentralisation, what kind of decentralisation is it when we actually know that Croatia has ratified the European Charter of Local Self-Government and according to that document to local units should ensure the free exercise of their responsibilities and respect for the principle of local self-government, in this sense the proposal and adoption of this Act, therefore, concerning property issues owned by a local self-government unit and without consulting with a local level, since it is not a council, the City Council of the City of Dubrovnik was involved in this direct violation of the European Charter. Not only was the City Council of Dubrovnik not involved, the whole thing took place so naturally in an interregnum when the council was not even there because it was very favourable, of course it could be so easy done but it was not the county that one of the founders of Dubrovnik's Institute of Reconstruction was completely bypassed in the debate, the percentage was changed and no one asked anything at all. Therefore, neither is decentralisation because, in fact, those bodies that were to be involved were not included and not legally for these reasons that I mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68195	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68196	Thank you, dear colleague Reiner, so as many of you as feel free and arbitrarily interpret the Constitution and say that something is not constitutional. Whether it is constitutional or not, in fact, the last word in my opinion should have the Croatian Parliament but there is also another body that will likely give its opinion on it. I don't think it's the best situation for laws to get caught up in some form of legal relations, as is the case here. But I think it's better to protect legitimate business, or to end an illegal situation. This association is contrary to the Law of Ownership and to other real rights. Under this Act, public goods can only be managed by a company owned by a unit of local self-government. The association is a free civil society and is not owned by a local self-government unit. And the availability or determination of public goods is possible only through the basis of a public tender and with a certain fee at a market price. The second provision of the Property Act and other real rights is not respected either. And I think it's more important to bring about the state of management of the ancient city of Dubrovnik in accordance with the law than to fear that a legal solution should enter into the legally unacceptable legal relations that exist there in Dubrovnik. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68197	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Marijan Škurić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68198	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Dear fellow, here we are now talking about an absurd situation, then I as mayor can really talk about an absurd situation that today we have discussed the Fiscal Responsibility Act and we as mayors are when we sign that declaration of fiscal responsibility then we have a whole series of responsibilities to carry out. After all, if we do something wrong and what we've said in a way that we might misfiring a travel order, we've got to retail, now it's no longer the case to resign, but we're also fined. It's absurd that I'm the mayor with the original tax revenue of 10 million kuna, when we're still installing other revenues here, it's barely 15, 17 million kunas. I am responsible for these funds, and someone for 50 million kuna did not sign a secure decision on fiscal responsibility. Someone for 50 million kunas manages what is essentially the property of citizens who, for example, choose mayors and city councils who define certain things through the elections. I think that in culture and heritage we have to deal with transparently, and especially in the spirit of the law, and that's where you gave me another idea where I'm going to start one initiative and let's protect the walls of the Penitentiary in Leprechaun, they have a really long tradition, and we're going to need to protect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68199	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. A new replica of the respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68200	Thank you very much. Comrade Radosh, I think you know that I haven't perfected a politicization school, and I don't think I've told anyone that it's politicizing, neither will you. In principle, it is not, I think it is not suspicious to think that associations should not manage cultural heritage and cultural goods. That's what I don't think, in principle, it's not suspicious to think at all. In principle, I think it's not good for associations to manage even tennis centres and resorts and homes or any other public good. But you said this was an illegal state, and that relationships are not logical and acceptable. Is there anything unconstitutional about this you should say your court constitutional court. Is there anything illegal about this court? Is there anything logical that any individual can say alone. It doesn't make any sense to me either, I admit it too. But it's allowed. Did the city ask for an end to the contract? It's not. Did he sue society? Not according to my knowledge. If something is illegal, one party should file a plea for termination of the contract, and the illegal situation should be broken down by judicial means and the law should not be passed to break up the contractual relationship until 2019. Well, it could have waited four more years for him to expire and the new model to be adopted. In principle, I'm not talking about this kind of relationship, but if it turns out to be good in this case, then let's wait a little while longer until it expires, and then new relationships and new regulation of public good governance are created.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68201	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68202	My friend Maric wouldn't do it like that. If this was the year 2019 because it is comfortable, because it has the support of one part of the citizens, there is a polarised situation in this respect it would then be required to continue the situation and it would be likely to be a strong pressure on the holders of the political authority whoever it was at that time in Dubrovnik to continue the same situation. And that question would not be resolved in 2019 by entering, say, this legal situation. Unfortunately, that wouldn't be the case. Such political relations and such political conflicts, different views, conflicts of interest, mentality, etc. created in Dubrovnik so it wouldn't actually be possible. And probably no other legal mechanism would be possible because such a situation is complicated and there would be no solution. And waiting for the next six years is actually not a small period. It's about 300 million kunas and more actually, because the funds that are collected for commercial purposes are increasing and bigger every year. If the associations were to operate somewhere that Bacic spoke about, then I guess these associations have much clearer management rules than we do. So you have 50 million kunas and you have management of these funds, well one part of the funds goes into the city of Dubrovnik budget without a public tender. Therefore, transactions are concluded without a public tender in accordance with the law and transactions are concluded without payment of VAT. You, by the way, lose 25% of the state's turnover on that 25 million kuna. That's 5 million kuna. Is that a desirable situation? I believe that such a serious business with such great resources, with such a large number of employees must be strictly prescribed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68203	Thank you very much. We continue the debate, the individual debate in duration, and not. We still have SDP's club and respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68204	Thank you very much, Mr. Deputy Minister, Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here we go as if we'd split into two camps. However, we forgot about, somewhere on, the least mentioned is the Dubrovnik Reconstruction Service, which is why this law is actually passed. Because of the functioning of the law itself. So we're talking about a public institution that performs professional and other activities of organizing and implementing the restoration of Dubrovnik's monumental unit. This law is expected to ensure the work of this facility of Dubrovnik's Institute for Reconstruction, as well as to ensure the continuation of the programme of continuity of the recovery of the damaged structures of the city of Dubrovnik. The Institute is, we must remind this time, that it was once a mega institution that actually launched a systematic reconstruction of Dubrovnik after the 1979 earthquake, where the annual budget was around 13 million kuna. The reconstruction of Dubrovnik so far has been achieved with about 50% of the single programme drawn up. We can say that there is a pioneer enterprise in the country but also in the world. The Dubrovnik Reconstruction Institute has been actively involved in the drafting of this bill from the very beginning. And we, in front of the SDP club and in contact with the Institute, tried to meet the harmonisation of the necessary changes and the necessary and useful for both the monumental and the necessary work of the Institute. Of course, by respecting the profession, we have sought to adopt most of their proposals, i.e. to become an integral part of this law. In front of the SDP club, we also support the amendment that the word threatened is not deleted. We think that the monumental total of course is becoming more and more endangered every day, as well as the 1667 Dubrovnik earthquake, which was the strongest earthquake in history that has occurred on Europe's soil, and besides that, there is always a danger. And therefore, the monumental unit must be compromised. According to the draft law, some amendments have been made to the final proposal so as to amend Article 11 of the Law, which determines the activities of the Institute by the final proposal for law, were in fact deleted from the development of a plan of management of the monumental unit as an activity of the Institute for the reason that the development of the plan is a one-time project that requires major engagement, the creation by an interdisciplinary team of experts and the institution is not competent and teamed to carry out this task. Also, we have changes in founding shares with this law. In accordance with this final draft law, Article 14 has also been amended, given that, in accordance with the funding ratio, the right to elect representatives of the Governing Council should also be set out. In addition to the draft law, Article 14c(1) on how to choose the Director has been amended. In the final proposal for a law in Article 18, a new article was added, paragraph 5 was amended. These changes are the result of technical specificity. This was also a request from the Agency for Reconstruction so we could actually work. So, due to the technical specificity and diversity of treatment in the case of a block of connected buildings whose recovery as a whole cannot be carried out individually by the owner of one building or apartment. The proposed amendment allows for the resolution to be implemented. The text of the final proposal also amended the provisions of Article 32, which is a way of financing institutions where they are actually provided with their annual budgets by the city of Dubrovnik, Dubrovnik-Neretva County and the Republic of Croatia provide funds for the work of institutions in terms of material resources and wages, and for the work for programmes it is proposed to finance the city of Dubrovnik. However, because of our position that the largest funds are financed in heritage if they come from heritage we support in front of the SDP club the amendment to Article 32 when the proposed amendment determines that the city of Dubrovnik is actually providing funds for cultural monument protection programmes of at least 50% of the net income the city receives from the sale of tickets for the tour of the city walls. When it comes to funding, the funding of the programme is transferred to the local community by this bill. This obligation goes exclusively to the city of Dubrovnik, however, we believe that the restoration of an urban unit that is under UNESCO protection, which is severely damaged in the earthquake and is further destroyed and in war aggression should not only be on the burden of the local community but, nevertheless, the Republic of Croatia's material and symbolic parts actually participates in such financing. I know that the answer to this may be that there are programmes and public and actually funding programmes whether they work through the ministry or whether they work from European funds through the ministry, but of course it might activate a better local community to activate it. The most debate today and otherwise in public was, of course, the article 36 of the issue of Dubrovnik walls is certainly not a new issue or a question that has not been discussed before. The topic was a more recent reciprocal growth in the incomes that the walls achieved and which today reach millions of dollars. The Law on the restoration of Dubrovnik's monumental unit is publicly presented, and today as a result of the battle between the city of Dubrovnik and the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities over the control of dozens of millions of kunas of incomes that the walls make annually. The heritage is too precious to be thought of exclusively through money, and what we have seen today in the discussions. The fact is that the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities has managed the walls in the past period of quality, and that is undeniable. And you should really thank all the bronze members of the Society of Friends and Experts and distinguished honorary members and all the people of goodwill who actually gave their work and put great effort into the heritage of the city of Dubrovnik. After almost a century of carelessness by the then authorities in the Dubrovnik fortification system, this is exactly what society has brought today's walls to the state in which it is. In the relations between the city government and society there were contracts and agreements and we certainly saw today that there were both harmful contracts and harmful agreements. There were also war flags and all the bad things that gave a bad picture to the outside and a bad perception which, in fact, did not deserve cultural heritage either the city of Dubrovnik or the city of Dubrovnik. It is also undeniable that the Association, or Civil Society Organisation, is making huge revenues in public good, for which public authorities do not have detailed control and control mechanisms. Perhaps this fact is also a key problem somewhere in this law that seeks to resolve which law in this form does not have a completely adequate solution, but does not provide an answer to the most important question. Where exactly does the wall's incomes go? How functional is the means of spending achieved on public goods, public activities, public resources, and how closely can the allocation of these funds be monitored and monitored, whether in the budget or associations or public institutions or cities? The SDP club also advocated agreement, conversation and agreement in its first reading. He stood for the agreement that we had actually highlighted first time, respecting a good model where monuments from our own income are restoring themselves. However, I was invited as a parliamentary representative to one of these agreements, a debate. It was the preparation of one where the city of Dubrovnik offered certain funds, I think it was about 20 million kuna, the Society of Friends for their further work. I am not familiar with further relations, or further negotiations. However, I must point out that we're in favour, we've advocated, after the first reading we hoped that between the first and second readings there would be an agreement. Perhaps the Deputy Minister will give me an answer to this question of mine. We know that the restoration of the heritage of our basic resource is complex, demanding, extremely expensive. The founders' relations and relations with the founders with the institution, the law says that special contracts will be arranged, perhaps there is a place to set out clear definitions of the dedicated spending of funds that are realised by the economic exploitation of cultural heritage and have to be clearly defined by the roles of both national, regional and local authorities. I am sure we will also all agree that the care of cultural heritage, whether in Dubrovnik or in another part of Croatia, is the duty of all levels of government. I'm also sure you'll agree as incomes stemming from cultural heritage that they actually have to return to cultural heritage again and into targeted projects. Therefore, we, by this law, needed to improve the situation, improve recovery, improve recovery. It's not intended to shut down any civil initiative we've heard here on a few occasions. Of course, it is necessary to monitor the state it is, the government certainly has instruments, and also measures because heritage and heritage management are too valuable to think about exclusively through money and too precious to avoid implementation and laws like this and if necessary and to change it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68205	Thank you, too. We're going to the replicas for your exposure. Honorable representative Branko Bačić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68206	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, you are apart from being a parliamentary representative and I think it is also a councilwoman in the City Council of Dubrovnik, and you would do well to support the proposal of the HDZ Club. Yes, the City Council of Dubrovnik, whose member you are of this, and what is announced at the City Council session, seems to me on Monday, that the status of Dubrovnik's antiquity, Dubrovnik monumental and cultural heritage will be held by the City Council of Dubrovnik's thematic session. Well, you're also in favour of the SDP club that the decision on this bill and its vote is delayed until we hear the voice of the City Council, the representative body of the city who owns these same Dubrovnik antiquities, and I don't see what's the rush to bring it in before the City Council shows up. The second thing, we do this law job, a very, very successful way, an extremely successful way that is a miracle in the Republic of Croatia, how and how the monumental heritage is maintained, is now given to the Dubrovnik Rehabilitation Office which you know well. It is not possible to maintain and preserve the city's construction heritage this quality at this time. The third thing is, you're wrong, you're wrong when you say that these funds don't make society available transparently because society regularly submits a report to the City Council on the spending of funds. And secondly, a colleague of Rados society neatly reconciles VAT because it is in the VAT system and when it charges tickets and when works are carried out for his account to preserve and regulate cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68207	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of the respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68208	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Bačić, well, in particular, I was also pushing for this to be a debate on the city council, and it would absolutely be easier for all of us to make some decisions. However, there was no debate. But I'm not in the Dubrovnik deal, it's your party. Since you didn't ask your party in Dubrovnik why it didn't happen, if they had their own attitude. Did you ask if your party has a say in this law? The other thing is, you said if the Dubrovnik Renewal Office could do all these jobs. The Dubrovnik Reconstruction Office should be expanded and reconstructed if necessary. So if the secretary of the association says they've restructured themselves, more have come to terms, I'm talking about associations, building engineers, designers created a relationship between a small construction company that works closely with conservatives. Society was not adapted to spending so much money, the sudden leap of income was. Have you wondered how society will treat such a leap of money? If you're wondering if a public institution will be able to do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68209	Dear Vice President of the House Željko Reiner replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68210	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, distinguished representatives of Šimac-Bonačić you were talking about the institute, I just want to remind the office was founded in 1979 after the earthquake and the sole purpose was to repair the damage from the earthquake. He too remained in relatively modest frames, since he was in parallel with the company involved in the restoration. And this society has made the reconstruction and the walls, thanks to this society that Dubrovnik is already listed on the list of world cultural and natural heritage at the first conference of the UNESCO World Heritage Committee. This society should be grateful that the Dubrovnik Walls have been well restored, which is the Stone Fortification System which was in a catastrophic state and in 2009 has been detained for its purpose, which the Fortress Falcon was decorated in the spring of last year. So they did it, not the institution. And it is entirely wrong to claim that it is a non-transparent action because you know very well that they have submitted financial reports every year, that the city council has received these reports, that they have organised meetings, publications in the media presented their results, that all data is available on the Internet to detailed statements of income and costs. So anyone who wants to see it can see it, but you and I both know that the purpose of this law is something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68211	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of the respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68212	Thank you very much. Well, I don't think we should talk, I think we're all here and all the citizens who listen and look at the fact that their work on the results of the work is impeccable. However, you mentioned the Dubrovnik Institute for Reconstruction and that it is a public institution dealing with seismology and the consequences of the earthquake, that is correct. But it's an institution that's done only 50% of the plan that's been planned so far. That institution should also be provided with funds, as well as the profession to continue the program of its work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68213	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Jasen Mesic is a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68214	The Institute is the best institution in Southeast Europe in terms of reconstruction and seismic consolidation of buildings. That's what he was up to. So at this point, the Bureau can't run the management plan. Otherwise management plan is the legal obligation of the city. It's prescribed by UNESCO has five, six years not arrived... to arrange it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for what should be done and you know well when there remains extra funds for the Society of Dubrovnik's antiquities to return it to a city that is purposelessly spent. I assure you, fellow Members, and I urge you to check the transparency of the use of antiquity friends' funds and the transparency of spending the monumental rent, so let's see if it was more transparent of society or more transparent of the city. As for the management of the plan and what needs to be done in the city of Dubrovnik, you will see when you open the scheme of this management plan as it should look, you will see that one of the first chapters will be cooperation with the local community and NGOs. That part then leave empty because you will exclude NGOs with this from management. It'll be one of the first parts that you'll... It is not only Dubrovnik, it is waiting for Trogir, it is waiting for Split, it is waiting for all because it is so systematic under the law obligations of the Convention. But as for the transparency of the funds, let's go check it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68215	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica of the respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68216	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague... We are aware that it must be done that it is actually the city of Dubrovnik to do and we have changed it in law and I mentioned it in my debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the monumental rent you mentioned on a few occasions, I'm telling you by heart but I think she's in town about five million kunas and she's going about two million states, I think, and three million goes, stays the city, about like that. As far as spending is concerned, I think it was purposely spent in the renovation. And now I'm going to tell you that when you look at how much money there is in the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik antiquities about 65 million kuna that it's 13 times more than a monumental rent that needs to be spent on renovation. And I will now invite you to come to the Lasers this summer, where the city of Dubrovnik gives its resources, or citizens of the city of Dubrovnik 30 million kuna. I'll be glad to see you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68217	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Zvonko Milas replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Bonačić, I have to say that I'm not really in the mood for this as much as you do, but I'd like to say a few words in principle. To me, I could come to terms with the introduction of order regardless of the consequences that will result. I followed you closely, and I think you said that society really achieved an envious level of protection of Dubrovnik walls and everything that goes along with it and that it would not be good if it just grew up that if I understood correctly that you were in favour of some sort of deal, that it would be resolved by some agreed means. Well, I don't see why it doesn't work out that way, and if I remember, you said the law was passed just for the purpose of the Dubrovnik City Reconstruction Office. If that's the crucial goal, the institute, I thought that the goal of the preserved wall was in a state of condition or even better, which is why we didn't also try to save one institution, but in fact it tried to throw it into bankruptcy, regardless of what might be more important to each other, I'm talking about the Immunological Institute, it's much more important than this institution, but it's happening under the same patronage, so it's just not clear to me whether it's just money or something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68219	Replica response, respected representative Tatjana Šimac- Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68220	I'll repeat what I said on two occasions that the heritage is too precious to look at only through money and that's what you just said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68221	Honorable representative Jozo Radoš replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68222	Fellow Members of Šimac Bonačić you talked about how frequent conflicts of the city of Dubrovnik or legally elected authorities and society were in the past and that sometimes they followed agreements that were not the best and if they were not the best then they were obviously at the expense of public good and good governance of public good. So logically that something like this happens when the natural powers and competences of the selected bodies have been taken over by an association or by circumstances they have come into the hands of an association and these conflicts would have been if no agreed solution had been reached and obviously difficult to agree on over and over and over again. Those who advocate an existing solution advocate a continuing repeat of the conflict between the legally elected authorities of one city of Dubrovnik in this case and an association that is obviously doing a job that should be in the jurisdiction of these elected bodies and will always be at the expense of public good. And that's why it needs to be stopped. As for the Society of Friends of the Dubrovnik Age and their positive contributions, so all that you said must be standing. They can find their place in this new model. According to this decision of the law, one representative of the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquity and a member of the professional Committee for the Reconstruction of Dubrovnik can be members and can find their place in other aspects of care for Dubrovnik levels without necessarily collecting funds and making them available. He who is enthusiastic and loves Dubrovnik and its antiques will find ways to participate in the management or maintenance of those antiquities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68223	Replica response, respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68224	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Rados, I think we share the same opinion that conflicts are very bad and that a group of perceptions has been created because just watch and in the media read about these conflicts and change the flag, certainly it was not pleasant and certainly not good. It would also be bad to be competent people who have really invested their years of effort in a volunteer work would be just as bad to lose. However, I would, you mentioned earlier, speaking of contracts, I think you mentioned the Property Act and other real rights. Now, if we look at this lawyer, I am not and we have to build on it, but since the city walls are public good in the general application of the current management method under this article of the Property Act, and other rights do not comply with that law. According to that law, only a public tender may be made on the basis of a fee found at the market price. And now we're wondering if the general contracts that were made, I'm not a lawyer, but if they're legally justified, or if they're nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68225	Thank you, too. We're moving on to a ten-minute debate. Now it is the honourable representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68226	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must admit, I've never experienced this many phone calls from people who deal with culture and cultural heritage as much as I do now. So I hope that colleagues and colleagues from the Kukuriku coalition will endure at such arguments as they say. It's very dangerous for cultural heritage when people think the world starts with them. It's very dangerous when we say that all of a sudden we've had conflicts and everything has worked out for 60 years and now a mayor shows up, writes the law, takes it to the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Culture, takes it first page, takes it to the government, coalitions agree to let it go and ends up here, and we say nothing right now. As far as politicisation is concerned, if in this debate, each of us called on any expert document, any strategy, any international convention, any provision of the Protection Act or anything then this debate would not be a politicisation, because this is what we are discussing in the Croatian Parliament. If each of us were invited to do so during our debate, then we wouldn't have politicization like this. Everything is beautifully written in the strategy of preserving and economic sustainable use of cultural heritage. It's all good writing and everything's on the Ministry's website. And then there's the law, the bill that's totally the opposite. I've listed to a respected colleague, Rados, all the associations I've supported in my short term to take responsibility for the management of cultural monuments. They can be listed by dozens across all European Union countries, dozens of documents adopted in the light of declarations, resolutions, conventions which, in the words of... What should actually protect Dubrovnik as a whole? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Instead of the Ministry of Culture reducing 500% this year, not 5, not 10, but 500% of the funding of the protected unit. From this they must immediately finance the management plan, immediately launch the possibility of buying out the space that appears on the free market, immediately assign them to traditional crafts because they have the right to the first cup. Therefore, they can resolve this because everything goes to the right of the first cup according to the Protection and Conservation Act and it is no problem at all. And that's what all smart people in protected parts of the world are already doing. They immediately give those spaces without compensation to traditional crafts. Immediately through traditional shops they place traditional products and then on Stradun you do not have a variety of import jeans but you have what attracts the entire traditional economy and traditional economy in the country. You're not opening other economic content, you're doing exactly that. And that's how you run the entire community once more. And in this way you come to the goal that the strategy prescribes that heritage really in a sustainable sense is a resource of economic development. Let's say you don't crash into the budget the Ministry of Culture prepares for the European funds for one million kuna while pumping 6 million kunas into non-profit media. 6:1 is your ratio of the funds used to prepare projects for the restoration of heritage from the European Union funds in relation to what is given to non-profit media without any obligation to publish public interest 6 times. At the same time, you're coming with this law, and I showed you why. It's the space where he wants to build. Well the flower square is a little baby according to what can happen in a protected... Dubrovnik with any kind of construction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 500% are stricter conditions and 500% are disabled because they are treated by international conventions. How loud the HNS was when it came to Flower Square, how they protested and look now. There was talk of a protected whole, of this whole thing, of destroying public interest. And now it is suddenly a public interest that there are no fresh NGOs involved in this, but that the mayor manages it in accordance with the applicable spatial documents and construction laws. How we managed to politicize it and how it didn't happen to us for 60 years. No one can convince me that the money isn't convinced of the budget. No one can convince me if we wanted to achieve further transparency in public procurement that we couldn't handle it by annexing the contract. And no one can convince me that this management is as natural as Mr. Radosh says, I really don't know where he read it. But I really don't teach you too much from the position of opposition now, so it's possible that I don't even know enough about it, look at the memos of all the professional associations, look at the letters of all the relevant professional associations. Find me colleagues and colleagues of one of the only experts to support that law. Let's really not politicize. Let's find me an institution in Croatia and a wider one that thinks this is an improvement, so Mr. Radosh can find someone for him and me not to be overwise politically. Let's get this down to professional level. I'm not suggesting anything else. And then there's the motionless cultural good. What will happen to the other immutable good of the Dubrovnik Republic after this law. What will happen to the move from Prevlaka to Neretva and to the top of Peljesac? Who's going to finance that? I don't know. I know the mayor of Dubrovnik doesn't care that he doesn't care. It doesn't matter to me. It's completely clear to me. And is it possible that it doesn't matter to you? Is it possible that you will actually come one day with a draft building control inside the walls and you will dare say that, this is controlled construction, professionally verified and conducted and announced international competition. Get me one whole of that species in the world where it was made? The one and only. You know, when someone thinks everything's moving with him and there's nothing like the mayor thinks it's gonna end sooner or later. That person understands it sooner or later either in the election, or in court. You know the only problem with social heritage? Which is incorrigible, which is the damage that occurs again, you can never bring her into her original state. The beginner of the preservation of heritage. If you're not absolutely sure about the reconstruction process, whether in the rehabilitation process, whether in the conservation process, whether in an attempt to intervene doesn't work, doesn't work. That's why they're not preserved and presented on the Split coast, because it couldn't be clarified until the end, and because it was thought that the country and the future would save them for new generations because we knew then that the world wasn't starting with us, but one day, colleagues and colleagues would be smarter. If this law passes, the possibility is that those who come behind us will not have that possibility, and that is the greatest danger of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68227	It all ends. Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas, the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68228	Thank you, Mr. President. Kolega Mesic, this law leaves the Republic of Croatia out of financing the restoration of the cultural and monumental heritage of the city of Dubrovnik. The financing of this same restoration of the entire monumental heritage of the Republic of Croatia leaves the city of Dubrovnik, and the city of Dubrovnik is a unit of local self-government that does not cover the entire area of the former Dubrovnik Republic, i.e. the area given by this same law in the jurisdiction of the Institute for Reconstruction of Dubrovnik and is the duty of the Institute to restore that same monumental heritage. I therefore do not understand how the city of Dubrovnik will finance the restoration of the monumental heritage from Konaval, Zupa, Dubrovnik coast and Peljesac, i.e. Stone and the entire space for which the obligation of the Dubrovnik Institute for Reconstruction is to finance the mentioned, reconstruction and endangered monumental heritage. Therefore, on the one hand, the Republic of Croatia collects from the same assets significant funds from VAT, somewhere at about 15 million kuna per year. On the other hand, this law comes out of the obligation to finance, i.e. co-finance such reconstruction. So this law not only sends a message to the people of Dubrovnik that this cultural and monumental heritage will not be maintained in the same way but we clearly send a message that other cultural monuments in the area of the former Dubrovnik Republic will not be maintained, so the foundation of this law will no longer be the source of income.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68229	Replica response, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68230	Unfortunately, you're right. And it often shifts us that we are not constructive and that we are not making suggestions as to how some things should be in terms of cultural management and sustainable development, and here I have just given a proposal and a way that only in the future can finance it, how in the same way to preserve cultural identity, a cultural monument as a physical phenomenon in space and how to present and attract other activities to achieve additional earnings without building any space and not intervene construction in this area. This to get the state out of funding is very sad especially because it leaves it in a situation that leaves. Well, Mrs Bonacic herself says exactly that 50% of the original plan of the Institute regarding seismic recovery has not been realised. And when you say 50% here. That means it could be 30%, that it could be 20, that it could be 5%, that it could be 3% that the city would eventually depend on the possibility of a city. That's right, it depends on what will be the mayor's will, how he'll trap the peas that day, what the constellation of stars will be or how much it will be in his interest. Among other things, it's a problem. I don't have any particular interest in why I'm so keenly defending this except for a deep professional belief. I'm absolutely sure what I'm saying. After all, I acted like that when I worked in the service of protection. And I can tell you dozens and dozens of examples of how it should be done. What's going to happen to the findings of the Dubrovnik Republic on the sunken gallons, according to this more... We'll take them to the container. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68231	Thank you very much. Dear representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68232	Thank you very much. You told your colleague that you had a lot of phone calls today. Here I was, just now, from the Dubrovnik Renewal Office. So they told me when it came to that construction law that you said was in line with the Construction Act. We're talking about rebuilding, we're not talking about new construction, we're talking about rebuilding, and every reconstruction project needs a building permit. Are you as a minister what you've done on this plan to be different than aligning with the Construction Act? The second thing I understand is that you were a culture minister and you said yourself that you were defending your profession, but in that heat of defense, I think your imagination is working. You're creating a mayor as some sort of icon, an omnipotent icon. However, I must tell you, I'm not defending him, I'm not in a Dubrovnik deal but your party is. Did you ask your client about that? Thank you very much. And one more thing, during the time your party led the city there was intervention in the space inside the walls. Do you know about that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68233	Replica response, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68234	There were minor interventions, most of which ended up in court. There were attempts to build blocks, etc., ended up in court. As far as you're concerned, if that's what you mean about the Radeljak case and this, is that what you mean? And others ended up in court a few of them with my signature. So I sent a series of different mayors to court for such things and private persons and signed it and reported where it was due to be reported. As far as the building permit is concerned, therefore, as regards the restoration of cultural goods, if interventions do not go beyond a certain scope, no construction permit is required. Allow me, I'll tell you. The building permit is required only in structural changes to the facility. However, when you refer to the spatial applicable spatial regulations and construction laws and not only indicate in terms of restoration and intervention on cultural goods but also in space, it is clear that this law applies to what the colleague of the office has said. If these laws do not come from the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods and what is above that law, and this is the International Convention, Mr. President, he well knows that the International Ratified Convention is outside of domestic legislation, if it does not say so, then it remains on this and creates dubiosis. Write it like that, and then I'll accept your argument. If that were the way it was, I'd take it. After all, there will probably be one such amendment tomorrow, so we can vote for it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68235	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Jozo Radoš, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68236	You're telling me that whoever doesn't politicizes, I'm still calling for strategies, plans and laws. So all the time, I have been referring to my colleague Mesic for the Law of Ownership and other real rights, to his Article 35 very clearly and repeated which says that a certain public good in general can be given to the management of a establishment that is the founder or owner of a unit of local self-government, which in this case is not the case, Article 35 of that Law. And Article 39 of that Law states that the availability of property owned by a unit of local self-government can only be made based on a public tender and with a fee established at market price. I keep telling you that. And if those experts whose support you're calling on don't know these laws, then you as a political employee should know that and tell them that the situation that's going on there is illegal and that it needs to be changed. But of course, you're obviously not telling them, but you're saying what's right with them, not warning them that it's an anti-zoconium condition, so I guess that's why you get that number of your text messages that you're already getting support for. And it would be good for you to tell people that the situation is illegal and needs to be changed. You're talking about devastation, this is about management. What kind of devastation are you talking about? What are the parallels you pull with Flower Square and again, in a completely wrong context, you mention HNS. After all, the mayor of Dubrovnik had this as part of his programme, a pre-election programme for local elections, and he won the elections. Doesn't that say anything about citizens who supported the mayor including this part of his program?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68237	Thank you. Replica response, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68238	Many HNS anti-protest mayors received elections and had certain projects to protest for days with groups of citizens against these projects, yet the mayors won elections and history will assess whether they were right. Here's what I'm saying. I'm gonna let HNS be right some time. So it wouldn't turn out that if I had something special against HNS, I'm just very surprised that in the city and in the city that's three times less protected, HNS thinks it's a culture and then in the city treated by international HNS conventions, it doesn't think it's cultural. Where we're taking the adventure. Only the mayor has changed, only that sign has changed, and suddenly there's no problem. Why am I calling? Because I'm telling you, you can't find any experts who say this law is good. If you think you need to upgrade it and in this sense, like you say, do it, do it. Don't trade with something you didn't even create, which was inherited and which should be passed on. Don't do that. Do not allow the Law to intervene in empty spaces as a whole. Here, let me make this simple. Why do you need this in the law if you're here to preserve your heritage, what do you want with it? Where to give you, in accordance with the law, please, and at the same time you will appoint the administration of that office that will then decide whether it is good or not. That's a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68239	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the House Željko Reiner, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, dear Representative Mesic, it's clear to all of us what this is all about, and it's clear to me and to the MPs who think differently it's clear, only of course we pretend it's not clear, we pretend that we don't know that it didn't bother anyone for 62 years, since 1952, when society worked, however, when society performed its function as a protection of the monumental unit and when it freed the city that it didn't have to spend money it was all right. However, when society's incomes became significant, a growing number of tourists then, of course, the greed of the local authorities grew at one more source of income, and that is one reason, and we all know that this is one reason. Another important reason is the possibility to intervene again in empty spaces in general and to build something, good or bad we do not get into it, and the third reason again we all know that the content that is being built there will of course not be and will be opened there will be no traditional twists and all that you have nicely idealistic said but there will be birds and catering content and we know that this will happen. We all know and we're aware of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68241	Replica response, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68242	Yes, unfortunately so is colleague Reiner, unfortunately. Here are no colleagues and colleagues have had time to read the strategy written on the website of the Ministry of Culture di beautifully writes everything, and the Ministry of Culture and I thank that because it published it on the website which is the contribution that there is and someone who did not really deal with it in life, look that actually depends on where they should go. The fact is that everything here is actually done for money, because it's to cover the budget, because it's possible to manage space in a wide variety of ways. The fact is that perhaps many or some in the city of Dubrovnik are interested in these areas, we will see who will get them all in what way, it will be interesting to observe and who will be all interested in making that income. This, of course, has nothing to do with any public interest, but with a group of individuals who will also be able to achieve their additional private interest there. And that's a huge problem waiting for us. Sooner or later, we're really going to see projects like this where someone allegedly is going to form a commission to say that this is the project that we really need inside the walls and that's what we're going to do in some way. But you know what, pal? I am very glad that not a single remark has been accepted by any professional association. Not one of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68243	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68244	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow Mesic, your debate has prompted me to ask a few questions that I would like you to answer. I mean, they're very nice of your ideas that you've presented, I can really say that some of them are in place. But then I wonder why you didn't spend it while you were a minister. The other thing is that when we talk about real estate on Stradun, I don't know if you know how much the real estate on Stradun is worth or even some by the rule of the first buy. I don't think any traditional craftsman can afford a colleague and let alone, as you said, to produce... And from that, he may have paid off some loan that we can measure not in millions of kunas but perhaps in millions of euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You mentioned contract annexes. I'm threatened when it comes from HDZ mouths because I know how you and contract annexes laundered money, how the money was added here, etc. So when I hear it from HDZ's mouth, it's something terrible. Another thing I'd like to ask you, and whose walls are Dubrovnik's property? Is it the property of an association, is it someone being kidnapped or is it the property of the city of Dubrovnik, the citizens of Dubrovnik and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? Whether the money produced by certain activities means exploiting these walls is whether it's public money or someone's private money. So if we're going to talk like that and then why don't we just let one CUD in Osijek, let's say it exploits the Fortress in Osijek, the Fortress also has the rest of the walls and let them exploit them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68245	Thank you. Replica response, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68246	My colleague, you once again label me by generalizing and looking at me as you say someone was laundering money, I'll wait for your term in the House to pass, and I'll sue you. Don't do that. I am not one colleague or colleague of the HNS or of the SDP in this way called. Don't label it generally, those times in Europe have passed in '45. I appreciate you both as an agent and as a colleague and we're good colleagues, I'm asking you very nicely to take those steps. Please. As for my work as Minister, as far as my work in the service of protection at the age of 30, I was elected to the UNESCO World Committee with the highest number of votes to protect underwater cultural heritage. No party's helping you out there. I don't know what part of it you wanted to ask me exactly what I did or didn't do, after all, the protection of heritage is a permanent process and it's not that simple. And I realize that it's not easy for any mayor to manage a city that is in itself a monument. I know a traditional craftsman wouldn't hold the rent, so I'm saying, that's why I suggested he buy the city and give a free traditional trade provided he only has traditional... It is actually a way where you will be able to get below the EU radar very quickly, if I can express myself, in fact to encourage traditional crafts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Before that, you must register them, enter the Register of protected cultural heritage because it will be the only way to stimulate them with the means to survive, and to protect cultural identity, that identity produced by this Stradun and those walls. You understand? You will have to protect it otherwise you will get the city of Kulisa which is actually the main problem of the protection of the heritage of such wholes, not just Dubrovnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68247	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. We're going further into the debate of individual representatives. It's the honorary representative Mirela Holly. She's gone. She's losing her right to discuss this. Dear Representative Branko Bačić. Here you go. And in me is Branko Bačić, now There's no other choice. You have no choice. [[/Intruder Mesic: And on screen is Reiner. As you say, we'll listen to you.]] Mr. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68248	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Deputy, Your Honor, Here, after the first reading of the law that was, it seems to me to me in early September, at the 9th month and here, this afternoon's debate, I have not heard from the Ministry of Culture, which the reasons have led the Government and the Ministry of Culture to propose this law to the Croatian Parliament? I would like to hear what are the reasons, what is this assessment of the state of such a situation which requires the Croatian Parliament to adopt such a law? So I ask the question of the Ministry of Culture is whether the reason for passing this law is because an inadequate, unsatisfactory, unsatisfactory heritage of the city of Dubrovnik and the area around the city of Dubrovnik, the area of the former Republic of Dubrovnik is unsatisfactory. Is that a reason? If that is the reason, because the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not satisfied with the condition of Dubrovnik walls, Dubrovnik monumental heritage, then I would like such a law, then such a law should all be supported. But that's not true because we would be denied the condition of the Dubrovnik Walls, the way the Falcon City was arranged in the Konavlas, the way that access to the arrangement of stone walls and all those other projects that the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities realized over the past period. So that's not the reason. Then what other reason would it be? Is the other reason why society has, contrary to the law, the means that it collects on this same exploitation, the use of the same monumental and cultural heritage of the city of Dubrovnik? Is that a reason? If that is the reason, then make it clear that this company does not operate under the law, that it does not respect the Law on Associations in the Republic of Croatia, that it should be reported, that it is necessary to investigate the business of that society because it is non-transparent, because it does not operate by law. Then no one in this House will be against such a legal solution that would go for the money collected from public property, or property of the city of Dubrovnik, no one would be against it if such a law did not change. But the City Council of Dubrovnik, which is reported regularly every year by the Association of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquities on the way of spending and on the spending of funds and has never had any objections and has never expressed any doubt about how to use these funds, is the only one that could show such a suspicion if, after submitting the report, it was found that these funds are not legally available. So there's no reason either the Ministry of Culture or the Government have subsidized this House for what this is all about. Well, then if there are speculations, then if there are doubts as to what the real reasons are, then they're justified because of the real reasons we haven't heard here. So when we talk about these money that the Society of the Friends of Dubrovnik Ancients is taking to their disposal, the assets are obviously stuck to the mayor of Dubrovnik, and I would like to use those funds as the funds and revenues of the city budget of Dubrovnik. Another thing that is also important here, this is about the property of the city of Dubrovnik, an property which according to the law as Mr. Rados mentioned several times according to the Law on Property and other real rights is available to the City Council of Dubrovnik. And it had that property. Therefore, the City Council of Dubrovnik has the property at its disposal and has, on the proposal of the current Mayor of Dubrovnik, changed the contract that the company accepted and changed in 2009. and the contract found that by the end of 2019, the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities will have and manage Dubrovnik's antiquities. If the mayor or city council is not satisfied or has different thoughts or there are objections to the management of the property then it is up to the Dubrovnik Municipal Court to try to dissipate the contract. But since it didn't happen, I am not making it clear to me why then the Ministry of Culture and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is putting itself in a position to rape a law that will in any case pass the assessment of constitutionality and will show that it is absolutely out of line with the Constitution and that is what we all understand. Another very important thing is the fact that the Republic of Croatia will no longer contribute to the maintenance of Dubrovnik's monumental heritage, and of this same heritage from the payment of tickets paid by visitors of Dubrovnik City Walls only from the basis of VAT on these tickets is killed by 10 million kunas, and in addition, the society still has to pay about 3 to 5 thousand kunas for the state of VAT, depending on how much in each year society is able to realize works on the maintenance and arrangement of Dubrovnik's cultural heritage. And another very important data, as I said, will surely pass the assessment of constitutionality, the president of the company has already based on the Law on the right to access information asked the Government of the Republic of Croatia to deliver to him the indications of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Administration and the Office for the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal for a law which was sent to the government's procedure by the Ministry of Culture. For a wonderful miracle, the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not deliver to the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik antiquities advocating certain ministries because, as they said, it would violate the procedure and procedure in which the Government adopts an act. So much for the transparency of the work of this government when one society that is being removed from the position of maintaining Dubrovnik's cultural antiquities is unable to deliver an indication of the individual ministry in the procedure in which this law was adopted. Then it can also be speculated that maybe the Department of Administration that maybe the Department of Justice had a different view of these laws. On the other hand, our Assembly Committee on Legislatives said in his first reading that the disputed provisions of Article 36 of this Law, which the Croatian Assembly assumes the powers of judicial authorities in the Republic of Croatia and that until the second reading, the Government should review them. But since nothing has changed, I do not understand why the Law Committee of the Croatian Parliament has now changed the attitude that had on the almost identical text of Article 36 of the Law. It would have been good, therefore, if we had remained on the trail of first - reading evidence in that part. We have proposed at the HDZ Club that the government stop by adopting this law, to leave the representative body of the unit of local self-government which is the registered land-book owner of the property that we decide to hear about what the legally elected representatives of the citizens of the city of Dubrovnik have to say, what they think about the fate of the property that is in their possession and which is past their position, so beyond the decision of the City Council of Dubrovnik, the Parliament is governed by a contract that is absolutely in force and whose breakdown is imposed by the Assembly as a legislator, which, according to the three-division of the authorities in the Republic of Dubrovnik, is not the authority to do so. So it would be good to wait... Madam Vice President, let's wait for the position of the city council and Councilman of the City of Dubrovnik. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68249	Vice President Zeljko Reiner's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68250	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bačić, you asked good questions especially when you started your presentation, and these are the questions raised when reading this law. Based on what arguments is he brought in at all? Is it because society worked so badly? Everyone says it's not, including those who advocate that law. Is it a financial malfunction, non-transparent? It's not, either. Every year, he brought his reports to the city authorities, each time it was accepted. Never, as far as I know, have there been any objections either to financial business or to the functioning of society. If we are, of course, telling very handsome stories about how public competitions should be, and so on, then we need to see again and what the work of society was, it was, in truth, based on systematic research and conservation and archival. And in fact, society has brought together all sorts of Croatian scientific elites from the field of art history, history, etc., called for cooperation of experts from Europe and the world, all the interventions were based on scientific, objective knowledge, verifiable programs, were realized by the inclusion of top specialized performers and no one had ever noticed that something was wrong in this. And now that we say all that together and then what's the reason that society is actually taking away all their powers and everything that's been created for 62 years is going down. The interest is pretty clear, but we can only pretend it's not clear to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68251	The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68252	You're right, Mr. Vice President. The society has indeed brought together the Croatian elite of historians and conservatives to assist in the work of society. One of them is certainly Mr. Joško Belamaric, so I will read to you his quote, his position on this law and this problem, and he says: "There is probably no city in Croatia where there is no society established to care for the ancient monumental heritage. But neither in Zagreb nor in Istria, Dalmatia nor Slavonia has reached a close-up pace of activity that has been shown for years by the Association of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquity. I find the only comparison far in similar English societies in which civil responsibility, true understanding of historical values and cultural heritage, professional competence and sober management of the means at their disposal are ideally combined. The results of the society are impressive and not only in Dubrovnik but throughout its historic space from Sokol and Molunta in Konavle to Stone, which without constant concern and concrete conservatory procedures that the society carried out only picturesque ruins, however monumental. I honestly believe that the organisation of a model that developed Dubrovnik society should be well studied on many of the so-called so-called. higher instances and try to apply it in other environments.". I think that's enough about this law from the highest instance of Croatian historians and conservatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68253	Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68254	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, you keep asking your colleague Bacic what's the reason for this bill at all. Here you are the builder, so I will mention to you in fact that the law that was in force for the Dubrovnik Reconstruction Institute was even from the last century. And that very often the staff of the Bureau said that they simply couldn't actually find the blocks in action because they couldn't work under that old law that was. And that's actually why this law was necessary to the Bureau. When you look at only Article 18, Article 18, which has been amended and essentially allows them to work on their seismic recovery programme. Here, that means the above changes are as a result of technical specificities and differentiation in the case of a block of connected buildings. And you know that there's a seismic recovery right on the blocks. And that's why I'm saying this law is needed by the Institute for Reconstruction so that you can do your job, your most important program, and that's exactly that seismic recovery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68255	The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68256	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues Tatjana you and I know very well that the part of this Law that goes towards improving and facilitating the work of the Institute has not been questioned. But that's not the main message of this law. It's just one... which is likely to improve in the conduct of the Institute, in its regular activities and up to this final proposal of the law, will enable it to work easier, to maintain that endangered monumental heritage of Dubrovnik. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's not, it's not the main purpose of passing this law. This Act is exclusively based on Article 36. And that's the only purpose of passing this law, which is that the funds that society collects from the use and management of Dubrovnik walls are taken by society and given in full instead of 50% of what the city of Dubrovnik has been so far. Everything else you say and as hard as you try to defend this law does not stand. I agree that the Ministry of Culture should have helped if there were any problems in the protocol and procedures for the recovery of certain damaged buildings in the 1979 earthquake for which the Institute was authorized to renew. And it's just one... I'm saying, this is the only real message this law sends and that's decommissioning, shutting down so to say and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The property of the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68257	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68258	You say a colleague, and you mention that in the first reading, the Committee had certain objections, which is true, but the core remained the same and even if those two provisions did not also have the effect of the law to be passed would be the same. However, on these two provisions, only the state's attorney's office has given its opinion that there are no objections to such a proposal from the Law. But what matters is what you say, today it's in the company of the elite, and that's what your colleagues said, ergo, which means in the city, they're cracked, and they're obviously not capable of managing what they're legally required of. Motivations are different and I don't know if you've ever stood up for any society other than those of some football players who have a large amount of money. So, this law that he defends himself by? Just the laws. In fact, it is indisputable that the city of Dubrovnik owns the walls. It is indisputable and that these walls are no ordinary thing, the thing is, to some extent, extra commercial, which means that only certain availability is possible. But it's not even how the mayor wants it, not even how the City Council wants it, but how it's done by the Property Act and other real rights. You must know that even if property is acquired not only by contract, inheritance, or other legal affairs, it is even by law. Therefore, even if he wasn't the owner, he would have the right by law to gain some other real right if it were the will of the legislator. And then what's the dispute? The law on concessions, the law and a whole series of others, but let's just focus on the Law on ownership and other real rights that tell exactly how available this kind of thing can be. And that's already said. And then what's the big deal?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68259	Thank you very much. Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68260	Thank you. My colleagues Antičević-Marinović when I first realized that you had an objection to the same article in the first reading, and your answer in the second reading was deafened, to the same text of Article 36 of this Law. That's one thing. The other thing is, you know it very well, you just want to defend the law, so you keep it quiet. So no one here has forced society into the city, and the city owns it. No one. So, it is not a society imposed on the mayor and the City Council that you have to give it to them, but rather, the City Council chosen by the people of the city as you speak and from the citizens of Dubrovnik made a decision on the proposal of the current mayor who today disagreed with his opinion four years ago, today it was the City Council that set out the proposal for a contract between the City Council of Dubrovnik and the Association of Friends of Dubrovnik's Ancients and authorised the mayor to sign the contract. And he, in full consciousness, signed the contract, and now suddenly he doesn't like what he signed four years ago. And now that he can't, in the normal procedure that's foreseen by the Dubrovnik Municipal Court, change his wish and his subsequent mind here, he's pushing through the government of the Republic of Croatia, raping this Parliament to bring something that you, as a lawyer, know very well that it won't go to the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68261	Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68262	Dear Vice President. Comrade Bacic, you said here clearly that money is obviously a reason. From the whole discussion from everything that's been discussed, it's obvious that there's an important division and taking that cake, that money that's being bought there. But unfortunately, this could be an introduction to a very bad practice, in a practice where it's not how politics and politicization are discussed here, but a purely blow to a civil society. We swear on one side that we want the greatest reach of civilization are civil society and the work of a good society, one good association that, according to the evaluations of all the measuring experts, all the people of the profession and their positive and highly positive assessment and, despite all this, strives to destroy that society or take over management. And it's back together or it can only associate that the goal is control, absolute control, appointment of similar personnel and management over them and then impact on the profession and on everything that it can, which has brought the work of that association as many as fifty years as it's been said here. It's dangerous because it can be passed on to other societies. Any civil society that possibly does something so good that someone likes to do it can then strive and try to pass the law and then it will end it and give it back to others because these are not dense. Usually, civil society is governed by people who are not similarly placed, but chosen among themselves by the best. That is why I appeal and support here that the City Council is decided and that the City Council is respected, not forced to regulate the laws on the ground, and that is the contribution to decentralisation of the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68263	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68264	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Sanader, you've said everything. So society is a non-profit NGO that seems to me to be over 1,000 citizens of the city of Dubrovnik. I don't even know who the small or the big council is. By chance, I know the president of society for coming to the meeting of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, otherwise I probably wouldn't have known who the president was. So here I am merely playing on the basis of the principle, which is that, and this says that the city's antiquities, the city's antiquities in Dubrovnik, the walls and everything that society manages today is maintained in the best possible way. And that in this universal devastation of cultural heritage in Croatia Dubrovnik is a bright example of how this heritage is maintained. And I don't see what that's all about now, I repeat, which is why it leads the government to go through with amendments to this law. It is simply incomprehensible to me and I cannot accept that in this way access to this project which has so far proved to be the best model in Croatia at all when it comes to preserving cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68265	We're continuing the debate. Vice President Zeljko Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68266	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, first of all, I would like to say that it is not known in theory or in the practice of civilised legal systems that an individual specific legal relationship can be abolished, or a contract concluded between third parties that is in accordance with legal legislation in each respect. So it's not illegal, it's been worth years. And it's actually legally unacceptable to break such an individual contract, because it represents a harsh violation of the basic legal order postulates of each regulated state. And we hope that we have the principle of the government's trinity, and then when one authority assumes judicial authority and the constitutional principle of legality and legal certainty, breaking up individual legal work, that's certainly not good. Because there's a way to do it. He was also mentioned in the discussion. There is a court of law that can challenge a possible contract that has been concluded and terminated. In this particular case, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Ministry of Culture, is not a contractual party to the contract, and yet this law wants to terminate the contract. Contracting parties are the city of Dubrovnik and the Society of Friends of the Dubrovnik Antiquity. Therefore, with what right does the executive authority take over matters of judicial jurisdiction, and with what right do we then take part in this work? The Dubrovnik walls are listed in land books as the property of the city of Dubrovnik. Therefore, neither the Government nor the Ministry of Culture are authorized to dispose of them but, of course, according to the Law on Local (area) Self-Government, this can only be done by the City Council of Dubrovnik. The City Council of Dubrovnik, which the owner has never participated in any public debate over the adoption of this law, has never made a decision to transfer ownership powers over city walls to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to the Ministry or to anyone else. And now he wants to pass this law quickly before the announced meeting of the owners, so the City Council of Dubrovnik, and to open another dispute that will end then at the Constitutional Court and another problematic issue that I actually think no one in this country should and will not benefit anyone. What do the provisions of this law determine? They rule out, let's call things by name, that is, confiscate the entire documentation that is owned by a society that was created for 62 years during its work and operation. And now the question is, what does all the documentation mean? Are these projects, are they maybe payroll employees? And then, in today's discussion, I heard from someone who advocated that law that it wasn't intended to choke the civil initiative. So how is it not intended to choke the civil initiative when the entire documentation of a society is confiscated? Well, that means destroying that society. It can't exist without its documentation. And let's call things by our own name, if you want to destroy a society that worked well, and we all agreed to it, 62 years old, so let's call it that name. Let's not hide. This law confers, or confiscate, all of the foundations of a valid contract legally acquired funds. So we're going to kidnap society and money that hasn't been obtained illegally, which no one has disputed the way they've been acquired, and yet they're going to be kidnapped. Retroactively, I stress retroactively the legal effects of a valid contract with the city of Dubrovnik are lifted. A contract that needs to be valid for years and that has not been disputed for three years, and now that society has started to have significantly higher incomes, it is suddenly revealed that it is likely to be controversial in order to get the money of course. They shall be deleted legally by means of a contract and by means of a law entered into by land-booking rights. All of this is done without any right to judicial protection. So, how come society and the right to appeal, the right to a fair trial? What about the principle of banning retroactiveness under which the law and other regulations of the state authorities must not have a reverse effect? It doesn't matter all of a sudden, we're gonna throw it all out the window. How, for example, if this is achieved, any entity in our country will be able to feel safe and legally protected tomorrow when it knows that if it has concluded under the applicable laws valid legal work tomorrow, that same legal work may simply be without the right to legal proceedings in which rights and obligations would be decided, without the right to appeal, without a court to confiscate legally acquired assets. I draw attention to all of us to be aware of our responsibilities, to be aware of the responsibility to destroy something that we didn't create, which was created by generations before, which was founded in 1952, something that no one today had an ugly word, one word of objection, and yet we will destroy it lightly. And that's why I actually want to simply appeal to all of us. It'll obviously be at the polls tomorrow. Let us consider whether for any reason not at all entering into this calm soul and calm conscience to raise our hands to destroy something that has been created for so many decades that has been successful, which seemed only good, and now if it so decides, most of them will be easily swept away as a sponge and simply done for nothing. I think that over all those who would raise their hands for such a law is a huge responsibility not before us, not in front of today's Dubrovnik and today's Croatian public, but also in front of future generations and that enormous responsibility is certainly something we must be aware of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68267	Replica Jasen Mesic, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68268	Dear academics, you said nicely as usual by analysing this bill but I don't know maybe you didn't get into an eye that one of the main changes to these laws at the very beginning to erase the word of the endangered monumental block of Dubrovnik. So in all possible situations, the words of the endangered are deleted. She said nicely that there was almost 50% left to do only to the institute of the original plan, which was his duty before these new obligations, which are foreseen by law, and that is correct. You had an analysis that which group the seismic group belonged to, you had in the UNESCO analysis... It is a special list where the danger to cultural well-being is estimated because of tourism activities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Dubrovnik, it's not a permanent case. The problem is the so-called peak days, so the days because the visit tears in two months when the monument is overloaded. There are, Dubrovnik has also been on the list of endangered world heritage for more than ten years because of various things, including war activities. And now all of a sudden, the Ministry of Culture in charge of the protection of heritage is proposing by force that we delete the words at risk. Why does that seem? Why, even in our first reading, this did not change almost inexplicable, so perhaps you can say more about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68269	Replication response, Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68270	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Reverend Mesic, of course I wasn't talking about all aspects of this law because it seemed to me that there was actually so much unnecessary that more attention needed to be paid to what was more important. However, it is quite certain that removing the concept of endangered monumental heritage is something that is very important not only for this reason that you mentioned that Dubrovnik, which we know well in the thorny area, is how many earthquakes there are from that devastating known earthquake to a series of subsequent earthquakes, etc. But it's not just Dubrovnik. We also mentioned the Stone Walls on several occasions in the discussion, so we remember very well the recent terrible earthquake in the Stone that destroyed almost important monumental heritage, which no longer will live to be restored by this law because there will be no more societies that have been rebuilding and stone walls, but there is no need to forget the fact that, in fact, as far as I believe you know, everything from behind the prince's court is actually built on wooden pillars that are submerged into sandy soil, marshland that are probably well-infected, in fact no one knows exactly their exact condition, but without earthquakes, of course, but without earthquakes, there are actually serious damage to that part, and of course it is necessary to look at the matter from the point of endangered monumental heritage, but it is only one detail that is left out of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68271	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68272	So I'll repeat to you my colleague, you're saying that this lawlessness is the only thing that can be done by law, only in such a way as to correct the failures of a contract that was not in accordance with the law, because such a thing under our positive legislation is only possible to make public competitions and no one disputed that society did not do a good job, but I don't know where a fellow from where one such mistrust against the citizens of the city of Dubrovnik, the legitimately elected government, its mayor, is capable of taking care of it as if they were all minors or morons, so no one else can but society. I will also tell you that in European societies that are similar, which deal with heritage within certain local units, and even cities only do so by their own means, so by donation, they collect funds rather than from the property of the city.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68273	The reply to the replica of Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68274	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear MPs, let's go from the end. The first thing you said is simply not true, it's not true that these societies do it that way exclusively and it's simply not true. Secondly, this society has never received money from the state at all but has also collected money. So that's another thing. The third thing is how if for any reason it was wanted to break the contract could be done, however it could have been done before the court, why didn't it try to break up if it didn't want the city to break up in court anymore. That didn't happen. It didn't even try to be done. And the stories about it, they're gonna jump that of course citizens aren't morons and stuff, so that's exactly what I'm talking about. But citizens, and citizens are the City Council of Dubrovnik, they are their representatives, the City Council of Dubrovnik has never even discussed it. And we're not talking about the citizens of the city of Dubrovnik, and you and I know it, but we're talking about the mayor, exclusively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68275	And now we'll continue the debate. Comrade Vladimir Shakespeare, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68276	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. What did the legion of this bill, the main ratio legion, so what does the proposer want to achieve and the legislator to achieve, what is the purpose and purpose of achieving with this bill? Obviously, through the discussion of both the promoters and those who support this bill, the legiss was at war to coordinate the factual situation with, according to the position of the motionor with the legal regime which was determined under the Law on Property and other real rights, with Articles 35 and 391. Laws of ownership and other real rights. Let's let that be the case and that the contract under which the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities is governed and lords of the city walls, that it is not in accordance with the Law of Property and other real rights, 35, 39, 391, let's assume so. Even when that's the case, it doesn't work out this way. This is not dealt with in this way by law, it is settled by application and by the Law of Ownership and by other real rights, there is another law relating to the protection of cultural monuments. The city is the owner, the city of Dubrovnik and the representative body and the City Council should comply with the legal regime under the Law of Property and other real rights. In this way, in these countries, all possible injuries and Article 3 are indeed speculative. The Constitution which speaks of the constitutional value of the rule of law, Article 4. The Croatian Constitution, that the state authority is governed by the division of the authorities on legislative, executive and judicial authority is the only limited right to local and regional self-government. In the light of the above, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council. Well, let's take it in a row. If the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities doesn't hand over property to the city of Dubrovnik, the city will ask the public notary to invite society to hand over the property. If this notary does not hand over the property at the invitation, the public notary will draw up a record in the form of a public note, etc. So there is a Law on Public Registration, there is, there are certain rights and duties of a public notary, it cannot be imposed by some specific law in a specific case as to how a public notary will act. And then further to the fact that this record is drawn up by the public notary is an executive document in terms of the regulations governing the enforcement. So there's the ultimate law on executive procedure. On the basis of the minutes, the city of Dubrovnik will request a court of law against the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities to surrender to the possession of city walls, and the executive procedure is urgent. So now the court is simple, and the executive procedure is determined how they will act in a specific case. And finally, sugar in the end, the Earth-booking court will, on official duty, carry out the erasure of the book of extension rights in favour of the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquity, Dubrovnik, Gundulić's Field No. 2. It doesn't say floor or ground floor, it's listed on the load and those particles, the geographical body 6, z.k.a. cartridge 43 as Dubrovnik. Well, that's for the Guinness Book of Records, to disabling the principle of division of the judicial authority and independence and independence of the judicial authority. So you can't work that way, you can't work that way. Many have warned, and on committees have pointed to the synergy of some of the provisions of this law from the position of the Constitution, and from the position of the local European Charter of Local Self-Government, which was ratified by the Croatian Parliament which is part of the Croatian legal order. Many have also pointed out that today in the debate, many have indicated that it is very questionable from the position of the Constitution. Why not wait for the City Council of Dubrovnik to take its stand at the session scheduled? It could also be waited that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, which is also relevant to establish and discuss fundamental issues of ownership relations, take its stand, and I understand that there is now some reason why the chairman of the Committee is not exactly in the situation of calling the Committee, but this does not mean that there will be or will be no day after tomorrow that this committee is convened and that it will give its opinion because many have warned of the disputed constitutional provisions. So the way it's done is not good and it's not in accordance with the Constitution, it's not in accordance with the procedure in which one law is passed. You see, it's done the same way in 2001 when then the ruling majority of the Constitution abolished the County House, the second House of Parliament, when it abolished the ad person of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia and abolished the personal composition of the State Judicial Council. You can't do laws that way. And indeed, the voice of reason should be heard to delay the vote on this law to hear the voice of local self-government, the representative body of local self-government, let the Committee for the Constitution discuss the same thing about this bill from the position of the constitutionality, because if the ruling majority of its majority and pass this law, be assured that on the other hand, Mark’s square will be at one great speed that this law will be returned to us to decide again. I will clearly not prejudge the Constitutional Court's decision but numerous examples of the Constitutional Court's reactions to the reasons we warned of certain non-constitutions have occurred. So, my colleagues, Ingrid, don't think it could be any kind of attack on the Constitutional Court. It is not prone to HDZ, it is more prone to Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68277	Replica Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68278	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You can see the 2009 contract, i.e. the 2009 annex of the contract, made up of the City Council of Dubrovnik by the mayor and the company absolutely accepted without any additions and interventions in the contract annex made up of the city services of the city of Dubrovnik. And this 2009 contract annex is based on the 1998 contract between the city and the company, and it is based on the 1969 basic contract. So this one co-operation between the city of Dubrovnik and society was long and it was in line with social political opportunities before 1990 and after 1990. Thus, when it comes to this illegal procedure, it is certainly not done by society to punish it in this way. And now the question is, what kind of legal certainty is there for legal persons in Croatia at all when such a law sends a message that if one of the parties, and in this case, the city of Dubrovnik is not satisfied with what it has signed that there will then be an interference of the executive and legislative authority which will be made up of such a contract under the applicable legislation and signed off on a burden and, to the detriment of the other, it is in the process in this case of the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's Antiquities. That the situation does not occur, as the Prime Minister said, that this government has passed a hundred regulations, so if the Constitutional Court has also annulled them 4, 5 or 6, 7 it has no bearing on it that this government is still saying that the 95 were clearly in accordance with the Constitution, and the question of whether they were, but for them, the constitutional procedure has not been initiated.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68279	Thank you very much. And now we'll hear the final five minutes on behalf of the HDZ Club. Would you like to share your time with your colleagues? Clear Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68280	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I believe that Mrs Ingrid, from a legal point of view, speaks justifiably and in the best sense, but then at the same time if we want to change in this position on this principle we must immediately amend the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, as the 2nd article states as a kind of lex specialist who owns cultural goods and lists all procedures, gives a definition of cultural goods and determines what can and cannot be applied to it. So this law would, in my opinion, be stronger than this property law that you mentioned. But come on, if it's just a matter of association, I'm especially telling you colleagues and colleagues from the SDP. Let's do this, if you change the first five articles where you delete the threatened whole of Dubrovnik, where the construction laws apply as a whole I'll vote with you for what you've been saying but it won't work out for you. Try to do it. Try to set things up that way and ask your colleagues from the CNS. You won't get away with it. You have the first 5 articles that say that the word is deleted and that construction laws apply within the monumental unit. Because and what Bačić said is the main goal of passing this Law, and that is to have free space within the walls and the availability of money from the walls. Therefore, do not apply to the Law on Property and Legal Affairs because it is simply not true. The problem with this law that repercussions can be so severe that they are irreparable. That's why it's said that cultural heritage is invaluable because you just can't do it again. Mostar bridge that was restored phenomenally after the war destruction, the Mostar Bridge could no longer be treated ever as a cultural good. And it's written on UNESCO's list as a memorabilia, some culturally good, according to criterion 6 as opposed to Dubrovnik written by criteria 2, 3 and 4. So, the damage is so irreversible. The responsibility of anyone who passes a law like this and who stands behind it can be enormous that even now you can't see it at all. That's the problem, and that's why we fight so hard. Repercusions that can... from this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's completely false, it's completely untrue that NGOs out there working on protection and doing this only have their own resources and not their own incomes and incomes from local units, administrations and self-government and state. It's a complete lie, at least 10 I can count for you today. Our closest ones in Italy, Spain, etc., can make their own income, very often make it happen, they can have complete castles to manage. These castles can be closed with special public rights in certain days, and that's how it's done. We also tried to say how to use it if we really wanted the funds, how to put together an operational programme and management plan how to really keep the whole of Dubrovnik on a long-term basis and how to keep it connected to the community and with the immaterial cultural heritage that is within the walls. We're afraid that one day maybe we'll all turn our heads together when one part of Old Town goes by so that what we've done can't be seen. I have to tell you, I've had misjudges in my career, too. There's a locality where it didn't seem like a bad decision to me at the time, but I can't get past it today, I can't look at it. It's a professional assessment, and I signed it for 600 projects a year. And I really appeal to you, analyze the first five articles, let this whole debate go on about the association if you insist on it so much and see what happens to these first 5 articles modified and updated in the old town.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68281	Replica Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68282	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A respected colleague in all discussions including this last one, you probably do not know that the 2010 State Audit for the city of Dubrovnik wrote and instructed that the way in which the management and use of the city walls was arranged is not foreseen by the provisions of the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. The State Audit also recommended to review and amend the way in which the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods was applied. It was also seen for 2011. There are therefore some institutions of the state that have also indicated that the 2009 contract in particular does not comply with certain laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68283	Answer? No, I don't. [[I don't have one.]] Ingrid Antičević-Marinović replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68284	Now let's strip the fellow thing. How many picks a year from tickets? It exclusively funds society, purchases and real estate, 65 million kuna. How much do you invest in the walls themselves? Five million. Let's do more, let's do more. It's given to the city, and it still doesn't make sense. So I'm not saying that they haven't been doing well but trust me this way will work better and the citizens will get better. Because 65 million is coming from tickets. What are the other resources that society has? The truth is, it may be the city's giving something, but you don't have a model like this anywhere. Only from the property of the city of Dubrovnik goes to the Society. And there's your big, big interest because it won't be like that anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68285	The reply to the replica Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68286	And obviously we didn't get along well. In fact, I said that there are organisations, or NGOs, that are financed in a completely identical way. The complete Scotland heritage to you, which under management has at least 20 fortification and established systems is financed exclusively on the basis of tickets, but only on the basis of tickets, exclusively on the basis of tickets and from it renovate monuments and this. So, based solely on that, an identical example. As to the exact amount of money invested in the walls every year, I do not know exactly what the amount is every year, but I must tell you that, immediately half of the funds are allocated to the city of Dubrovnik, and around 20 million kuna per year goes for the restoration of cultural goods from Prevlaka to the top of Pelješac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68287	And the final five minutes on behalf of HNS teammate Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68288	Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I will not say anything that has already been said here. I'm just going to recap and answer some of the views that I think absolutely don't affect the issues that this law deals with. Now, with the obvious opposite of this law according to the Law of Property and other real rights, we are completely disregarded, and after multiple repetition, that this law is opposed to two articles of this law, it is said that it is a legal job that is valid and that it is a confiscation even tells counterpart Reiner that it is a confiscation. It simply ignores the essential fact of the illegality of one job. Is illegality irrelevant in this state? So that's why we're where we are, and that's why the mayor couldn't run any other legal mechanisms, because in this country, the laws are not respected, because the court proceedings take too long and after all the legal remedies have been started, the situation would remain the way it is. That's the problem, and that's why it reached out to this solution that I agree isn't the happiest. It should have been resolved if possible, but it was obviously not possible to resolve in another legal procedure because the laws of this country are difficult to apply. But that's also logical if the representatives of this House go so easily over the fact that some state is legally illegal and they defend it. That's what happened here today. Now we heard just before from fellow Gjurkovic that the State Audit found another illegality in this legal business, which is that the management of Dubrovnik walls is contrary to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. So it's about one anti-cancer legal job. And as long as we go over it with such ease, we can't expect this country to be legal. Because if we treat it this way, then so, according to lawfulness, others will treat it that way. You should be an example of respecting the fact that something is illegal and combating it. But since it doesn't matter, then, of course, other very problematic thesis is being put in place, so what happens to this legal text is just a new method of administrative solution compared to the devastation that took place here in Zagreb. So this compares that each other has absolutely nothing to do with it. There was, therefore, the destruction of some monumental units or some sort of urban space. This is only about one new way of managing. Why would that management lead to a devastation? It's just an assumption that absolutely nothing rests. And if there is no trust in legally elected bodies, in the institutions of this state, and the mayor of one city is the institution of this state to help build not as a person, but as an institution what can we expect. There is confidence in an association of citizens that operates under very loose regulations, and there is no confidence in the institution of mayors who received a mandate from the citizens of the city. It's a very, very strange situation. It is said that all other parts of the Dubrovnik antiquity outside the area of the modern - day city of Dubrovnik will remain in total carelessness. Well, isn't this state real? There aren't any institutions that need to be dealt with. What's with the fear? This state should also have the strength of its institutions, the Ministry of Culture and other institutions including the reinforced Institute for the Reconstruction of Dubrovnik, which is by force, i.e. by the Circumstance of the existence of that association was actually marginalized that they would be able to do so. So you're talking about how money's at stake here. Of course money, but money only as a means of preserving heritage and good governance. Therefore, I do not think the arguments tabled against this law absolutely stand out that there is no respect for the illegality of the present state to these arguments that are absolutely deplaced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68289	Replica, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68290	So you repeat your colleague, and I can't agree with that any other way but again that he's trying to comply with this law and bring this lawless and illegal thing up to the legal level. But I'm gonna do this again. Is the company that is involved in the protection of monumental heritage, therefore, buying from that money, from the sale. There's so much money. And I'm not saying that there's no elite standing there and there's no elite, but with those means, we can bring the world's elite. One who is uneducated can bring these money to the greatest artists and masters of his craft. But they're buying buildings. I don't know if it's normal, they buy buildings, so a couple of buildings, so business premises, so it's rented, so then the question is, what's the real point of it, and then the owner doesn't have the right to react to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68291	Vladimir Shakespeare, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68292	Thank you very much. Once again, assuming that it is an illegal situation, that the factual regime of governance, use and availability of Dubrovnik walls by society is not in accordance with or against the Law of Ownership and other real rights. But that's why there are other mechanisms, which is why there is a mechanism of the court, that the party that holds that it is illegal under contract to respond to the court, and there is also the Ministry of Administration and the Ministry of Justice which could, under the right of supervision, indicate that a certain contract concluded by the unit of local self-government is not in accordance with the law. So I plead so that there is no way to go that if we can meet today in various units of local and regional self-government that some legal acts, some contracts that are inconsistencies or against certain laws. Should it always be the law to bring a state of fact into line with the law? This isn't working. This is a unique case. I don't know the case that it went with, that one factical state at the government's position is in breach of the law and that it goes with the change of laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68293	Replication response, Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68294	I agree with you in everything you said, except that there is one small problem, and this problem is the ineffectiveness of the Croatian judiciary. When you start a procedure like that, it takes 15 years, doesn't it? For 15 years, there has been further illogicality, further deformation in managing important public good, that is the problem. If we had a regulated legal system and respected laws and had effective courts then surely a court case would be the best solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68295	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68296	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Col. Radoš, here is Mr. Gjurkovic now with the findings of the State Audit Office on the financial operations of the city of Dubrovnik. You probably haven't forgotten that society passes 50% of the funds to the city of Dubrovnik. So I'd be interested in whether this find by the State Audit Office refers to those 50% of the funds, which is not very small, it was about 19 million kuna, for example last year, which the city received in a way that the funds transferred him to society. I'm interested in whether this observation by the State Audit Office might refer to those funds, not those the company has on the basis of the collection of kunas, the basis of the contract it signed with the city of Dubrovnik? Otherwise, I don't know where my colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović got the 65 million kuna data when that income never came out. In 2012, the largest income generated by the company amounted to 48 million kuna. I have the exact arrivals. Of which VAT was paid at the amount of 10 million kuna, the company remained 38 million kuna, of which it divided half with the city, so 19 million kuna city, 19 million kuna society and from 19 million kuna 14 million kuna invested in the reconstruction of Dubrovnik's antiquities and 5 million kunas refer to the salaries of 40 employees who during the year during the tourist season charge tickets to tour the walls and all other activities that society clearly has in its business. It also regularly informs those reports to the City Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68297	Replication response, Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68298	It is possible that what would be incorrect in this and therefore transfer part of the funds to the City of Dubrovnik budget, although it is not very logical, because in the finding of the State Audit, there is literally a way of managing the monumental heritage, is not in line with the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. I'm guessing it's a full procedure. Whether it's just that part or not, it's hard for me to answer, but if it's an anti-containment condition again, it needs to be sanctioned and solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68299	And Jasen Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68300	Thank you very much. We have a lot of reservations since the current mayor already has one procedure under way where an inadmissible verdict regarding various actions has been made, so we certainly have additional reserves when... Here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as the audit findings are concerned, you did not quote until the end because they are attached to Article 36. The law on the protection of cultural goods and the missing 3 last words you can check, i.e. 4, which are: and other legal persons. You're welcome to check and see if that's disputed. Finally, it was discussed in the Dubrovnik City Council in 2010 where it was discussed and where it was specified. As for the purchase of real estate, I spent half my debate to explain how the whole can be kept and developed further. All the properties were purchased within the whole. The largest property purchased for nearly a million euros was bought for the needs of the city of Dubrovnik because it was pressured to buy it for certain foreigners for their private use. It's about real estate. Maybe Mrs. Bonacci knows. And the city of Dubrovnik is registered as the owner, the city of Dubrovnik, not the society. Thus, the company did not buy its own property but bought it for the city because it had the means to do so. It's a good thing he bought real estate and didn't go out of town because of what I was saying. That's good. It's much better than if he bought a private owner, that it could further develop it according to the strategy and to everything that should be so that it's the right way actually. It's supposed to work the city to have funds but if not, if the company bought it an object on a wide street and gave it to the city for its use that's the problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68301	Replication response, Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68302	Is that what your colleague Mesic is to you, after all, a replica to my colleague Ingrid, and not to me, I didn't talk about it. But is it logical for you that an association manages the funds owned by the city of Dubrovnik and that it buys some facilities justifiable and gives them to the city? Is it not a city that should do so? So where did you get the idea that some possible malformations of abuse should be greater in the city administration, so in the city council and in the mayor, in the headship than in the association, why? I mean, where does that approach come from? I suppose that this association has done its job properly, should give them credit, but it is a state where such an important thing is delegated to the association with a free way of working rather than legally elected representatives of citizens, a state that is absolutely not natural. I repeat, it is not a logical state, it is absurd and therefore the city should buy its own facilities where it considers it necessary and of course in the interest of the city in accordance with the laws etc. Why should deformities be greater in the work of political bodies and we are the same political body as in the work of some associations. That thesis apropos doesn't stand. I can't agree with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68303	Final address of the proposing representative, Deputy Minister Berislav Šipus, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68304	Thank you, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I thank you for the exhaustive debate and I hold that there have been on one side and on the other, good debates, good thoughts. I'd just like to remind you in the end of really the basics of this law. Many have already said and for what it's brought in, I'll read first in a short time what were motives and leads really for it but I'll give some information that hasn't been heard here this evening or this afternoon because I think it's going to give one fullness in everything that's been said today. Therefore, the contract for the maintenance and use of the city walls complex in Dubrovnik was signed between Dubrovnik Municipality and the Association of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquity in Dubrovnik on 16 April 1969. The addendum of the contract was signed on 31.10.1984 and this contract was off-limits with a contract on the maintenance and use of city walls, which was concluded on 30.06.1998 again between the city of Dubrovnik and the Association of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities. Appendix 1 to the contract was signed on 23 December 2009 and the addition of the second 27 April 2010. The 1998 Treaty, as well as its annexes, were concluded contrary to then applicable law on ownership and other real rights, in particular Articles 35 and 391, which makes this contract a waste of the basis of express legal provisions. Before the conclusion of this contract and no public tender has been carried out, no compensation has been determined in favour of the owner at the market price. Furthermore, the city walls are truly publically well, and today it seems to me that no one has denied it and Article 35. The law on ownership and other real rights is clearly stated among other things to whom it can be given for the management of public good in the general application. This good can be given to managing institutions that are the founder of the owner, i.e. an only child of local self-government. Article 391 of the Law provides for a way of making real estate available to units of local self-government. According to that provision, which entered into force on 1 January 2007, the property owned by units of local self-government and local administration and self-government units may be estranged or otherwise available only on the basis of a public tender and with a remuneration determined at market price if the law is not different. In the case of legal transactions concluded contrary to the provisions of this Article, nothing shall be taken. Today, the cost of public funds without public procurement and the procedure prescribed by the Public Procurement Act was also mentioned in which Article 52 provides that the sea and seashores and islands, water, airspace, mineral goods and other natural resources, as well as land, forests, plant and animal world, other parts of nature, real estate and things of particular cultural, historical, economic and ecological significance for which the law stipulates that they are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia and the law lays down the way in which goods of interest to the Republic of Croatia can be used and the powers conferred upon them and owners and the compensation for the restrictions they are subject to. The next thing I know, in the end, that nowhere in this bill does it appear that society is banned, it doesn't appear anywhere that society can't and doesn't have to work, but that society should still work if it's a volunteer society. Someone here mentioned England, France and God knows what Italian examples, but they forgot to say it was about trusts in most cases, which are other relationships, it's money here. Furthermore, last year the company was offered an agreement in the city on future joint work and on co-operation on the basis of a new contract. So I will remind you that it all started in April 2013 where it was even established on the basis of annual reports that in the last 5 years, the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities on average does not spend more than 5 million kuna a year on the restoration of monumental heritage. However, the city has expressed its willingness to offer three important things on which the previous company insisted that the city of Dubrovnik will not commercialise the walls without the consent of society, that the city of Dubrovnik from the paid incomes each year is paying up to 20 million kunas for the reconstruction of walls and other cultural heritage in the area of the former Dubrovnik Republic, noting that the company should submit regular annual reports to the City Council and carry out the works after the public procurement procedure has been carried out, since it becomes a budgetary user. And that society, which is third, starts every year with 20 million kuna reserved in the city of Dubrovnik budget, but is being reduced there by the funds used from the previous year. Despite the fact that 5 letters were sent to the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities never came to that agreement. Therefore, also dramatizing that something will be built on certain parts of the city of Dubrovnik, I do not see, and I have read one 10 times today Article 3, Article 4, Article 5, which has changed, Article 2, Article 3 and 6, all activities under this law are considered to be in terms of preservation, maintenance and revitalization, which involve rehabilitation, conservation, restoration and reconstruction of buildings and space within the monumental unit, and are implemented under the provisions of this law, the Law on the Protection of Conservation and Cultural Goods and the Rules of Spatial Planning and Construction. I haven't read anywhere about these changes to this law to talk about building or new construction, and when that happens, first I hope that everyone here would get up, culturers first of all, including the Ministry of Culture against something like that. So to assume that no one will ever worry about Stradun again, and that kind of thing, it's really not right. As for the difficult words of colleagues Bačić, the fact that there is a heavy devastation of cultural goods in Croatia is simply not true. There are terrible examples in this country where, according to cultural goods, I would say both material and immaterial, people treat them terribly, truly, but that doesn't mean that the Ministry of Culture and all of us here together won't worry that this isn't happening, including the city of Dubrovnik, whose policy of culture I have a lot of critical, of course, remarks, I could talk about. Therefore, I believe that real changes to the law can put on new foundations the management of city walls that is public good, the income that came into it, so to say to the register of society, is not their money, it is the money of the citizens of this Republic, but also of that city. Therefore, I believe that the relations that will now be re-established will again be in favor of the city of Dubrovnik, that its cultural heritage and development will generally be cultured in that city, and I believe and would, of course, like the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities to continue working hard and to find a modus vivendi together with colleagues from the city of Dubrovnik. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68305	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68306	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A colleague of Šipuš, in order to make something public, should as such be entered in the land book of the competent municipal court in Dubrovnik, so in the land and book department. As far as I have knowledge, and I think I'm right, in the land books of the Municipal Court in Dubrovnik as the title holder of ownership, the city of Dubrovnik, not the general good, not the public good. As is the maritime good, such as roads, water, etc., but the walls are registered in the property of the city of Dubrovnik. So it kind of casts a shadow on your opening premise that it's public here, that it's a public good and that no one has denied it. This denies enrolment in the property book of the Municipal Court in Dubrovnik, and it is very important to mention. The second thing, when we talk about finding the State Audit Office, I suppose the Ministry of Culture should then be very much in its opening or final presentation, and you personally should look back at that finding. And I'd like to ask Mr Gjurkovic when he read a piece of that finding to all the Assembly deputies... So here I'm saying to all MPs, Mr. Deputy, that the findings of the State Audit Office are shared when it comes to the financial operations of the city of Dubrovnik. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I think we'd have something to talk about, Mr Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68307	Clear Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68308	Comrade Shipush, the Ministry of Culture didn't write that law. Your legal department didn't write that law, you didn't write it, and the minister didn't write it. You went to get him, you put the first page forward, and you passed him on. And I understand that you may not understand what the first five articles say. Time will deny either me or you. I prejudge because I think it's better to reconsider these things, because it's going to be much harder to change later. I prejudge because as a ministry, if you failed to resist such a bill, but you released it because of the party agreement between the minister and the mayor, then I don't think you'll be able to resist what's coming to you. Here, that's why I'm prejudged. And I think it's better, and no one can say I didn't warn you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68309	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68310	Final proposal for a law amending the Law on the restoration of the endangered monumental unit of Dubrovnik, second reading, PZ No. 393. The debate on the final draft law is over. The government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment within the deadline and became an integral part of the final draft law. However, the amendments were submitted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Club of Representatives of the HDZ. I would like the representative of Deputy Minister of Culture's Deputy Minister of Honor, Borislav Šipush, to come forward. Amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68311	The amendment shall be adopted in a modified form so that Article 32, which amends Article 43(2), votes "for the protection of cultural goods programmes, the city of Dubrovnik from...".
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68312	You don't have to read. And in a changed form. Excuse me. Thank you. I didn't hear, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68313	Repeat. "For cultural goods protection programmes, the city of Dubrovnik provides total revenue of at least 50% of the net income that the city of Dubrovnik receives from the sale of tickets for the tour of city walls, including the following costs of geological, geomechanical, construction and other research that precedes the restoration of buildings and space within the monumental unit, the seismic strengthening of buildings within the monumental unit, the construction and rehabilitation of municipal infrastructure of the monumental unit, the production of studies, programs, projects, technical and other professional documentation in the preparation phase."
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68314	Amendment holder, on behalf of the Committee, respected representative Valter Boljunčić. Did I get the gesture right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68315	Yes, in fact, that amendment committee wanted to change the law to make the most of it least...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68316	Do you agree with the changed one?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68317	I think it's reserved to take at least half the money. I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68318	You agree. Thank you very much. It became an integral part of the final bill. Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68319	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68320	An explanation, Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68321	The very fact that Dubrovnik is on UNESCO's World Heritage List is held to speak about its importance and the need for special protection of that area and it is not necessary to highlight the word as a monumental whole because all cultural goods and monuments enjoy protection and are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia regardless of the degree of their threat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68322	On behalf of the applicant, the President of the Committee, Honored Representative Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68323	If the applicant indicates the reasons, it is not sufficient to accept the amendments proposed and supported by the SDP club that are then withdrawn.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68324	Thank you very much. Amendment No 2 to Article 2 of the same committee, Deputy Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68325	It is also not accepted and the argument can be repeated.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68326	You don't have to if you repeat it. Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, the Honorable Representative, Zdravko Ronko. He's withdrawing the amendment. Thank you very much. Council of Representatives of the HDZ Amendment 1 esteemed Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68327	He doesn't accept. We believe that it is not necessary to change the name of the law as proposed in the final draft of the law and to mention the area of the former Republic of Dubrovnik, given that the scope of the law is precise.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68328	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, honourable representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68329	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Deputy, the area of law enforcement is defined by the concept of surroundings. In this case, the Dubrovnik area is completely inappropriate, not to say unseriously. So I should, you should have explained during the law what the word of the Dubrovnik area means. Does this mean the areas of Konavle municipality, Zupa Dubrovačka, Dubrovnik coast and the Municipality of Ston. If this means d the Dubrovnik area and these municipalities are understood then this Law is inconclusive because the city of Dubrovnik cannot finance investment in the property of neighbouring units of local self-government. And if the Dubrovnik area under this law doesn't mean the area of these municipalities, then it's a disaster. Because then the Dubrovnik Institute for Reconstruction which was founded to restore the endangered monumental heritage in these units of local self-government we leave this law and tell these units of local self-government more Republic of Croatia by law and for that purpose the established Law will no longer maintain that monumental cultural heritage. I've heard these days, Deputy, that even the Ministry of Culture doesn't know what he's doing but that he's doing it systematically. When it comes to this law, it's absolutely true.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68330	Are you looking for a vote? ... It is. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please state the amendment No. 1. A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. He has an amendment No. 2nd of the same club of MPs. Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68331	Thank you. It's unacceptable. The very fact, I repeat, is that Dubrovnik is on UNESCO's World Heritage List talking about its importance and need to protect that area. We believe that it is not necessary to point out the word at risk as a monumental point because all cultural goods from the monumental community enjoy protection and are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia independently of the degree of their threat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68332	Thank you very much. On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, honourable representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68333	Your Honor, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. Just because something is listed on the UNESCO World Heritage List doesn't mean that it automatically implies that it's compromised. According to this logic, you can completely abolish this Law because this Law is also passed because Dubrovnik is also in the area of the 9th and 10th sesmic zones because it is in a particularly thorny area, threatened by earthquakes, which has been repeated several times throughout its history. The same institution listed in this Act was established after the '79, after the last incentive and the whole situation was a platform for the adoption of this specific law. The issue of endangerment and the issue of enrollment in the list of representative cultural heritage are two different things. We are wondering how the Ministry of Culture, which is responsible for protecting, restoring cultural goods that need to be one of the top priorities, can advocate that the law, which has been passed because of the specific threat of one area, deletes the word and what is obtained. And it is in the process that then other regulations can be applied in this area and not basically caught, as well as those mentioned in the UNESCO Convention. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68334	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment No. 2. A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 3rd of the same Club of Representatives, Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68335	Thank you. The relevant article shall be in conformity. Amendment No. 3., the article in question is in line with the opinion of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. All buildings, whether culturally well or not, are subject to rules in the area of spatial planning and construction. And it is pointed out in the article that this Law applies in the area of Dubrovnik's monumental unit, then the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, as well as the regulations in the area of spatial planning and construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68336	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, honourable representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68337	Mr. President of the Parliament. Your Honor, Deputy Minister, what you said is partly true. In the same article 3 is the key thing that the restoration is the reconstruction of buildings and spaces within the monumental unit to which the laws of spatial planning and construction will then apply. We are wondering colleagues and colleagues who are spaces, free spaces, so not the rebuilding buildings, and for which it is necessary to apply these laws, as Mr. Deputy in the area of spatial planning and construction, rather than the free spaces of these buildings, we do not then call on this article to apply construction regulations. In my opinion, it is the space within the Dubrovnik Walls of the Desert, where there is a certain inadequacy and therefore, in a special law that has been passed just so that this continuity of the historic whole of the city of Dubrovnik is preserved at the small door of the possibility of construction intervention, rather than, if we wanted to do so in this law before then, we call on the UNESCO Convention on World Heritage, which has special procedures as possibly some, intervention in any protected area can be carried out. You colleagues and colleagues will be held accountable once this is actually achieved in the future if you do not support this amendment that we have now proposed. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68338	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment No. 3. A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 4th of the same Club of Representatives, Your Honor, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68339	Thank you. It's unacceptable. The intensity of this article is to provide housing in Dubrovnik's monumental area in accordance with the needs of the population and inhabitants. However, whilst entering any new content, the original, urban and architectural, monumental, artistic and aesthetic values of Dubrovnik's monument will first and foremost be taken into account.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68340	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, honourable representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68341	Dear colleagues and colleagues, if we accept this article and reject this amendment, then we come to the next text. He says: "Constructive and dedicated training of permanent use buildings as well as possible introduction of new content resulting from contemporary housing needs, as well as the carrying out of economic, cultural and other activities." What other activities within the protected complex of Dubrovnik walls, and in our amendment there are possible economic and cultural activities points. The possible economic above all is thought of tourism activities and other activities related to it. What are the contemporary needs of dwellings that are not permitted today under this law, and on which colleagues and colleagues should be ordered to decide on this, the restoration of the city of Dubrovnik, which was previously appointed by the Ministry of Culture, and now changes the ownership rights so that the city is appointed by two members, the Government of two members plus the President of that same Council, so that they automatically have in the Governing Council which decides on the renewal programme each year automatically has a majority and can support everything that comes to that Administrative Council. My colleagues and colleagues, who are other activities within the Dubrovnik walls that are enabled and if they are so good and transparent, why don't we write them in the law. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68342	Please state the amendment number four. A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm assessing he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number five of the same club of MPs, Your Honor's Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68343	Thank you. It's unacceptable. We do not believe that it is necessary to cite the UNESCO Convention on World Heritage because that Convention is legally in force above the law of the Republic of Croatia, so this Convention applies even in the event that a certain law is in conflict with the same. In addition to that Convention, there are a number of other international conventions that protect cultural heritage and, in that sense, not all conventions in that article need not be listed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68344	On behalf of the applicant's club, the esteemed representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68345	It is not necessary to specify the UNESCO Convention on World Heritage, and existing documents of spatial arrangement and regulations governing construction of buildings should be listed. This is about a specific law on the protection of the protected whole of Dubrovnik to be stated, and the UNESCO Convention on which everything rests does not need to be stated. My colleagues and colleagues, a relevant professional association in the Republic of Croatia has criticised such a draft of the law – the conservator's society, the Society of Artists of Art, a number of people who are engaged in long-standing practice in the protection of monuments from Senka Knezevic to whoever you want. At the same time, the Croatian branch of ICOMOS criticised such a draft law. ICOMOS is an international NGO that has branches in 160 countries of the world and they are making an expert assessment of whether anything on UNESCO's lists should be thrown out. ICOMOS is defined as a special international NGO and in the text of the UNESCO Convention where it is precisely authorised for certain matters. After the Dresden case, after being wiped out of the World Heritage List, because of the fact that construction intervention was made at the approach of the protected unit, not even as part of the protected whole, but as the approach to a bridge, German ICOMOS intervened and eventually the city of Dresden was wiped from UNESCO's World Heritage List. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I propose a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68346	I would like to make a statement on Amendment number five of the HDZ Representatives Clubs that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number six of the same club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68347	Thank you, Mr. President. Amendment number six is not accepted Since Article 36 is necessary and justified in order to enable the property of the Dubrovnik fortification system to be returned to the owner, the town of Dubrovnik which is authorised to manage them. [[Adversity President: Explanation.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68348	On behalf of the applicant for the amendment, honourable representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68349	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Deputy. With this law, and above all this article, the Parliament is rudely infringing the trio of government in the Republic of Croatia. Why? Because the team that the Croatian Democratic Community Club proposes to delete the break-up is a voluntary contract between the city of Dubrovnik and the Association of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities and this contract that has been in force for 45 years and which was last amended and re-signed on the proposal of the Mayor of Dubrovnik. I am sure and I am convinced that the Constitutional Court will consider this law unconstitutional. But I ask you what if the City Council of Dubrovnik represented by the owner, the city of Dubrovnik does not want to implement this law in such a way that it does not want to change the contract between it because it was built under the law. And this existing contract will you then, if the city of Dubrovnik, or the City Council, does not implement Article 36, because... decide on your own property. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Will you then disband the City Council of Dubrovnik which regulates the contract on its property or, as appropriate, you will resign if in that case, the City Council does not act as I consider this unconstitutional bill to be an order of conduct for the City Council. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68350	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment No. Six. A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much, I appreciate that he didn't get the necessary majority. And last amendment No. Seven. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68351	Thank you, Mr. President. Amendment No. 7. unacceptable. The amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which has already become an integral part of the final draft of the law, amended that article and therefore the proposed amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68352	Thank you very much. An amendment to the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been accepted, good. Now we'll conclude the vote. I'd like to make a statement about the final bill. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 82 votes in favour, 20 votes against and 4 abstentions have been passed a law amending the Law to restore the threatened monumental block of Dubrovnik in the text as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68353	We move to: - (a) The proposal for a decision on the discharge of members of the Council for Electronic Media; - (b) The proposal for a decision to appoint a member and president of the Council for Electronic Media is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Electronic Media is laid down for the Croatian Parliament to appoint and resolve the President and members of the Council on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Would you like an introductory explanation? The introduction will explain the proposals for the Deputy Culture Minister's decision, Professor Berislav Šipus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68354	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Law on Electronic Media Director of the Agency for Electronic Media, who is also President and Member of the Council for Electronic Media, Mr Zdenko Ljevak, has submitted a request for the discharge of his duties as of 31 December 2013, on which he was appointed by the Croatian Parliament's decision of 5 June 2009. Mr Ljevak has therefore applied for the discharge of the duties of a member of the Council for Electronic Media. However, due to the passage as you know the time it is proposed to be resolved from the duty of Mr. Levak without mentioning this precise date on... This will be resolved by the publication of a decision on resolution by the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Secondly, on the basis of the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Culture issued a public invitation under the Law on Electronic Media to appoint a member of the Council for Electronic Media and to collect applications for candidates. Members of the Council for Electronic Media appointed the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Culture received 19 applications from candidates submitted within a certain public call. And considering the above-mentioned applications, the Ministry of Culture proposed that the government propose to the Croatian Parliament the appointment of Mrs Mirjana Rakic as member and president of the Council for Electronic Media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68355	Thank you. Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68356	So this is going slowly into a word I don't know what to use, a lardy, that a representative of the government says he doesn't know what date he'll settle with, and that Mr. Leviak will be resolved with a date that's published when the Parliament is, that's ridiculous. I know you want to name Mrs. Rakic because she's political, but they have certain rules that make the acts that are sent to this House of Commons. And if you solve someone, you must specify the date with which they are resolved. The decision cannot be made by the Croatian Parliament. You're the promoter and you're proposing a date. And now we're going back to that previous point, it's no wonder that my colleague Mesic spent so much time. So if you solve someone, tell them when, if you name someone, tell them when. And you didn't say that now, unfortunately. You resolve a man on his personal request. You're naming someone on your political proposal. No matter what we object to, but you must have a date. And I don't understand, Madam Vice President, how such a point can be found on the agenda. I know what it says, Madam Secretary, it all stands, but I'm just saying, look at the phonogram of the session, which the deputy minister said on behalf of the motionary. Let's drop what's in the law, he was saying the opposite of what's in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68357	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, colleague Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68358	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Perhaps at first sight, colleagues and colleagues are involved in a common recall and a common appointment. Mr. Levak resigned four months ago, more than four months ago. That resignation was not accepted. He resigned in September because it was already known that Mrs. Rakic would be appointed to this place. And if you look at the documents attached to this appointment, then you will see that for 4 months you have been waiting for a tender to be held by 19 candidates and candidates to be named Mrs. Rakic, who has been from 1.1. or 3.1. if I am not mistaken in retirement. So on this whole series of young experts and everything else we pull people out of retirement who have been journalists on HRT so far, they have no experience in working in an independent control body, they have no experience in media regulation, no experience in those jobs that the council as an independent regulator performs, and what the council is doing is doing exactly the most in HRT. Why does the competition not insist that a member of the Electronic Media Council has a high level of expertise? It wasn't always the case in the past, but I think it would be good. Does Mrs. Rakic have VSS or do we immediately propose her president of the Council for Electronic Media? If you have her resume, you'll see. Is it possible that between the 19 candidates and candidates of which some science masters are not better candidates for this place than Mrs. Rakic? Is what awaits us in the future with this is strengthening the agency which has a wide range of its work competences and obligations and which are very important for the development of Croatian media production whether it can be preserved and developed. The big question is, can the new leader answer these things? I would like to remind you that we have had summer changes to the Law on Electronic Media which allowed the Fund for pluralism of the media intended for the development of small local radios and TV stations for the first time opened the possibility of funding from these funds something called non-profit media that is now receiving what from the budget of the Ministry of Culture, which from that fund more than 6 million kuna. More than a complete archive... The Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's enough to open up a medium, some portal, that you're an association, that you don't make a profit, you don't have any other obligations, and you get donations, like, from the Ministry of Culture to the amount of $400,000. And no one's asking you any further. Well, it's really coming to a man that I'm in his association, like the diving club is setting up a portal, so let's say that by interpreting the protection of cultural heritage in protected areas, I'm sure he'd get a grant of 400 thousand kuna. Although I don't believe it because he'd probably be criticizing the laws in the field of protection of protected units on that portal. So you probably wouldn't. I just want to say one thing, among other things in the Council for Electronic Media last time we had the appointment of a person the commission concluded was in conflict of interest. Mrs. Goga Simonovic, who was voted by colleagues and colleagues from the Kukurik coalition in conflict, is of interest to find the commission because she is at the same time in the Governing Council of HINA and in an independent regulator that must not be. She hasn't retired yet. And now you're proposing to a person, we're going to hear from Mr. Deputy Minister whether he has a high-tech or not, a person we remember according to our information that she said that President Tudjman is a war criminal, an objectivity figure. Such a person should also support the president, i.e. the President of the Council for Electronic Media, an independent regulatory body that will monitor all television, all radio stations and all non-profit media in the Republic of Croatia. The HDZ Club won't accept a proposal like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68359	Thank you very much. ... final. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we have a replica before that. Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68360	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I suppose you can see why the Deputy Minister in his opening statement did not say the date when Mr. Levak was being resolved because the moment all this was resolved it was not known when Mrs. Rakic would retire. You said he didn't have high-tech equipment, it's important he had party equipment. And very important that you should have stressed that courage and for giving this statement was collected after the 3rd January elections and this statement was made on 4 January. But it will likely be much more objective in judging non-profit media than it was objective in assessing the historical role of President Tudjman. However, given some statements, one day the prime minister, the president of the Croatian government and other party listeners obviously want to revise Croatia's history but in ways that our biggest enemies have not audited either.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68361	The reply to the replica Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68362	There are some international courts who have said that there is no joint criminal enterprise, and that some things have been put in the history of their judgments where they should be put. But now look at how this trust after we've reached political consensus in the HRT Act, now that we've opened this appointment for an independent regulator who should oversee all the media, where we're going with a proposal like this. But I remind you, colleague Shuker, that analysts have shown that lately while Mrs Rakic was one of the leading people on television that the representation of the position and opposition in the public media, first of all here I think about Croatian broadcasting was about 90% for the position, 10% for the opposition. And by the logic of things, it's okay. And here's obviously the person that needs to be rewarded to be at the head of an independent regulatory body, so I guess then they're going to evaluate the work of other media that, when they treat objectively showing things, they're probably going to be satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68363	Mr. Shipush, do you want the final? Here you go. Professor Berislav Šipush.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68364	Thank you, Madam Vice President, here's a very short one. As for Mr. Levko's resolution, he himself insisted that he write the date 31.12., we were ready with the complete material, however, there was no vote in December 2013. And in the proposal that we have here, together with all other materials, this decision on the resolution of the members of the Council for Electronic Media, Zdenko Ljevak is hereby resolved as member of the Council for Electronic Media, Class, Service Number, Zagreb, President of the Croatian Parliament Josip Leko. So we hold that as well as its resolution, Mrs Rakic's appointment will be on the day of the Croatian Parliament's decision. As for Mrs Rakic Mirjana, she received a diploma in Zagreb on 30 December 1971 for the completed studies of a graduate politologist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68365	Replica Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68366	In the materials we discussed on the board there are three letters from Mr. Leviak. One since early September, one from mid-September and one from December. Neither in a letter from the beginning of September nor since mid-September, there has been a request to be resolved by 1.1, but it is only mentioned after the third letter of Mr Lievko and it exists in our materials that colleagues and colleagues have seen. At the same time in a public call, we're glad that this fellow Shipush told me about the study of politicology. At the same time, the public call was not precise and this is a advice for the future that it must be a high professional preparedness for those places, so that the possibilities and which in order to be able to decide whether a person is really competent to be in the regulatory body or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68367	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68368	So, Madam Vice-President Deputy Minister has repeated what I said. So you as a proposer have to define the date when someone settles, when someone is named. You have to say it here, because if you don't say it, we can't make a decision because that decision is incomplete. Say that it's... etc. you for the appointment exactly for a million and one reason you have to define the date. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If you knew that you couldn't discuss this law until then and then you could make what I know be named on February 15th and resolved. But you can't leave an empty date like this. This could be the first or eighth day of publication in the People's Journal or the day of publication in the People's Journal. But all appointments and resolutions must go with an exact date for a million and one reason. And look at the decisions made by this House of the High never made any decision that was not precisely defined by which date someone was resolved, with which date someone was appointed.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68369	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the motions for a decision later.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68370	We are going to propose a Decision on the discharge of members of the Electronic Media Council and a proposal for a Decision appointing a member and president of the Electronic Media Council. ... I'm listening? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear Representative Ivan Shuker. ... It's all right, there you go. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68371	No, I won't. Since last night when this law was discussed in the assembly, there were only 4.5 MPs, and colleagues will vote for something they don't know what they're going to vote for. For what? I didn't mean to offend anyone. Let me say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68372	No, no, but there's no further discussion of fellow Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68373	No, but I'm just asking you, Mr. President, after the debate last night, it was not clear which date is being resolved, or which date is being appointed. Because what it says in the material is one thing, and the government's representative was saying something else entirely. I'd like to ask, and that's why my colleague and colleagues answered my word because you're going to vote for something you don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68374	Okay, I got it. But you haven't written a comment or an amendment to the motion for a decision or is a government. So, I'm sorry. ... About what, Your Honor? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, it's over, it's over. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please, the decision-making debate is closed. I am voting on a proposal for a Decision on discharge. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 87 for, 14 against and 1 abstention, a decision has been taken to resolve the members of the Electronic Media Council in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Secondly, I am voting on the proposal for a Decision appointing. Please make a statement. Who's in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 87 for, 13 votes against and 2 abstentions, have been decided to appoint a member and president of the Council for Electronic Media in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68375	And we will just discuss it by agreement - The proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the list of legal persons of special national interest is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Rules of Procedure shall apply when making a decision. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Local, Regional, Regional Self-Government. You received the report at the session. Introducing the motion for a decision by the Minister of Administration, Mr Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68376	Thank you, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The basis for this decision is the Law on preventing conflicts of interest. That law provides that officials may not be members of administrative bodies and supervisory boards of commercial companies, boards of directors of institutions, or supervisory committees of extra-financial funds, nor perform management tasks in business entities, and that exceptional officials may be members of up to two boards of directors of institutions or supervisory committees of extra-financial funds which are of particular national interest or are of particular interest to a unit of local or regional self-government, or if the special law does not provide that the official is a member of the board of directors of the institution, the Supervisory Board and an extra-financial fund in a position. It is important to note that the list of legal persons of particular national interest is important for the implementation of the law on the handover of authorities which is prescribed that public officials who are members of the Chamber of Commerce, the administrative councils of the institutions or the supervisory committees of extra-financial funds for which the Croatian Parliament determines that they are of particular national interest to make membership in those bodies available to the body that appointed them. In December 2010, the Croatian Parliament adopted a decision on a list of legal persons of special state interest published in "National Journal" 144/10 on the basis of the then applicable Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties. The new Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, which was adopted in March 2011, provides for that decision to remain in force. As the decision of 2010 followed the status changes of certain legal persons, the proposal for this decision proposes that the list of legal persons of particular national interest be brought into line with the amendments to the rules, as well as, in accordance with the proposals of the resolution ministries, the addition of the list of legal persons of particular national interest. For the purpose of harmonising with the amendments to the list of legal persons of special state interest, it is proposed to delete legal persons who have ceased their work and to the Archaeological Museum Osijek, which is attached to the Museum of Slavonia, the companies HZ Holding d.o.o. and HZ Vuka train d.o.o., Croatian Institute of Technology HIT d.o.o. Zagreb and the Croatian Privatisation Fund. In order to comply with the decision to establish a list of companies and other legal entities of strategic and special interest for the Republic of Croatia, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia made in September 2013 by proposing this decision from the list of legal persons of special national interest, it is proposed to delete the following companies: Shipbuilding Industry 3. May d.d. Rijeka, Shipyard Kraljevica, Shipyard Viktor Lenac, Brodosplit, Brodotrogir, Croatian Olympic Centre Bjelolasica, IPK Osijek, Capital Fund d.d. Zagreb, Luka Ploče d.d., Pleter services d.o.o., Uljanik d.d. Pula and Vjesnik d.d. Zagreb. In accordance with the proposals made by the ministries, the proposal for this decision also proposes an addition of the list of legal persons of particular national interest, and is proposed to establish in the list of legal persons the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, and health institutions whose founder is the Republic of Croatia and which, in view of their partial business interests, are of particular national interest. The Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices and the Agency for Quality and Accreditation in Health and Social Care, whose founder is also the Republic of Croatia, and all health institutions established by the Health Protection Act, as they carry out a health care activity established by the Health Care Act as an activity of interest for the Republic of Croatia as a public service. Public scientific institutes and public higher schools, since scientific activity and higher education represent an activity of particular interest for the Republic of Croatia and are part of an international special European, scientific, artistic and educational space. Then, the Public Institution Memorial Center of the Homeland War Vukovar, which is in view of the activity it will carry out with special state interest, the Maritime Centre for Electronics d.o.o. Split owned by the Republic of Croatia, and the company's activity is the production of electronic equipment, research and development, the production of weapons of military equipment of interest to the Republic of Croatia. These Restructure and Sales Centre, which has taken over the activities of the Agency for the Management of State Property, which was the legal successor of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, which is proposed by this proposal to delete and which has also ceased working. In order to comply with the decision to establish the list of companies and other legal persons of strategic and special interest for the Republic of Croatia, the proposal for a decision in the list of legal persons of particular national interest is also proposed to establish the highway Zagreb-Macelj, BINA ISTRA, Croatia Brodogradnja Jadranbrod, APIS IT Zagreb and Sunčani Hvar d.d. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68377	Does a representative of the board want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the club of independent representatives, colleagues Grubisic and Cain were reported. They're not present, they're losing the right to argue on this wheel. And on behalf of the HDZ club, colleague Jasen Mesic. Comrade Mesic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68378	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here at this late hour one decision at first sight is irrelevant, but you know when almost half of the government is in conflict of interest then the Honored Minister Bauk has a very responsible obligation to write down as many institutions as possible which are of particular national interest and because, of course, this decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the list of legal persons from the special state interest to the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest adopted by the Croatian Parliament of course. I don't need to repeat which ministers are in conflict of interest, there will also be a ministerial assistant and directors, the director of HRT is in conflict of interest. Although he says he's not in a conflict of interest but when he negotiated with someone that he would come to that place, they didn't tell him he was going to be an official. He's the only one who didn't say who he was making deals with, but that's who he is. That's terribly interesting, and I'd like to ask our distinguished colleague, or minister, to apologize, to explain the logic of what universities are put here with all their constituents, so colleges and colleges, and not, say, high school. As far as the same thing is concerned with county hospitals and health homes. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68379	My colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68380	So who comes to the word, Madam Vice President?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68381	Here you go, and if you have any objections, please report for either the replica or the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68382	It's very interesting that there isn't an Immunological Institute in here. That's not of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, for example. At least I couldn't tell him in this late hour, but I don't think I'm wrong. I'm glad that a public institution has been put in place at the Homeland War Memorial Center of Vukovar, which I am pleased to praise and commend from the HDZ Club. I don't understand what logic some philosophy institutes are based on, and why some museums that are founded by the Republic of Croatia, etc. are not put in place. State museums. Only archaeologists have five, so we don't move on. Why, say, the Institute of Archaeology is, and the Archaeological Museums in Split are two state-owned not being put in place? ... Why is it not Pula AMI – the Archaeological Museum of Istria? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What logic does this principle apply? I'd even be more logical to have a museum here than the Institute of Archaeology. I think given the situation that we had in the current government that it might not be too bad to mention in one article and put it more descriptively in it and put private magazines, agricultural pharmacies and various other types of businesses and institutions which, as such, can lead to conflicts of interest. I think that would be good because it can often happen to us, let's say that by not knowing the magazine that we co-owners get out of the state budget, 600 thousand kuna, and then the zealous commission hit us with a fine of 15 thousand kuna in the wars. Well, almost every day a man should be in conflict of interest. I don't really know why it's set that way. ... Yeah, but I wasn't the owner. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So I wasn't in a conflict of interest. I'd like to ask you, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68383	Comrade Shucker, allow a representative of your club to discuss in peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68384	I must say that no matter how much we appreciate what Mr. Minister has stated under the number 169th Public Center of the Homeland War Vukovar, no matter what we appreciate and welcome, we will still not be able to support this bill and the HDZ club will be against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68385	Minister Arsen Bauk's final presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68386	Dear Representative Mesic, you were once the Minister of Culture, it seems to me, 2010.When the Croatian Parliament made a decision on the list of what we are now changing, and at that time were in the decision I will read to you, the Ansambl of National Dances and Songs of the Croatian Queen Lado Zagreb, the Archaeological Museum of Istria Pula, therefore he is not in this decision because this is a complete decision and he is already in the decision and you were the minister when it was made, and I am surprised that you do not remember 2010, the Archaeological Museum Narona Metković, Archaeological Museum Osijek, we have now erased him because he is already attached to the museum, the Archaeological Museum Split, Zadar, Zagreb, Trakoscan, it was in nature protection and that is why these museums are not in this decision because they are already in the decision so we cannot add them twice as well. And as for the facilities on the Committee's conflict of interest, so of course I'm glad the commission works, I'm glad, and when you look at the Commission's pages, you'll see the names of the state what the local officials are dealing with, and they're one of those trans-party lists, there's some HDZ chiefs, there's some of the SDPs, there's also the HNSs, and that's good. Looking at the practice of the commission, I read sometimes decisions and explanations more for educational purposes so that I know what I shouldn't do if I happen to be in a similar position not to do the same and read opinions and conclusions. And I'm only sorry that the commission wasn't elected immediately 2011.When the law was passed because then probably one part of your administration would also have been in this act and we were against the provisions that the Constitutional Court had put out of force anyway, we were against, but I also remember because I was a representative at the time that during the vote on members of the commission I had representatives from the HDZ Club who were very happy that the commission had not passed. Thus, even then, there was no great enthusiasm in the ruling party and coalition for this commission to be chosen, and here we are not to go any further in this late hour I will likely have opportunities in the replica to respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68387	A clear Mesic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68388	Yes, dear colleague Bauk, I was not a minister in 2010. I know it was Minister Bozo Biskupić, I was minister, I was voted between Christmas and New Year 27.12. So, and I was minister in 2011, you will long remember that with nostalgia. As for the fusion of the Slavonia Museum and the Archaeological Museum of Slavonia, that provision was otherwise to be reacted by your ministry. I think you have that case at the Ministry. Check it out. Namely, in order for the state museums to fusion, a previous opinion by the museum council is needed. However, the then assistant, Mr. Taker who has not been happily held in that position, has pushed that decision past that decision, therefore it is illegal and we do not know at what stage the case is resolved. As for the Commission for the Conflict of Interests and the right to register an employee's property card, I particularly follow the section of the commission's work report. You must agree with me that yet one councilman in one municipality is not exactly the same when a conflict of interest is caught by the minister and that the level of responsibility is not the same and that the level of caution cannot be the same. And also, as far as the property card is concerned, so whoever in the shortest time is the most silent, you know the difference when you've had since you've been on duty, so when you're off duty, I think that maybe there's an interesting thing to see, and even from some of today's ministers that sometimes the MPs have succeeded here with a modest denial of all of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68389	Thank you. Replication response, Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68390	Yeah, I guess you're right. Yes, I remember now through the fog, and there was snow in fact that you were chosen at the end of 2010 but well at the time that decision was made I think you were also in the Ministry of Culture, you had some function I think. And I will certainly remember your mandate because for some reason because you didn't or the Prime Minister wouldn't let you open the Split Summer then I had the chance to open the Split Summer instead of the President of the Republic, which is why I will remember most to be honest, but that is the same. It's all written. And then Bratch was burning, so we remember, you asked him to clap, you see that I remember quite well. So here I think my sin that I misstated when you were a minister has at least eased a little bit, okay. Thank you. As far as conflicts of interest are concerned, by reading the Commission's decisions, there is a certain distinction when they say that this article and the law have been violated and when they say that someone is in conflict of interest. What happened to colleagues in the government is this formulation, so that the article was broken and it was not, it says, that they were in conflict of interest and it was explained why and because they got relatively small penalties because 40 thousand kuna was the biggest punishment but of course by having been financially damaged and they paid it, and it is the price they paid and will still be exposed there and there to criticism in parliament which they would probably have done, so it is nothing illegal. And I agree that it's not the same when ministers do it, but when they do it, the council members don't do it because they're not officials under this law, but when they're doing it, they're not councilmen, so when they do it, they're not councilmen of smaller municipalities, and we really had a case of re-election in one municipality.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68391	Thank you very much, Minister. Branko Bacic replica. He gave up. Then we'll conclude the debate. We'll vote on the motion for a decision tomorrow. And tomorrow at 9.30, we will continue the session with a debate on the proposal for a plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis for 2014. Thank you! Goodbye!
ParlaMint-HR_2014-01-30-0.u68392	Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the list of legal persons of special national interest. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 87 votes in favour, 17 votes against amendments and additions to the Decision on the list of legal persons of particular state interest in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
