ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u64300	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, we're going to stop working a little bit now because every moment we expect His Excellency Mr. Jean Pierre-Bell, President of the Senate of the French Republic to enter the hall. Give it up. Dear MPs and MPs, today in the Croatian Parliament I have the honour to welcome his Excellency Mr Jean-Pierre Bell, President of the Senate of the Republic of France, who is on official visit to the Republic of Croatia. I ask his Excellency Mr. Jean-Pierre Bell, President of the Senate of the Republic of France to address us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u64301	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of Friendship Croatia – France and France – Croatia, ladies and gentlemen representatives, Madam Ambassador, dear friends. Right in Zagreb, so I wanted to start my European tour with you, which will take me to Greece and Albania in the next days. And I want to tell you that I am extremely happy and excited, but also honored to be able to speak today in your Parliament, or in the Assembly of the youngest EU member states. Know that France and we all wanted to welcome you into our family, and it is quite unanimous for the French Senate as well as for the French Parliament, so they unanimously pleaded for your EU accession. Can we even seriously think about Europe without mentioning Dubrovnik where I will go tomorrow, or Split, which is actually the essence of European civilization. Your accession to the EU I remember actually one event when we invited you last year, or we invited your soldiers to participate in a pass-by on the Elyces ECS during our national holiday. The excitement was unmistakably great, because we all knew how long you've come, a long and difficult path, and that you've also had to live through all the tragedies of the 20th century from the horrors of two world wars until this last conflict. Recently, however, you must also fight to overcome this economic crisis that is very difficult for your country, which is unfortunately the result of the global crisis. However, your authority really endures all this. And I want to express a confession here because of their tenacity that they never miss out on disappointments or skepticism and that they definitely want the whole people to want to pull back on themselves in this project. Of course you're not at the end of the road yet, because there's another job waiting for you. You'll need to help the countries in your environment. So, all the countries of your region that they also enter that community that protects everyone. Here I would especially like to welcome all those among you who have had the courage and who have risen, absolutely and given their hand to the enemy this morning. And I hope that same same old enemy from tomorrow to become your new friend. Croatia and Serbia must now serve as an example throughout the world, which from Syria to Central Africa actually despairs sometimes because of their own humanity. Of course it's not that, it's beyond a doubt, it's not easy, but believe me, I need it. France and Germany did this once, and it seems particularly symbolic to me that these two countries that have fought so much in history have actually decided one day to conspired against this fatality and to open up here in Zagreb a common French-German school. And yet Europe has won, absolutely overcome the hatreds and misunderstandings. To highlight your overwhelming desire to give your children the chance not to live through the same things or to know about impatience. From now on, we belong to the same Union and we must really do everything possible to bring this new Europe to light. Because today's Europe is too marked by liberalism, economic liberalism, which is not interested in the aspirations of individuals. And he's obsessed with just financial gain. Unfortunately, there are many who think that we have actually betrayed the ambitions of our founding fathers and that we have disappointed those who today only think that it is one technological structure that is willing to pity us all. It's up to us, I think we need to invent something new. We must all give a new turn to Europe together and be at the height to make the dreams of those who showed their first wish come true. I want the next elections, the European elections to be one new leap and not leave much room for skepticism and retreating into national feelings. But that doesn't mean we have to lose our identity and our culture. I want these European ties that connect us to be also an opportunity to develop even better and develop our bilateral relations, above all the cultural relations whose wealth has proved absolutely through the Festival "Here's Croatia" which took place last year, that is, in 2012 in France and next year you will have the opportunity to get to know France better and its culture. Education is also an area in which we can promote the Francophony without borders because Croatia has been a member since 2006 and I must mention in particular the importance of the existence of French alliances and French institutes in Zagreb. I thank Mrs. Michael André who mentioned it to me and who followed me around in everything. I must also mention one well-known languageist and the Frankophone of Mr. Professor. Peter Guberina, who knew how to get deaf children out of their world of silence and who was also a great friend of Leopold Sedar Senghor and Aimee Cessaire, the ardent defenders of the Francophony opened to all horizons. I want your country to grow right now when the EU is preparing to make significant funds available to you from European funds very much needed by your economy. So now move on to ambitious projects and know that our French companies are ready to follow you on that path to absolutely restore and develop your road, port and energy potentials. I'm glad to say in fact that Croatia is receiving more and more French tourists. I remember my youth when I came as a tourist in Croatia. However, Croatia now attracts 450 thousand of our citizens each year who, on their return, become the best ambassadors of Croatia. Yes, France and Croatia can do a lot of things together in the continuation of the strategic partnership that we signed in 2010, and I know very well how determined our parliamentary parliaments are to support this very swing. And two presidents of the French-Croatian and Croatian-French friendship testify. And let me actually conclude these few words by sincerely thanking you all, especially President Lek who invited me to Croatia and who spoke to me with a lot of love and feelings about Croatia and who gave me the opportunity to actually give you this opportunity to give you a few words that I give you honestly from the bottom of my heart. Dear friends lived Croatia, lived France, lived a friendship that brought together our two countries and lived the EU that is now our common destiny. Thank you. . [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u64302	I thank him. Mr Jean-Pierre Bell, President of the Senate of the Republic of France at his address, and I wish him a pleasant continuation of his visit and stay in the Republic of Croatia. . We are now continuing our regular work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73424	Dear fellow MPs, respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament continue the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, plenary session with - Proposed law on financial operations and accounting of non-profit organisations, first reading, P.Z. No. 611. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to the first reading of the law apply to the adoption of this Law. These are the provisions of Articles 183 to 188. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received reports from these working bodies of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73425	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In front of you today is the Proposed Law on Financial Business and Accounting of Non-profit Organisations. Currently, the accounting of non-profit organisations has been prescribed by a Regulation on the accounting of non-profit organisations that was first adopted in 2008 and has changed four times to date. The multi-annual application of the regulation identified the need to set up a legislative framework that would prescribe a system of sound financial management and control not only in the section of accounting but also in the part of planning, programming, drawing up and implementing financial plans, and reporting. The Regulation did not adequately respond to requests for the application of the principle of public and transparency in particular in the part of the financial reporting and it was not possible to prescribe infringement provisions for the purpose of the timely submission of financial reports and to correct other irregularities in the financial operations of non-profit organisations. The new Financial Business and Accounting Act of non-profit organisations aims to fully regulate the system of financial operations, accounting, and supervision of financial operations and accounting of non-profit organisations. The law defines the bonds of application of the principle of the financial management system, the production, reporting of financial plans, reporting on budget spending, accounting principles and accounting transactions, financial reporting, audit of annual financial reports, specific cases of law enforcement, register of non-profit organisations, public publication of annual financial reports, supervision, and infringements of provisions. The adoption of the law is also foreseen by the National Strategy to create an incentive environment for the development of civil society and the Action Plan for the implementation of the Open Authority Partnership in the Republic of Croatia. These documents before the law have requested the establishment of a more transparent system of non-profit organisations, especially those financed from public sources, and the introduction of an obligation to produce and submit financial reports to all non-profit organisations. The business of non-profit organisations should be based on the principle of sound financial management and control. Financial management and control shall concern management responsibility in the planning, programming, development and implementation of financial plans, accounting, reporting in order to achieve objectives and ensure the protection of resources from losses, inadequate use and fraud. The principles of public and transparency are reflected among other things and through the obligation to publish the financial reports of all non-profit organisations through a register of non-profit organisations run by the Ministry of Finance and the obligation to publish an audit report on the annual financial reports carried out for non-profit organisations with incomes of more than 10 million kuna, and to review financial reports for those non-profit organisations between three, which have income of more than 3 or 10 million kuna. Due to the need for statistical data to cover the entire non-profit sector, the obligation to deliver financial reports of all non-profit organisations is introduced, but adjusted to the level of income and value of assets. Part of non-profit organisations will continue to be able to run simple bookkeeping, but will have an obligation to draw up annual reports, shortened content compared to non-profit organisations run by dual accounting, and maintain the obligation of quarterly reporting. To this day, non-profit organisations, so up to 100,000 kunas, have led by this law, are changing. So up to 100,000 kunas so far, they're now rising to 230,000 kunas so they can run simple accounting. Those non-profit organisations which are obliged to establish a company or other form of association which is not non-profit to carry out economic activity, other than the provision of rental and lease services. The current practice in implementing the Regulation pointed out the need to introduce infringement provisions, in particular where accounting documents and the conduct of non-profit organisations do not comply with the provisions of regulations, revenues, expenditures and assets and obligations are not presented in a prescribed manner or a non-profit organisation does not draw up and deliver financial reports within the prescribed time and form. I'm going to give you some financial data from the cumulative financial reports on non-profit organisations, so we're going to get a different picture of what was actually wanted by this law. In the Register of Associations, it is a register run by the Ministry of Administration registered 50901 associations. The second register, run by the Ministry of Finance, included 25481 non-profit organisations in the Register of Non-profit Organisations on 3 March 2014 and 16754 of those organisations that ran double accounting and 8727 who ran simple accounting. Of the 25481 non-profit organisations, the most represented are associations and these are 23512, which means around 92%. 419 institutions, 292 tourist communities, 280 trade unions, 219 art organisations, 194 religious communities and legal entities founded by religious communities, 132 foundations, 90 political parties were also registered in the register of non-profit organisations. According to the 2012 cumulative form, the financial reports were submitted by 12200 non-profit organisations. The total revenues of all non-profit organisations that submitted the 2012 Report amounted to $12.7 billion. If Croatian waters are excluded, DAB and HANDA which you know entered the 2013 Budget are total revenues when the three non-profit organisations are reduced is 9.2 billion kuna. The revenues of more than 1 million kuna have been achieved by 1193 non-profit organisations. Incomes of over 3 million kuna have been achieved by 426 non-profit organisations while revenue of more than 10 million kunas has been shown by 138 non-profit organisations. As we have said in the Register of Non-profits, the largest part of the association is also one of these 12200 non-profit organisations 10624 related to associations that made 4.5 billion kuna revenue. So here we're only talking about 4.5 billion kuna associations of 10624 organizations. At the end of 2012, the associations did positive business. When we talk about that excess income over expenditure and when it's downgraded to their accumulated deficits somewhere at 76 million kuna. However, when their cumulative balance passed down from year to year for their deficits the cumulative balance for the following year, i.e. for 2013 amounted to 834 million kuna. The balance of money on 10624 associations, the balance on the account they had on 31.12., is 800 million kuna. However, what is interesting about these associations is that transport through transaction accounts for 2012 was 13.7 billion kuna. Transport through the account of non-profit organisations in 2012 was 13.7 billion kuna and 4% of GDP respectively. Traffic that isn't taxed. These 10624 associations that submitted financial reports employ 9757 workers whose total salary expenditure was 867 million kuna. When you get and divide some numbers, the two points out that on average there is an average gross salary in associations of about 7402 kuna. We said that associations have revenues of $ 4.5 billion, traffic through a transaction account of $13.7 billion. The majority of the revenues are donations and donations amount to 2 billion kuna or 44% of their total income. And the maximum amount of donations comes from local budgets, budgets of municipalities, cities, counties and central budgets. When you see a total central budget and local budgets, that's 1.2 billion kuna. So, from donations of 2, 1.2 total, it comes from donations from the central local budget. As you have seen these figures here from the cumulative financial reports for 2012 you can see a huge disproportionate amount of income from only this part and a certain portion of traffic. The aim of the law is to regulate the area of non-profit organisations in a comprehensive way. If you're looking at the entire economic picture in the Republic of Croatia, then you know that companies are regulated and have their own laws. The Accounting Act and the Company Act which regulates their business. Their financial statements are public. Of each trading company on the website of FINA, public data are for any of the 90 or how many 100 thousand companies operating in the Republic of Croatia. They're regulated, there are certain standards. When you look at another group, it means these are budgetary users or budgets, meaning the Budget Law and the Budgetary Accounting Act and the unit of local self-government means they are defined by law, way of doing business, way of reporting, public publication of government financial reports and local units. However, this third area, the area of non-profit organisations where you saw yourself, according to the Ministry of Administration, standing somewhere around 50,000 of them are registered, most likely this number that is in the register of non-profits around 25 thousand are these active. Because in order to get any funds from the budget or local or central, you have to register in that register. Then you get the difference between active and inactive. When out of these 25 grand, unbound is the water... 12 thousand submits financial reports, 12200 and 10624 of the association, and when you see these figures of financial operations of one part of those who report and you can't by regulation because you don't have any violations or supervision, you can't force them to submit financial reports, there are no certain violation provisions that this is one area that we certainly want to define and set clear rules and clear regulations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because if in times of crisis where the state is under the knowledge and pressure and financial consolidation, in accounts untaxable, about 4% of GDP is turned away and the public or state institutions do not know what the question is whether or not we want to regulate it, to stay as it is today and to have no public publication. I have to say that here where they sought public publication means many were actually and at that debate there was, when this debate was opened that took a long time, a public publication of that data was required, you will decide in this House whether it should go public or not. What is another question here that is likely to open today is whether a non-profit organisation that carries out a part of economic activity and over 230 thousand kunas should be established or not by a company. We have been guided, we have been guided by the fact that this is a practice known to many European countries and that these thresholds depend on the country to the ground. So in some countries like the Czech Republic, Slovakia, you have a much lower threshold. We are here saying that at VAT level, what we have said is whether you are inside or not within the VAT system, so about 30,000 and 600 euros is that threshold because if you leave economic activity, then you have to start a company. In other countries there are 8 thousand euros, 9,000 euros, even in one Germany there are 30,000 euros, so you carry out a non-profit economic activity that you have to start a company, here I must immediately say that there are certain doubts among us whether to start or not a company, especially if you have entered the profit tax system and the VAT system. I have to say to myself personally that we can really open up here if you're in the VAT system and in the profit tax system that you can talk about whether or not it's necessary to start a company. And I'm opening it here today as one question, whether to go or not to start that part of the company. What is also in this work becomes interesting is that a number of laws such as the Law on the Protection of Competition tell us that one who carries out economic activity that all must be equal on the market. So, other laws tell you that you must be an entrepreneur, he was an entrepreneur who carries out economic activity for profit or someone who is non-profit but enters the area of economic activity and is a direct competitor that this all transactions he conducts are carried out by the untaxable and the entrepreneur who performs and the transactions to tax them. So in this area, and this part means not only a formal act, is it a limit of 230 thousand kuna where you enter a VAT system or not, where the border is crossed, or is it a fair match response to those entrepreneurs who have decided to engage in this one activity and on the other hand through certain non-profit organisations, and this is not about the catering business, I don't know the hairdressing salon or any such activities that are marketable, which are commercial to actually compete with them in that way where the freedoms of the market don't know whether they are good and set up. I believe that today we will hear these answers to those questions of yours today and see if it is the right or the right solution. This is the first reading of this, first and foremost in this way I think we're opening up an area of whether this part of the business of non-profit organisations and you've heard the figures, whether to regulate it, whether to weaken it in some parts. I hope that through this debate and you know that at least I personally follow what you're saying and that all your remarks are recorded and everything that is constructive that we accept, so here today I expect a really constructive debate and that if any remarks that are really in favor of and better business to make them, that we will respect them and accept them until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73426	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Now we're going to the replica set, the esteemed representative of Damir Kai's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73427	Everything out there, everything has to be public, taxes have to pay and associations mostly in the VAT area, that's certainly 2 billion kuna, so there's nothing to play with. When we talk about non-profit organisations, there are churches, there's the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, there's football, there's an employer's association, there's unions, there's red cross, there's tourist communities, there's minority associations that are corrupt by local self-government or state, and we see that they've all joined together that the data is simply not published or that reports are kept secret. All churches together, 194 religious communities, employers and labour unions, are all here together, all on the same matrix, just to give no insight into the resources they have. I even dare say that this law is more incomparably important than the Labour Act. You said Mr. Deputy, income is 4.5 billion kuna, but through the account of the association gardens and untaxed 13.6 billion kuna. You said 4% of GDP, where is 9 billion kuna, where does that 9 billion kuna end? The association means, and all without a church, the organizations without a church have 800 million kunas in cash accounts, have 400 million kunas in hand, have 120 million kunas in stock I repeat, it's about 10% of the budget of the Republic of Croatia without money that controls the church, 10% of the budget of the girls, 10% of the budget is in one grey zone, 10% of the budget, but the money that has the budget is out of control. Introduce order and a lot of this kidnapping and finally end, the 13.6 billion kuna, it is an entire Croatian deficit and the public must know where the nine billion kuna ends and that matter should be regulated once.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73428	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73429	Dear Mr. Lalovac, when we got these devices, I thought it would be, for the... translation I thought there would be a word about the budget, that Mr. Linic would be visiting so that someone... translates what he's saying, so we're talking about finances in Croatia today. I fully agree that non-profit organisations should be regulated, their actions. But all these numbers that you said today, they're impressive, it's an incredibly large amount of money that's spinning, a lot of money in accounts. However, I'd be happier if you said at least by the activities of how much money is in sports, how much money is in football? What you said was very positive from you when you said, I hesitate, I think, so yes, I'm thinking about it. Should those non-profit organisations that make up more than 230 thousand kuna form companies? That certainly doesn't have a single answer, that's good or that's bad. It's good to make the order, but it's good to distinguish non-profit organisations, which are really non-profit organisations from non-profit organisations that have entered that area just to make a hole, just to rob society, just to make it easier to do business. There's a lot of mutilation here, and there's a lot of mutilation to separate from that clear water, and that's what I'm going to talk about on behalf of the club, the way it should be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73430	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73431	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister, you said that finding is simply not true. You said 13 billion kunas in Croatia were untaxable. It's simply not true, any payment that pulls the income tax bill is charged with income tax. Also, since all these non-profit organisations are not in the VAT system, therefore any service and any VAT purchased is purchased, in fact, every service and every product is bought with VAT and therefore VAT is paid. And what is crucial here, and that is this article 33, is the Law on profit tax and how much and whether or not a profit tax should be paid. It is not good because of the Croatian public, and you heard, here are two replicas to serve the data that 13 billion cars in Croatia are untaxable. That's just not true. That's not true because you can't, if you said you had 800 and some other employees in those non-profit organisations, then you said here on behalf of the Ministry of Finance that these people don't get paid contributions and don't pay income taxes. That's just not true. The other thing is, it's not true that it can't be controlled. Wherever there is an obligation to pay income tax and to pay value added tax, the tax administration by difolt has the right to control it. So let's not deal with facts that simply don't stand. If we have the knowledge that someone pays the salary or pays some fees, the tax administration can go into the control of income tax returns. The other thing, from the budget, Mr. Deputy, is no donations. You have a local self-government unit program to meet common needs in culture and sport, and that's precisely defined by the position in the budget, and that's how, come on in the slang, talking donation, but no donation. The law accurately provides for a donation and even a tax-defined donation. Therefore, we are talking about an extremely sensitive subject, both colleagues and colleagues, and we must be very careful how we deal with expressions because we will send it ourselves. Just one more sentence, please. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Many of you are related to certain associations and many of you will find yourself in trouble if we deal with incorrect information and incorrect...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73432	Thank you. The reply to the replica, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73433	Thank you, Mr. President. Related grants, donations, according to the Ministry of Finance's economic classification, it's called a donation, and according to all the reports they're called and in the budget it's called a donation. As far as terminology is concerned, what I said untaxablely, I agree with your part, you have to pay taxes and contributions when you're looking, maybe I should say you don't pay taxes on profits. Here, my correction to termology, is this part where the tax on profit counts, is that the system in that part, but this part is definitely called donation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73434	Thank you, too. It's a good debate. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73435	Thank you very much. Mr. Lalovac, you said the average salary is employees of these organizations, associations of 7 and a half thousand kuna. The average salary in Croatia is 5 and a half thousand kuna. That's the important difference between, well gross. Mr. Lalovac didn't say if it was gross or net, so I don't know. He didn't say. Furthermore, when we talk about a total amount of $13.6 billion for 25 400 associations, I'm interested in whether there's any information in this, in the business of these other 26 thousand associations, organizations, therefore non-profits, for which you, in the tax administration of the Ministry of Finance, have no information? How they do business and how big it is, and is there any kind of money trade there? So you have information at the Ministry of Finance for 25 400 organizations and associations, and the Ministry of Administration has registered 52 thousand organizations and associations. What about those 26 thousand others?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73436	Replication response, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73437	Thank you. Well, yeah, I told you the difference between what's registered in the register of associations through the Ministry of Administration and that's true. So that's where we have to work on taking care of the register. What appears to have been handed over is most likely active and they are doing business. For this difference are our assumptions that this is about inactive associations and that is what we need to see in which way we go in the process of eradicating or liquidating these associations. As you know under the Law on the Court Register, Article 70. The law on the court register when we talk about companies that have not delivered financial reports for three years to the FINAs, they are deleted from the court register. Are we going to add something similar to that in this law, so we're going to tell those organizations that don't deliver, they're not regular, they don't want to deliver financial reports, do you want to delete them from the register? That's what I expect from you through this debate to confirm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73438	Thank you too, Deputy. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73439	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Minister, I've come forward with the intention of being constructive. I also noticed these allegations of yours where you were talking about all the money that's going around and in some way that you might get the impression of how it's done, we've heard some thinking about some kind of blurry business. You were talking about 4% without knowing what the associations were doing. And I'll explain to you what they're doing in those areas where I know. They're very concerned about the fire that the National Fire Strategy doesn't have, they care, and you know what it means to be in a rural area to protect when there's a fire in my middle 25km from the fire department if he doesn't react himself it's a disaster. They care about the fundamental values of cultural art society which are the basis of our identity, care about sports life of course in rural areas etc. improving the quality of life. In today’s circumstances, when the quality of life in rural areas fell to the lowest branches of such an association caring about it and barely making ends meet. They work very well. I have 34 of them in my municipality and in our county doing extremely well and raising the quality of life and I think praise is worth it and I'm proud of them. That way you have to think, and not now it's some gray zone, it's some of them that do things like this, and they don't. So that's how I want to think keep that in mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73440	The reply to the replica, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73441	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I have to say that I agree with you and that I support you in that part of it, because I also think that most of the associations that do that part of the job have their real function and that they do it. And these are all you've listed, my personal opinion that most of them do. And it wasn't a speech, it was just a speech, and the public knows that you know in this House because it's a means of whether you want to publish it, not to publish it, whether we want to control it, not control it. And most of these, unfortunately, associations you mentioned, I'm personally convinced they don't have much resources, that they lack funds. But that's why we want to see who manages the means and that those who bring good to this society to reroute those funds to them. And you yourself will say whether the public has the right to know who you are and who you say these are to whom you say they are good and human and that they should be allocated these funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73442	Let me qualify this situation as a new contribution to parliamentaryism. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73443	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. A respected colleague of what is one of the most important facts that you have presented in your opening speech, and I don't think that the colleagues in the replicas have absorbed, which is that the associations are involved at this point and 292 tourist communities, 194 religious, 132 trusts that we are actually getting, have been directed in the wrong direction one part of the debate. So most associations are 50% unemployed at all, most associations work really volunteering, most associations, not exactly 20% of the associations, which is according to a survey by the Civil Society Organization in the Republic of Croatia, gathering more than 50 volunteers, and that most associations are the ones that make and non-profit organisations, and that is the majority of associations that compete for social European funds. And here we have a problem, and that is that these non-profit organisations include those and foundations and tourist communities that, realistically, should not belong if we talk about civil society in a certain way. And then we get into a mess with large numbers, large amounts, etc. So we are all also aware that sports associations work in a completely different way than these volunteer, non-profit associations from cultural associations, from civil society associations, from human rights organisations and social associations. And that is then a distinction that we must find in these discussions until the second reading to separate these associations from truly non-profit volunteers to say so from those who are profitable and let alone tourist communities and foundations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73444	The reply to the replica, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73445	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thanks for asking. So once again to clarify the introductory figures, when we talked about what you said about tourist communities, economic chambers are not associations and these figures of 4.5 billion kuna revenue. We're talking about non-profit organizations that enter non-profit organizations. In 4.5 billion organizations... we're talking about associations. If you've seen my income analysis 12.7 billion down for these three non-profits, that's 9.2 billion revenue. From 9.2 to 4.5 that part of the income covers what you said, tourist communities, economic chambers and this part of non-profit organisations. I only looked back at associations, and what I was saying was numbers I was only talking about associations. So the difference between 4.5 billion revenue and 9.2 billion is what you said. Tourist communities, foundations, institutions, means all part of the rest of the non-profit organisations. And for the next debate, I agree in the bill itself and additional analysis to further clarify these differences between non-profits and associations themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73446	Honorable representative Kresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73447	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Lalovac, you must know what you want and one is volunteerism, the other is professionalism. NGOs are not d.o.o., therefore, the effects of a certain law and what is desired are always important. If it is stressed by Minister Jovanovic that this is Mamic's law, then he should have changed the Law on Sports, not punished associations. We have hundreds of associations in the Republic of Croatia that have received more than 5 million kuna. It should be distinguished what is an NGO, and what is d.o.o., there can be no competition in that part and that part should be thrown out. But we haven't heard today how much it takes to be the effects on the state budget on this law, how much VAT is paid by the associations, how much income tax is paid by the associations, and how many profit taxes are not paid and what do you expect from this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73448	Replication response, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73449	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I appreciate the question. As we have been mentioned here, so far we have had the regulation, this is the law, so this is a step forward in regulating that part of the financial business. When it comes to the effects, the tax effects, it is not the primary objective of this law to have a fiscal impact. The primary objective of this law is to set clear rules because many of our associations will now apply to EU funds. In applying to EU funds, such a model of financial supervision, governance, procedures, regulatory conditions is one of the conditions that you can access at all, that you can even activate funds from the European Union. Because there are normative frameworks and there is such a way of doing business, so we should have passed this law before, because we are already in the European Union, so this is the primary law. The regulatory way, this law will not determine who will pay for it, but that there are rules, that when something is done that everything is in accordance with the statutes, with procedures, with those parts. So that's the primary objective of this law, not the fiscal impact on the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73450	Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, the committees want to present a report on this matter, the bill? They don't want to. Before I open the hearing, one notice. Today at 15.20 pm in the Croatian Parliament, you will have representatives here in the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public talking to Nj. E. President of the Senate of the Republic of France Jean-Pierre Bell. This is also the answer from fellow Vuksic that the simultaneous translation technique will be used for the right purposes, and those who do not hear and do not know do not need a technique. I ask the representatives to come here as much as possible and thus show their attitude towards the Croatian public and the guest. And now I'm opening a debate on a draft law that's on the agenda. We are going to debate the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists and the Honorable Representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73451	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As far as these devices are concerned, they often say to me and the party that I should, they don't understand me, that I need a simultaneous translation, so to speak. This is, I don't agree with Mr. Caine often, most of the time, that this law is more important than the Labour Act, I think it's all more important now than the Labour Law. Workers and the Labour Act are not important at all. This is a very sensitive law and I completely agree and I think the President of the Parliament has intervened that we should speak very carefully about this law. Which is why, so that this debate wouldn't be a witch hunt, that we wouldn't make all those hardworking people look like thieves, so we wouldn't put all the nonprofit organizations in a gray zone. I'm sure most of them, the great majority, are doing great. I have one remark on Mr. Lalovec, he brought it in his pocket like this, secretly took the paper out and read us some data. Why isn't that in the assessment of the situation, why the council representatives don't get the information before they can get ready, so they can discuss it, and as a result, you've just got something, I read it quickly, and then we catch up in benches like students to see how much someone's got. That's by the way, all of these states are pro-forms, prescribed. Look at the laws of old, they're almost old laws. This is a disrespect for the Parliament. The MPs must have the information and classify it in order to be able to discuss it competently. We're not all financial experts here. I understand the intention of this law, to put an end to it, first of all, we know why, someone has mentioned the name of this Mamic law before, to end football mechanics and other mechanics. But the question is whether we did it right, if we're doing it the right way. We need to put an end to those who, not for the sake of kindness, but because of the haughtiness of 500 euros on the head of musicians and who spend money, don't know where, don't have big incomes, have billions, they need to be put to rest. But there will be greater damage if this law, which is all happiness in the first reading, so I guess our debates will be appreciated, if all of them are choked or all those who do the honorable work resort to the pillar of shame. However, it seems to me that this law is now written, and the intensity is clear does not distinguish the building of the CK from the cathedral. So, the building of the Central Committee of the Cathedral, we've all been placed in the same basket. All those who receive public money, who receive whatever it is called donations, who receive money from tax payers, they must file accounts. They should subscribe to the public reports on what they spend that money on, because that money has been received partly or entirely from the pockets of citizens who are increasingly poor. As I said in the replica to Mr. Lalovec, it would be good to know how many of these huge billions are in whose accounts the money is. We've only heard the data on how much public money is obtained, somewhere a billion and 200 million kunas to win. But that would be, quite certain, that it can be made to classify who is given and who gives and for what purposes. The legislator uses small fish to lure him to catch large fish, and let the small fish support them, let them eat these big fish, let them die in the process in which they are. The most dangerous law, this law is for unions right now. So it's for unions that get stuck in the same basket with all the organizations. This does not mean that it is not dangerous for other organisations, non-profit organisations, civil society organisations. Now imagine you're saying everyone needs to give, they need to publicize reports. The unions need to subscribe reports to how much money they have. Is the legislator how trade unions are founded, whose trade unions and whose money the trade unions have, with trade unions also obliged to subscribe various reports and are still in control of the system today. So the union at the end of the year, either three months or whatever it takes to give the account state and then strike and then the employer says ok. We won't give in, I see the union has 56 kuna on the bill. So he's got all the information that doesn't concern him. Trade unions are established voluntarily, membership is voluntary and the state is not helping unions, not giving them money. But he's asking to do me a favor, and you're denying me to the employers at all times to know how many unions there are. Second, they're state unions, say, unions on railways that the state pays for. Once again, we need to distinguish one union from another union. I can see Mr. Novak laughing ironically at me, but that's how it is. There are those trade unions that are professionalized, and they're professionalized in a way that gets money from public companies. So, and many charters, many international decisions oblige us to treat unions differently. Is that one way to deal with unions because they're insubordination because they don't want to negotiate the Labour Act? I don't know, or it just happened to be put under the same tent. I'm sure it's good to see the register of non-profit organizations, see how many of these organizations there are. There are much less in the neighbouring country in Bosnia and Herzegovina that are spent on, say, how much they get from non-profit organisations so much is invested in the country's economy. There are 800 unemployed there, and there are 26, 27000. We're far better than our neighbors. The big problem is that Mr. Lalovec spoke in his presentation and he himself was in doubt. I hope that Mr. Linic is in doubt too, that it is the ministry, that it is not only his personal opinion, and that is whether those non-profit organisations that are above 230 000 kunas of business activities need to form a company. It is also necessary to look at European practice, but also to respect the specificities of the Republic of Croatia and non-profit organisations. What about if all non-profit organisations have to act on the same principle then we have done nothing, then because of Dinam, Mamic or I don't know which clubs we've suffocating everyone else. I'll ask Mr. Deputy Minister what about safe houses? We'll do them too, and now we'll push them into the gray zone, because they're in the gray zone, too. There are certainly hundreds of non-profit organizations that should not be subject to this law. This law will be good, so it's just been roughed up three times, not only for the second time, only if it makes a difference, if really those who hunt in blurry, who are rich in non-profit organisations separate from those who sincerely do their jobs, do work on the welfare of society. And that is one of the basic tasks of non-profit organisations. I talked to one of my fellow journalists who got fired and who's so old that no one wants to hire her over 55 anymore, wants to do something until retirement and I asked her how you survive well? She says I started a nonprofit association and I do business through it. That's how people manage. That doesn't mean she's a criminal, she just doesn't have any other ways of doing it. He's got a family of his own, he's got people to feed and he doesn't have enough years to retire. And of the vast number of nonprofit organizations, there are many that have been established so that some people can get paid and survive. This is all a Croatian reality in front of which we do not need to hide. It is absolutely certain that all those remarks that came to the Ministry of Finance in the public debate should be respected, and it sent a nice large analysis of GONG, which is one of the most active, important civil society associations that operates on the well-being of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So, at the very end, I ask the Ministers that after this debate you respect everything the parliamentary representatives have said, analyze, talk to civil society associations, talk to representatives of non-profit organisations, that this law does not turn into a witch hunt. That the large large fish that hunt in the mud do not suffer the vast majority of those who do their job well and without whom this country would look far more miserable than it looks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73452	Thank you too, dear colleague. We've reported 11 replicas, so we'll do it in a row. Honorable representative Damir Cain, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73453	So I said, Mr. Representative, that in the same position, I may have misrepresented myself before, when it comes to this law, employers and trade unions found themselves. And that's why I said that I have the impression that for the same law, it's important to them or that this law is more important than the ZOR. This is finally about 4.5 billion kuna. When we look at what money is going through associations, 13.6 billion kuna, if we add here as much as 190 religious communities, then we see that this is about 17 maybe several billion kunas. That's what I wanted to say. I personally believe that an association that spins over 30600 euros is that threshold for entering VAT must operate as a company. The VAT should be paid, the profit should be paid and it must not be in a more favourable position than anyone on the market if it has any market character. We all have to be in the same position. We've heard before that they employ over 9,000 workers, 867 million kunas are salaries, the average salary gross, I didn't say it was large, 7400 kunas. Once again, I will say the gardens of 13.6 billion kuna without the church's income. Where's the difference between nine billion kunas? And now does the public need to know about that money or not? Does the public need to know how much income the association generates or not? And that there are hundreds of organizations that volunteer, that do business without any kuna profit. And they just drop down because one society without their engagement can't be imagined.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73454	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73455	Mr. Caine, do you know how much the safe house in Pula spends money? Did she spend... In Istria, I'm sorry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Does he spend more than 230 thousand kuna? If the safe house is registered as a company, if it has any business activity, it should also be given to the OIB. So we know what the address is right now. So we can't put everything in the same basket. However, it bothers you that employers and trade unions are in the same basket. And why shouldn't employers be organised in the same way? What are they not legal organisations that act on the principles set out in this Republic of Croatia? They need to be controlled, too. But when it's quite safe if they're organized on a voluntary basis, it's quite one way to control them, and if they're organized as they are now organized, and that's that everyone who has a registered company has to give some pink, let's say to HGK that control should be stricter and be known to the public how they operate and how they spend the money that the state has told them they have to give, and not that they have to volunteer, when they're going to team up voluntarily. So there are no entities here that work the same way and in which the law applies in the same way. However, let us not be seduced by the fact that everything that is more than 230 thousand kunas that everything should be a commercial society and that everything should be public knowledge, the state must know but not the public. The state certainly has to control it, but now that would mean there are no control mechanisms, and now there are control mechanisms and if we wanted to control, we could control it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73456	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Goran Beus Richembergh. Here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73457	Comrade Vuksic, I must admit that I am sorry that the debate is going in a very unpredictable way in a very wrong direction and that you are trying to correct it too. The proposer of this law does not understand at all the differences between the concepts of a non-profit organisation, a non-profit association, a non-governmental organisation, a civil sector. As if you've never heard of social entrepreneurship, that there are non-profit companies, so have we come to Croatia after 2002 that extremely historically important agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the NGO, 12 years after that still read the wrong concepts. Secondly, what is the definition of a non-profit organization? Is it an organisation that does not generate more than revenue on expenditure or is an organisation that, if it does so, does not share it with either members or founders but invests in the development of its own core activity. Furthermore, if order is to be introduced, we have the Law on the System of Tourist Communities, the Law on Sports, the Law on Foundations and Foundations, we have a whole series of regulations where this can and should be solved. Furthermore, we are horrifying at the 4.5 billion kuna of income. So do you know how much social capital there is in these associations, in this NGO sector, I ask you, do you know how much an hour of therapy riding costs, how much an hour of working with children in a reconnaissance camp, what is an hour's work of a top music educator? Is that how we're gonna measure it? I'm also asking you why you're pulling out the lease and rent story? Well, it's purely economic activity, so someone who can earn 5 million kuna a year from this activity doesn't have to go into establishing anything or pay a special profit tax and someone who's bloody working to make money from a non-profit and non-professional volunteer system to invest it further and from one kuna he created three he enters these scissors, much is not clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73458	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73459	Yes, you're right, Mr. Beus, and here's the bench on my left, yelling and I agree with them. Mr Lalovac did not calculate how much, that is, how much social capital it is, he did not calculate how many companies received from these non-profit organisations, the activity of these non-profit organisations, how much they got by doing a job that doesn't work by the state, that these non-profit organisations care about many citizens, that these non-profit organisations act and mitigate all this suffering of citizens who are very large. No one has calculated this, so again, let's not make a classic witch hunt, let's tell the difference between those who hunt in the cloudy, those who get rich, those who show the country a long nose, who play the state, in front of the state, let's not because of a few individuals, a few classical meat organizations that belong to or under associations, what Mr. Beus was saying, we need to distinguish social entrepreneurship, the civil sector, or the government sector, we need to distinguish non-profit organisations, which is why they are created, what they are doing, and there are dozens of laws that can very much contribute that this country is starting to function really as a legal state.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73460	Dear Representative Ivan Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73461	I'm glad that the debate is going in the right direction with some deviations and I would quote the old Latin saying "Qui Bene di arrive bene docet", who knows how to distinguish both conceptually and truly the reality of this best learns. I think that's where Mr. Vuksic moved the discussion in the right sense, not to be a witch hunt, but there is certainly a gray zone in this area that needs to be arranged honestly, consistently, transparently and responsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73462	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73463	Dear colleague Grubisic, you have briefly replicated, I will respond even shorter, I fully agree. It is necessary to specify exactly what a gray zone is, to sort out the situation in that gray zone, to say clearly and publicly that professional sports clubs that earn a lot of money can be non-profit organisations because they are not non-profit organisations, especially because they do not invest in the development of these organisations because we know well how this money is shared and even those who work in them cannot explain their wealth. And it's true, you need to know how to distinguish reality. We often don't know how to distinguish reality, and it's these figures that Mr. Lalovca has compelled us to do so that they're not clear, they're shadowing reality, they're not clear who's doing what they're doing and who's doing it with such big money.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73464	Honorable representative Igor Radjenovic is a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73465	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Vuksic, trust is good, control is sometimes even better. This is not the only law that has actually caused a lot of resistance and I agree with you in this section that we need to regulate that gray zone, but the subject of this law is this very gray zone on the subject of possible economic business, i.e.. taking part in the responsibility of this humanitarian section, etc. And I think we missed in the good part, actually the direction we should go. This area was regulated, the Ministry of Finance estimated that it could and must be regulated even better. You mentioned churches, cathedrals, from this base receive their incomes and churches and cathedrals and parties and so on. And we don't put them in the same basket, but the opposite. So the purpose of this law is to protect the competition, so protecting that someone under an important or closed profile, here's this time of masquerade that's just closing, doing real economic activity and making some income, and we have no control over it. And there are limits that stand there, and Articles 9 and 33, they separate them on that line of 230 thousand where things get much stricter and stronger around economic activity and we need to see about it. I agree with some of my colleagues about the lease, about the lease, the question is why we threw it out, we can see because there can obviously be some manipulation, but it's good that the law goes in two readings, to consider everything, although I say I wouldn't want it to go the wrong way and to talk about all these positive aspects of the work of the associations, etc. Here we talk exclusively about financial business and all of you in your discussions and mention sometimes negative examples. Let's put things in the light of day, publish those reports, and we'll see what they are, which aren't negative examples. I don't know if you're aware of the example of this colleague of yours who unfortunately lost his job, you've just proven that this law should be passed, if she works as a non-profit organisation, then she's breaking an equal competition against someone who does the same activity and pays all taxes and contributions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73466	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73467	Yeah, I'll start from your end. First of all, a colleague doesn't break any laws, because she doesn't take profits, because she's employed and she's still hired people, which means she doesn't get money out in a legal way. Another thing, if you can control the parties, and they're perfectly controlled and they need to be controlled for what they spend money on, then everything else can be controlled. And it is not true that today's legislation did not allow for control. I agree with you that you need more control in other sectors. What I used is a syntagma, you don't distinguish the central committee from the cathedral, I didn't mean literally, absolutely certainly not, but if the church gets public money and it needs to be controlled where that money is and what that money is spent on. It can't be without control just because it's a religious organization. By knowing that churches are the richest, not only in Croatia, but in the world. And surely the believers will have no objection to knowing where the money they pay by various taxes is spent. Yeah, it's got to be different, I was talking about it, it's got to be different, you didn't make a reference, it'd be good if someone from the ruling coalition referred to exactly what I was saying about unions. Do unions need to make public reports on what they spend their money on? By having to know the difference in how trade unions are founded, how they are financed, and which means public disclosure of their balance. This does not mean that the state does not need to know, but I am against public publication that trade unions publicly publish their financial reports because it is exactly the opposite of all orders of international union association.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73468	Thank you very much. Dear fellow MP Kresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73469	Thank you very much. My colleague Vukšić, you mentioned Mamic's law several times, this is not Mamic's law, but the proposal of the Law on Financial Business and Accounting of Non-profit Organisations. In fact, if Mamic hadn't paid his taxes, he'd be in jail for sure. Often he saw a lot of players selling, it's only important in tax solutions whether one like him can be taxed more or not, but this can't be Mamic's law or we need to make laws according to one person.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73470	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73471	In the Croatian Parliament, right after we convened the Parliament, I mean the first day or at the second session, you know well that we called, called the opposition, the law by one of the former ministers, and it is still called today, as far as local self-government is concerned, as you well know. It's called Mamic's Law, we don't call it us, now you've read it, I'll take the same thing so I can read the proposal of the Financial Business Act and the accounting of a non-profit organization that belongs to Dinamo, and that's a shame for this country. That they include professional clubs that run such money, where crime is going on, and you know it, where they didn't pay taxes, where billions of dollars are being paid, and that the state doesn't smell a bit of it. If you advocate it, I strongly oppose it, and I will be strongly opposed to the fact that the organizations in which money is shared in various ways that are illegal ways of pay, buy cars, which I know, have read in the media what is done, otherwise I don't know because I wasn't in those football clubs, that they belong, are in the same basket with trade unions or with GONG or with some other non-profit organization. It certainly isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73472	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73473	Thank you very much. Comrade Vuksic, you mentioned numerous organizations. Namely, one who doesn't pay taxes or goes to a pre-determined settlement because he can't pay or goes to jail. But Mr. Mamic was never one day, except for the insult of Mr. Jovanovic when he was in the interview. Therefore, I would not like to ask Mr. Mamic, we should also know here when Mr. Lalovac already has all the data, how much did Mamic pay taxes to the state of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance? Furthermore, when you were talking about unions, so I don't know why union membership wouldn't be familiar with the financial situation of that union? In the doctor's office, we have the Croatian Medical Assembly, and we have the Croatian Medical Chamber. We have the Doctor's Union, so they're all non-profit organizations. And I personally asked through the Croatian medical chamber for their incomes annually, but I will get a further report on this. When you're talking about the church then there's a replica here for your talk about the competition, and who was that church supposed to go to the competition with? Between each other to compete or whatever you think it is, a game of competition and the church entering a competition. I don't know, I don't get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73474	We have a reply to the replica, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73475	No, I wasn't talking about the game, I don't think the church should go to the competition. But you don't really understand the purpose of the union. You say why membership, so membership knows, you know what a public announcement is, and what it is that an organisation that is on a voluntary basis organised and whose members pay membership fees because they want to pay membership fees they can know, but these others are not concerned except that they have to do business under the laws of the Republic of Croatia. Second thing, don't put what I didn't say in my mouth. I didn't say Mr. Mamic didn't pay taxes, I said the way clubs work. But it's not just about paying taxes, it's about what's claimed, I'm not the first one to say that professional clubs can't be non-profit organisations. No, I'm not saying it's a shame that football is professional in clubs where a lot of this money is spinning, that they're non-profit organizations. And you know for a fact that it's not and that in various ways, remember how footballers were getting paid, it got out, and now there's a trial going on. This should be prevented, and none of these are impugned by any person, each person should, if suspected, report and prosecuted and the court will say whether she is guilty or not, so is Mr. Mamic. And to call Mommy the law, they call.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73476	Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73477	Thank you. My colleague Vuksic, in principle, agreed on the union that the union that income is being generated by its members and that if it is not achieved by the state that it should not publicly publicise its revenues. But what we disagree on about the union is the the thesis that members of the union know about the business of the union. I, as a general rule, have no idea about the business of the union or the unions about it as a rule report their membership. The second thing, when you mentioned Dinamo, maybe it's just a matter of focusing simply on us Dinamo in Slavonia is not in some focus, and you're doing a lot more work with Dinam and Mamic and everyone else, and this topic has simply been chewing on for years and maybe that's why there's been a misunderstanding. And the third thing, when it comes to non-profit organisations and the like, so whether these chambers are, what kind of chambers are non-profit organisations. So let's look at the city budgets, look at the municipality budgets, look at the county budget, and let's face the fact that politics in many levels is actually the one of... with a variety of so-called. non-profit associations, NGOs and similar organisations, and that there are many unhealthy interactions, that it is a huge parafiscal separation where, in part, semi-legal ways, very unhealthy relationships are financed at both the municipalities and cities and the county and the state itself. And that more Croatian citizens and Croatian states cannot afford such luxury that billions of kunas per year are taken and poured into very strange relationships that have been established at all levels between so-called Croatian citizens. NGOs and levels of government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73478	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73479	Mr. Djurovic and I agree almost everything except in one piece about the union. I lead an opportunity or thank God a union debate every day at home, and I know how unions work. Union membership knows how unions operate if it wants to know, and unfortunately the situation in the Republic of Croatia is becoming less and less unions because even workers don't have enough money to pay union membership, which is not good because unions are the need of this society. I agree with you about chambers completely, and especially when we saw what HGK spent money on, especially when we saw how much support these chambers actually had, these chamber leaders how much support they had from their membership, although they resisted the finger that these chambers operate in a very suspicious way. The state needs to control the flow of money and it is not difficult if the state wants to do so under the current laws. However, we are very inclined for one reason, and here I agree with you because of Dinam, I am not even a football fan at all, so Dinamo may only be one of the synonyms, perhaps some chambers are better synonyms for not saying blurry than for example that some organisations that are not non-profit, may not be in the same basket, which I agree with you again, that the chambers were certainly a lot of non-transparent business, and that they do not fit in the same basket with many others especially the civil sector in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73480	Dear Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73481	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. A respected colleague of yours is for the rule of law, so that everything is publicly transparent, of course the religious communities have to publish it all, and only the unions do. So at the time when we from a law on non-profit organisations, in which we have clearly defined that these are associations and foundations and tourist communities, etc., etc. Let's single out only one segment, we can't actually debate and enforce this law, because it's going to happen that the unions are going to start all of a sudden because it's a Croatian practice. Which is why someone who works transparently would not publicly publish data such as the data of all of us here public and transparent, such as all institutions and states and local self-government and the public sector are absolutely transparent and open. In this way we get that key role, which is to reduce the possibility and the use of funds in a non-transparent way and that is the goal, to prevent or expose all those who abuse non-profit legal status for business purposes and thus prevent at all the possibility through this transparency and the public from happening any anomalies. All those who do well and represent their incomes and spend transparently, what they have to fear. They can only point out that they are public and that they are transparent. And what is related to all non-profit organisations, and especially associations, is important to work on projects and work transparently. 4 billion if spent, said my colleague Beus, especially I'm talking about that social character, especially I'm talking about disabled people, which is something that's good to invest because that means we've developed this civil society and non-profit associations because we've made it possible for volunteers to work there. Let's not talk about associations negatively.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73482	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73483	I don't think you made it possible, people fought for what they had, you didn't give anything. You would probably be the happiest if the unions were banned or if the union leaders in the HNS joined. First of all, Mr Gjurkovic, you don't know the principle of organization and you don't know the difference between the church and the union, so I repeat, you need to distinguish the CK from the church. There's a difference. The unions, I repeat, I'll bring a plate, they don't get money from the state, the church gets some money from the state. Trade unions are voluntarily organised on a voluntary basis, trade unions live on the membership of their members and they submit reports about their business, but they are not public. That's a very big difference. Therefore, those who spend public money need to publicly publish information on what they spend. Secondly, a series of international declarations are just preventing trade unions, if you don't understand why, because the employer must not know how strong the union is money, how much he can support his members, how much he can pay from his often helpful strike funds, at the time of the strikes, helping his workers. This must not be public and will not be public because the Republic of Croatia will be exposed to sanctions and lawsuits in international courts, which clearly the trade unions have said if the Ministry of Finance does not differ then let it not deal with a business that does not know.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73484	Dear Representative Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73485	Thank you very much. Comrade Vuksic, I would agree that we should not fall into the trap at the flat-rate grades, but I think we have already fallen into the trap. Out of so many thousands of organizations you have concentrated individually, and the only church you have in mind is always on your mind. Isn't that a trap already? As not all politicians are amoral, not all priests are moral, as not all employers are dishonest, and not all workers are fair, such as not all associations are irresponsible but not all nor responsible and there is a need for a subtle approach. It is necessary to observe with several levels of what the association is dealing with, which is its social role, whose interests are being promoted, whether it is financed from the state budget or not, whether it is already possible in the profit tax system or not. For example, is it a good solution that a scientific and professional association that is already in the profit tax system must form a company and director to deal with the scientific and professional promotion of... profession. It's devastating and it's harmful. But already what the government has suggested in the second reading of this law which is necessary and which should go into the second reading is good and it is good to hear all the ideas here and to respect as many suggestions as possible and I am sure that something that is reasonable that will have to be accepted because this is such an important law. And what's missing from this law at first sight, who can't be an association, and that's the most important thing, who can't be a nonprofit in any case, and we have cases like that. The information on concessions is not public, and it must be public data that has nothing to do with the state budget and the public money. It's an absurd that we can't accept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73486	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73487	I'll start at the end, dear colleague Maric. I agree, it should stand in a law that must not be a nonprofit organization or an association, so it should stand. That's exactly what I was talking about when I apostrophed some... who may be doing the most legitimate, the most legal, but they're running by the wrong laws because they belong where they shouldn't belong. It bothers you that I mentioned the church several times, I mentioned it in replicas, I don't mind, why. I think the church has a role to play in society and I agree with you that most priests are honest, certainly a large majority. I agree, and I don't know if the church is operating legally or illegally, I'm just saying that the church must also be controlled in the part where it gets money from the state budget. You need to know what he's spending his money for. It's public money. You yourself said that it is necessary to distinguish those associations financed from the state budget and associations not financed from the state budget, associations financed from their own contributions that are on a voluntary basis, but also have to operate by law, they must submit their reports. But what colleagues don't understand before or don't want to understand, the second is a public report that is given just as we apostrophe the unions. I didn't apostrophe by negative connotations, as the church in that context doesn't. This is what I'm talking about when we talk about the syntagma of the Central Committee and the Church. I'm just saying that there's no distinction in terms. So if it bothers you then I won't use it anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73488	Thank you very much. Two colleagues pulled the line, so we will continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the HDSSB's Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Krešimir Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73489	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Lalovac, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, we have before us a proposal for a law on financial business and accounting of non-profit organisations, first reading. I believe we're going to grind it up to the other one, because here's the debate sharpened, and I think that's good because it's important for this law. We also care about the non-governmental sector, but also when we see the figures spinning in associations. That's 12 billion 700 million kuna. Surely the number is large, the number is really significant. But a lot of people do and do their part of the work in those associations. What are associations and how are they founded? The Association shall be any form of free and voluntary association of several natural persons, i.e. legal persons who are to protect their breakthroughs or take possession of general interests and without the intention of obtaining profits, subject to the rules governing the formation and operation of that form of association. The association can be founded by three persons, and just looking at this proposal for a legal solution is always an important goal and what are the effects of a certain legal solution. I wish we'd heard a little bit more about the goals at first, a little bit more about the effects. But also in the debate, it is also important to underline the significant contribution of the very association of development and the Republic of Croatia, the civil sector, as well as the attracting of funds from European funds. What is important to say at the beginning is that at the end of the year, all associations must purposely justify whether they have spent, delivered reports, and that is what is important just to justify the funds at the end of the year. What should be commended to the associations is volunteerism. You need to separate volunteerism from professionalism, you need to separate it from sports clubs, you need to separate professionalism from those small clubs that barely survive or associations that we mentioned sport today, but it's a culture, all segments of social life are important, and that's what associations do. Just listening to the number of 50901 associations in the Republic of Croatia or 25481 which is certainly a significant figure in the register of non-profit organisations. But also, when we look at their activities, we can say that there are various associations, there are domestic and foreign associations. What counterpart Vuksic said earlier was that money should be monitored. So we know that money flows are followed and under the Money Laundering Act every transaction in the Republic of Croatia is monitored and there is no problem in entering the money flow. But what is already evident at the beginning of Mr. Lalovec's debate is evident that associations pay income tax, pay VAT. Now it's only a matter of desire whether those who make a bigger income especially those greater than 230,000 kunas want to be taxed, at which rate and in what way. That's the question, so the effects that we want to achieve with this legal solution. However, the law on the financing and business of the accounting of non-profit organisations is intended to put under control non-profit organisations which have been almost out of control so far. It is primarily brought on account of various foundations, foundations of domestic and especially foreign. So I believe that the money flow was followed, but what individual associations are especially funded by foreign money in the past 20 years that they have done in the Republic of Croatia. This law focuses a lot on religious organizations and someone mentioned a little before the competition. There's no game here. The religious communities are known to finance particularly if we are talking about state resources that are defined and contracted with the Holy See. When we talk about county, urban, municipal budgets, they must justify the funds and also deliver financial reports on the spent funds delivered from these budgets. Therefore, there should be no delusion that someone was not covered by the control of the dedicated financing of certain activities. Sports associations should be dealt with by the Sport Act, where all sports associations that have contracts with athletes should be defined, cannot operate as associations but must be transformed into companies. So it doesn't have to be an amount of 230 thousand kuna. I'm interested, too, in Mr. Lalovec, in how you made it right up to £230,000. You were talking about Germany, some neighbouring countries. It could have been 500,000 kuna, and it could have been 20,000 kuna. Why am I saying that? Because I know how to get into some catering facility myself, so you don't know that some association is behind it, so actually when you find out that associations are behind it, that they don't pay VAT, and in fact they should just be members of the association that they can use that facility and then you ask yourself the question of those competitions of paying taxes or not paying taxes. Those involved in commercial activity cannot subsidise and should, although 20,000 kuna are concerned, pay taxes. There can't be competition. But where it is left in this legal proposal a maneuvering space is one of those controls. When control comes, it's the 230 thousand kunas you're talking about, but I'm also talking about 20,000 kunas if someone's in the catering business. This activity should be done as d.o.o. NGO. These are questions that should certainly be discussed. This law will further complicate the business of most non-profit organisations, especially those who make the revenue I said 230 thousand kuna, because they have to run double accounting, set up a system of financial management and control, publish their financial reports on the websites. You mentioned earlier that I think 90 political parties have been reported to the Ministry of Finance. We all know in the media that it says there's a lot more. So I wonder where those political parties went, for example? All non-profit organisations know that they work well on volunteerism, and here each will have to have an accounting additional service and pay the costs of this very accounting. In most non-profit organisations, volunteers mostly work, and this is how accounting will be done by additional costs. What I also want to say in Article 48 you define the time for 2015. According to us from the HDSSB, financial reports could already be taken from 2014 as a form that would start to control the NGO system. So not wait 2015 and the period from 31.12.2015, Mr. Lalovec, but already for 2014. Article 33 provides for the establishment of a d.o.o. or Article 46 penalty from 5 to 500 thousand kuna. Penalties are important, penalties are necessary for the system to be controlled but exactly the link, that is, Article 40, subjectivity in monitoring whether or not someone has performed economic activity. There will be a variety of things in the controls, and these rules may need to be better clarified, detailed, so that later there will be no problem with the control of individual systems itself. What's important in our systems is that we often see caritative activity, and when you see someone who wants to donate to Caritas, you still have to pay a donation tax, then you sure as hell have to talk about such donations. Because it is certain that the hungry would be helped even more by the thirsty in the Republic of Croatia, which is increasingly not to pay taxes. And that 25% certainly would contribute to more food and lunches being cooked or helped for other purposes just for those who need help most. Therefore, caritative activity and donations to that part should also be considered to be regulated in a different way. What follows us in the coming years is an even greater amount that associations will have at their disposal. The European Commission is financing over a billion euros in EU-space associations. But we know that a good part of the association in the Republic of Croatia has already run for projects and has already implemented projects with the EU where participation of local administration units was needed with 10% to 20%. And we know that we have partner relations because exactly the associations were initiators of most of the withdrawal funds especially in international co-operation. I ask you, when do they get income for a project and we want to tax that income from the EU? Also, these rules should be clearly defined. Because the big funds are ahead of us from the structural funds, the big funds, and the capacity right now... organisations that can implement these projects and programmes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We think in the HDSSB that this legal solution should be brushed, a lot of people are employed, 9757 workers in associations, 866 million kunas went for their salaries but also paid income tax, VAT paid. Thus, by looking at the structure of associations that had more income than 5 million kuna, we had some 98 such associations in the Republic of Croatia. I know that you want to put them under control, and that's logical, but I say emphasize, separate professionalism from amateurism, separate volunteerism from something that isn't. However, associations themselves are not profit organisations and therefore should separate NGOs from d.o.o. And that's what I was saying in this part of commercialization when we're talking about some of the activities that the associations are dealing with, and that's not what they're after. Therefore, looking at this legal solution requires grinding and finishing. You don't have to judge anyone because if someone didn't pay the tax, and he had to, it would certainly sanction him and surely be in prison. Therefore, it is only a matter of desire to get some part of the association i.e. Whether or not he wants to tax his winnings. And we all know that a good part of society is just using that profit to function these societies. You have a chance to see and sports companies in one year will sell players and will make a big income, and then three years will have no income because they will not sell any players. And they should survive that period. According to this, Minister Jovanovic was to go to changes to the Sport Act to provide opportunities for those who want to help clubs so that they could donate clubs in a different way. The segment of culture is also very important donations to culture. But also all other activities that are covered right now by associations and the civil sector. Looking at the number of individual activities in the Republic of Croatia when we talk about associations drawing funding from the state budget in recent years, then seeing that sports is the highest draw, or 25%, persons with disabilities 21%, protection and promotion of culture 19%, national minorities 8.96%, democratisation of civil society 7.89%, participants and victims of the Homeland War 3.14%. Let's say the prevention of addiction is only 2%, etc. And now that you're looking at this very civil sector that's working on projects that are being prepared and that delivers projects for the state, for counties and cities and municipalities, and today for the EU that are preparing because the cost and preparation of projects costs, people who are on projects cost but what is evident most of the associations are just installing in the projects their people who are getting paid. It is therefore a new form of organization’s approval and functioning. Therefore, this law should define what professionalism is, which is amateurism, which is commercial, and which is non-commercial, but this law must not kill the non-governmental sector, the civil sector. Therefore, this should be an imperative of this legislative solution in order for NGOs to develop, in order for everyone to do their part of the job especially in the NGO. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73490	Thank you, too. Let's go to the replicas, dear representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73491	Comrade Bubalo, in the final part of your presentation, you've already answered a part of my question when I raised up for the replica. Kill this law and it seems to me that whoever put it together doesn't understand how to kill it and how it works. And definitely, I agree with you that professionalism should be separated from volunteers and in the part where you mentioned associations dealing with some kind of activity like, as we popularly call it in Primorje barutant from some football clubs, the Bosniak clubs that have a bar, make some revenue. The fact is they have IDs and then they share it as their members. However, volunteerism itself and 90% of all these associations kill are financed from the budget of units of local self-government by the greatest work and there is a clear control, they can be financed in a way that can run their projects, get a certain amount of funding for projects and on the basis of implemented projects file later reports. The other thing is that it refers to some kind of caritative activity, whether to put into this law and in that part of the professionalism of the association that are composed as clubs of treated alcoholics or associations dealing with children, the association of voluntary blood donors, I think it takes a much more flexible part, not putting as you yourself have said in the same basket. It is definitely known what a club like Dinam means, selling players or everything that the predecessors talked about, and it is definitely known and what it means for some singing choir that performs some kind of performance that has most members over 60, 70, 80 years, and what they mean in the gathering and mobilization of the population in the area.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73492	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73493	I, in my debate, pointed out that it is necessary to separate professionalism from volunteers but that someone should be prevented from running a coffee shop or a catering facility at the association and we know that without a card they will be able to come and drink a drink and pay for that service as well. But what I want to highlight is also from 12 billion and 700 million kunas, as it turns out in associations, 2 billion from the budget, a billion from the state around, a billion from all local, municipal and county budgets, thus less than 20% is funding through projects and through funds from units of local administration, and these funds are justified. However, it is evident that this law wants all to deliver statistics and that we have all reports, and it is important, but it must not be forgotten that organizations that are particularly caritative and should be excluded from paying taxes on those donations that they receive.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73494	Dear Representative Ivan Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73495	It is certainly necessary to mention some of the things that I am familiar with in order to better understand the functioning of the executive authority and various contracts. When it comes to church taxes, then in my opinion the charity received by the church from the believers should not be entered into the tax item, but if the church gets money from the state budget then I know reliably, that's what the former ambassador of Croatia to the Vatican and the Vatican told me that the church must then give a report as to what the taxpayers' money spends. And when he told the president... the conferences of Croatia you are obliged to report, he replied to him, we agreed with the government that we do not have to give a report, so here is a political factor in the game and he should not be present. The law should apply to everything equally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73496	Replicate response, distinguished representative Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73497	This colleague Grubisic, I worked ten years in the executive office at the mayor's place, also the mayor and I know well at the end of each year that associations justify funds purposefully and especially religious communities have also provided funds for which they have targeted those funds for which they have sought and for what purpose. It's usually for the protection of cultural goods because we know that the maintenance of cathedrals, churches, especially churches 100, 200 and 300 and more years of age, and it certainly costs funds. But, Mr. Grubisic, I haven't heard anywhere that even in Europe is peeking at charity, the one given in the church and taxing it, I hope you're not a bet that you should also be taxed. Thus, churches give their reports at the end of the year to municipalities, cities, counties. I believe Mr. Lalovec will confirm that the use of funds at the state level also delivers a report, and that's what I'd like to hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73498	Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73499	Dear colleague Bubalo, you're very clear, you've actually explained what I was talking about. You said the one that deals with commercial activity can't be in... that's where I totally agree. Because what's more commercial than football? There's no more commercial. What's more economic than football? There's nothing more commercial. That could be regulated by the Sports Act, like you said. You said that all donations should be recorded, that sports clubs should be allowed, and then you said art associations, that they could, but sports professional clubs should be separated from that, and public money should not go to sports professional clubs, public money, in amateurs yes, but certainly not to professional clubs. And today what happens in the city of Zagreb? Public money goes to professional clubs so players have as much pay as possible, so players can drive as angry cars as possible. Is that okay? At the same time, the crowd of Zagreb digs through garbage cans, those who finance these rich people. Therefore, professionalism should be separated from amateur sports, and it is absolutely certain that this professional sport must not be financed by public money.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73500	Replicate response, distinguished representative Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73501	Thank you very much. I agree with my colleague Vuksic that football is commercialized, but football is a good promotion for both our countries and cities and municipalities. Unfortunately, the minister did not have the strength, Minister Jovanovic was to amend the Law on Sport that was to be amended and the rules should be defined differently. I agree with you, one is professionalism, the other is amateurism, but you were just talking about one club. So, but in that club where the first team is very professional, we have young age and a few thousand, probably kids who train. Someone's got to pay those coaches, somebody's got to invest in those kids. So I'm to separate especially those kids in which to invest, and especially take care of this part of professionalism, that's where I agree. If someone kills millions, then let millions finance that part of the professional drive, and that's logical, but let's not be fooled, it is especially necessary to isolate these younger adults and children who are our future and who we want to separate from the drugs, from what is on the street, and right through sport and through social work they will contribute to both their development and their development as a person. What we have a chance to see, and you mentioned that, more and more people are digging through garbage cans. That's what we're worried about, that's what makes us sad because we see a growing number of people every day. That is why I said earlier in my debate, my colleague Vuksic, that the caritas and donations that go to karitas should not be taxed but given the chance to those people who need help most, and we see that black numbers in Croatia are even more important tomorrow because we do not have creative policies in the economy, in the development of Croatia, in employment, there are reflections and there we need to find the strength to help such a caritative activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73502	Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73503	Thank you. Here, colleague Bubalo, I agree with you on the thesis, in any case, that the associations that act cardatically should be excluded from this, and I think it's something that I assume the bill promoter will respect and find a model to do so. What's suffering me and it's been hurting me for the last few, two years intensely, it's an economic situation, we're all actually aware that the state is no longer in the six-year recession, but today the state is depressed. This depression requires a variety of ways to remove the consequences of this depression and to reduce the costs of the state itself, and I think that chamber contributions are one of the mildest and those moves that would have the least impact on the standard of citizens and the standard of society and that, for example, one temporary measure of suspension of chamber contributions, in the sense that they are, to be lifted and suspended, for example, by two years, to be voluntary, was a very meaningful measure during the period of this depression, much better than, for example, to go directly to the salaries of Croatian citizens. I felt it myself, and many entrepreneurs also report to us in a club that complains why they have to extract 800 kuna, 1000 kuna, 1500 kuna mandatory membership fees, for example for the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and do not feel that they have absolutely nothing to do with this chamber or that this chamber is helping them in any way in their work. I felt robbed myself because annually about 2,500 kunas had to give to the Croatian medical chamber for which I also felt as a person that it didn't mean anything to me, that nothing was useful to my profession or to me in my work, and I was obliged to pay for it. At times of this recession and this depression, I think a suspension of mandatory membership would be a very meaningful measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73504	Thank you. Replicate response, the esteemed representative Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73505	Thank you very much. Here, my colleague Djurovic, I usually don't answer to my colleagues from the same club because we're almost thinking the same thing, but when it comes to caritas, I'm sure that I repeat, there's a way to help the caritas. But as we discussed, an elderly man sent me a message, says I donate to the children's village in Ladimirevci 100 kuna a month, and I still have to pay the postage. It is not a donation problem, but should have social responsibility and state institutions and state systems, too, to help donate to those who need it most. I therefore congratulate everyone who develops certain actions that contribute to helping those who need it most. But you opened the chamber issue. Should the chamber be united in crafts and economics? I'm sure it's a subject to discuss. The issue of chamber contributions is certain that people should have a favor, but we probably need chambers. You mentioned the medical chamber earlier, I'd like all the chambers to give a certain service to all those who are members and that should be the imperative of all the chambers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73506	Building the political personality of every member of the club is on the line, so we move on. Your Honor, Igor Chesek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73507	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Bubalo, you were talking about professionalism and volunteerism. I would just like to update your debate because during the debate at the Croatian Assembly on the Law on Sports and Sports Inspection we have made it very clear that we should decide what is amateur sport and what is professional sport. We also said that more money from the state budget should be directed towards the development of amateur sports because it is precisely amateur sports that professionals come from, and it is very well known. In the past, there were different times when children or young athletes had to pay practically nothing for memberships or quotations or equipment or fuel to go to the visiting competition, but this is not the case today. I have already asked myself when the proposal of the Law on Sport Inspection was, what effect would this sport inspection have, and I am afraid that this law is covering up Jovanovic's weaknesses. But when you were talking about quarantine associations, I'm asking a question, it's not about this law, is it possible for the ministry to consider abolishing VAT on donated food? Is it safe that you were on the occasion, and you probably took advantage of the same as I come to the bakery and there's that bread for later, it would probably be a lot more if you didn't pay the VAT on that bread.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73508	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73509	Thank you very much. Well, I'm sure there's a little bit of work in the Republic of Croatia today with kids when we talk about sports and I see a long-term problem here. Minister Jovanovic talked about healthy food or that apple or fruit that is very expensive to pay more than it is on the market but we are much more concerned about extracurricular activities that are becoming less per school, extracurricular activities that have helped children especially when we talk about sports and there we need to have a special sensitivity to amateur sports and provide the possibility that those who donate who really want that part of the sport especially children to live and that they have content should be particularly honored and particularly helpful. Just before you mentioned VAT on donated food, I don't think a word should be spent at all, but I think the Ministry of Finance should help.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73510	The last replica inside the club of the respected representative Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73511	Thank you very much. In the club or outside of the club it is therefore we have the right to reply to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and the club and outside the club therefore there is no need to mention these things. Mr. Bubalo here, although I'm at the club, I'm not until we agreed here, which is an NGO, so I'd like to have our audience as well that they are NGOs Non-government organizations or organizations. 230 thousand kuna as a limit is the limit that Mr. Deputy Minister explained with 30,000 euros, which is exactly what the bob said about Germany, right? I must mention, therefore, that one of the Croatian mayors mentioned demining and said that an American organization wanted to donate money for demining but when they heard that they had to pay VAT on a demining donation, they gave up on it. That's terrible, that's amazing. Yeah, they have to pay the VAT on that. What you were saying about professional and amateur sports is the separation of professional teams from the others, a school called Hitrec Kacijan, I don't know everything, it's the right solution you're offering Minister Jovanovic just to point out. So we're also offering a concrete solution to how to solve it. And finally when we help through phone calls to those who have poor health so children with malignant diseases etc. You see on the screen says the call is 5 kunas that we donate plus VAT. Well, that's terrible. And now these kids we want to help, and that's where it came down to the state picking up that unfortunate VAT when someone wants to donate. Here is also in this case and in the case of a demining donation mandatory VAT. It's not all right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73512	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73513	Thank you very much. Well, I'm sure the Ministry of Finance Mr. Linic and Mr. Lalovac have good intentions and I believe this law will be broken but I would like to stress that I mentioned to the NGOs that are NGOs that should always be NGOs. Sometimes it doesn't happen that way, so they're both municipal and urban and countyal, but it's very important to be non-governmental and to distinguish that part of commercial from non-communic. 230 thousand kunas must surely be questioned by the great questionnaire. When it comes to commercialisation, it can be from 20 thousand kuna and not from 230 thousand kuna, therefore it needs to be reconsidered. But what is particularly important in Slavonia and Baranja is the problem for us that people who want to donate the demining of Slavonia and Baranja, and we are aware by the Ottawa Agreement that we will not demining Croatia until 2019, but it will take 10 years more and we are aware from 1.7 last year that there is less donation to eat because of the payment of VAT here we need to think about how to provide an opportunity to speed up the process of demining, creating new ecological spaces that will provide for the development of agriculture and the economy, new employment and that is where we need to find ways. And there's no need to talk about HT as well as VAT about some important things when it comes to helping those who need it most.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73514	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73515	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Bubalo, you've well detected all the shortcomings in this bill, and I'd like to supplement you with the fact that this law completely ignores the basic principles of the work of non-profit organisations, which is the principle of non-profitism. It calls into question the long-term self-sustainability of civil society organisations, associations and will negatively reflect job stability in non-profit organisations, contrary to strategic funding programmes of civil society organisations back 10 years. The same is not proportionate to the goal and purpose that is to be achieved. Prevention and disclosure of organisations that abuse non-profit and legal status for business purposes. And it can't be said in Article 33, which is the worst way to say that this is how companies will be founded so that they will be a company of firemen, a company of cultural workers or a cultural society of disabled people or a company of disabled persons and all kinds. I am in favour of putting everything into frames, but today's regulation clearly states in Article 70 how financial reports are drawn up, what must be done, when they are submitted, about short-term, long-term, balance sheeting, all of this has to be done today. I do not know what the problem is and what is the ultimate objective of this bill since both GONG and other social protection organisations and needs are opposed to such a law because it will only further make their and such modest work more difficult.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73516	Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73517	Thank you very much. When I spoke about associations, I also read their definition, which is to protect their breakthroughs or take up general interests without the intention of obtaining profit,... the rules in the arrangement and structure of the operation of this form of association. So it's not about profitability, it's about protecting breakthroughs and general interest. This should be the goal of each association, but not in every association it was so and certainly that this law would prevent those who tried through associations from doing commercial activity and did not pay taxes. I'm sure they'll get rid of it with this law. You just said to ignore NGOs or their non-profit or self-sustainability. One year you have more income and two years less and certain that this relationship should be seen, but it should be considered and that was income from some commercial activity, so I also mentioned those 20,000 kunas if it is commercial activity and if they appear on the market then they must have d.o.o. That makes sense, and I don't think we should argue about it. I'm sure article 33 will have no D.O. on firemen, disabled people, etc. For they carry out their obligations and do not work profitably. Therefore, I'm sure we won't have d.o.o. Firemen or d.o.o. a disabled person or someone else. Therefore, reports must be reported today but much more important, and what is not said at the outset is the aim of this law and what are the effects of the law on associations.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73518	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73519	Comrade Bubalo, you have well noticed in your debate that establishing a limit of 230 000 kuna of profitable activity for the opening of a company will not, in fact, make it impossible to deal with the profitable activity of non-profit organisations. In general, it is a well-known thing that even small country clubs are sporty, most often about football clubs, so they sell drinks during matches and not only during matches, so they deal with profitable activities and competition are caterers that are in the tax system. So the small ones carry out a small range of profitable activities, the large ones carry out a large range of profitable activities, and in fact, by setting that limit there won't be much change, but what can change is definitely strict control by economic inspection. And you said something else, so the church's charity should not be taxed, and I agree with that in principle, but I will give one comparison that may not be the happiest, but do you know that tips given by waiters in serving drinks and meals are taxed by income tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73520	Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73521	Thank you very much. In my debate, I said it was important that 230 thousand kunas, but someone who works commercially and if it's 20 000 kunas then disrupts the competition and certainly needs to pay taxes. Also because it affects competition. What is important to us in the HDSSB, which is that control is strictly defined and that control is strictly carried out, not to be a criterion like this and such, that there is room for different views of individual associations. What's definitely, charity churches don't tax themselves anywhere, and I didn't hear it was some waiter who got a tip that he paid his taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73522	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73523	Comrade Bubalo, you spoke about the data and total amounts that associations receive from the state budget or from local levels. I must admit I have a certain small reserve according to that data. In fact, it would be credible and what would be necessary, I hope that it will be until the second reading that one such important law as this in the explanation should have a list of all the names of associations, with the name of the association, the activities it deals with and all the sources of funds received from the state budget or units of local self-government or any kind of taxpayer money with recapitulation. Then we could discuss this subject a little bit more clearly and more clearly. The second you spoke of a contract with the Holy Table. So the contract with the Holy Table clearly defines the tripartite use of these funds: for church officials, for the construction of new churches and for caritative purposes. Then I guess we won't, until the second reading, make it right, force the church to form a limited-responsibility society with the registration of charity collection activities to appoint a director for charity. So we'll find the first obstacle, it won't be possible to register at a commercial court because there's no classification of the collection of charity at the trade court register. There's no classification like that. And we need to distinguish the association from the association, we need well-intentioned and not well-intentioned and whether the money is used by the state to build new churches or perhaps to monitor activities to build new regions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73524	Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73525	Thank you very much. Comrade Maric, I must confess that we are very different this time, your opinion and mine. When we talk about the data we have on the activities of the association, I'm sure that the data is accurate and that what both the ministries and the county and the cities donated, and we talk or directed for projects and programmes, that's about 2 billion kuna. I'm sure it's well-placed and I don't have a data reserve. But I have a reserve according to what I said in the debate that we didn't get the data on how much income tax the associations paid, how much VAT they paid, and I wish we had that data here. And I believe that it won't be a problem for Mr. Lalovec to get that data, even if it's a second reading. So by activity, I'm sure we have accurate data. What you mentioned earlier is a contract with the Holy Table. It is clear and certainly I believe that it is being implemented and that the means used to regulate cultural goods are being justified, etc. Therefore, I don't think there's any need to talk about classifications for charity, because I'm sure the charity tax in the Republic of Croatia will never be paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73526	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73527	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Bubalo, you mentioned in your presentation of sports clubs' financial business as one of the problems and you also said that, you also linked it to the prevention of the fight against addiction which I think we are underly emphasising because that is exactly what it comes down to and in that part should be seen. I clearly agree with you that it should be well-determined which associations should be exempt from VAT payments and any other taxes. But not just associations. Liberations or reliefs should be strengthened by every entrepreneur and businessman or natural person who wishes to assist such types of activities especially in sports collectives. We're in a situation today that simply amateur clubs will slowly disappear, so they'll disappear. Because let's just say for example the amateur club in the third Croatian football league I'm talking about if you want to act with all the selections you have to have under the rules, if you want to go to games, if you want to do everything right, it takes a minimum of 600,000 kuna for one season. That's what it takes for coaches, for selections, for travel expenses, for everything else. So I'm asking now if we had that in mind, if we've looked at this situation that you've been saying we need to look at everything that's going to happen and what's going to happen. Which will create problems because to implement this law will require professional people. Today, it's very difficult to find volunteers because no one is given theirs anymore to be followed tomorrow by someone to declare him a thief, a criminal or something else, and he's doing it out of love, out of some volunteerism, a love of sport, or another association.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73528	Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73529	Thank you very much. Comrade Hrg, I know that for many years you have been working in the local administration unit and you certainly know very well what these problems are and how difficult it is for the local administration unit to finance both sports and culture, including all associations in the space of its unit of administration. Surely there are interested businessmen who would help in that part, especially to be freed or freed from that part of the donation, and then to pay the donation tax. That's what I pointed out in the debate with a special reference to Caritas and demining, with a special reference to Caritas and demining. Sports clubs work a lot on prevention and addiction, so sometimes more than those who are really in charge and paid, work on it. Because right through these sports clubs children have activities, children are engaged in sports and are built as persons. This is important and therefore the promotion of sport is important, and therefore it is necessary to amend the Sport Act to assist sports clubs in particular. A long time ago in replicas and debates, professional clubs were heard, one or two of which were spoken. But what wasn't said was how to survive amateur clubs that are really hard and that big volunteerism that exists in clubs survive. That's what I think most of the people who worked in local administrations and regional administrations know very well. Therefore, I ask the Ministry to reconsider these suggestions that have arrived specifically on donations, on caritative activity, on demining and what is important for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73530	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73531	Dear Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This law is still here in the assembly today, and otherwise these days, these weeks, since it's brought a lot of attention to the public. I'd dare say a lot more than objectively it deserves. It turns out this law is much more important than it really is. Why? Well, because it comes from the wrong things. Which is the purpose, the purpose of this law, and what it ends up writing. Is the introduction of taxes and taxation of churches, trade unions, associations etc. Or the introduction of order? So, is the aim of introducing taxes, taxation or introducing order? It turns out all over this debate that this is going to be the first one, and there's almost nothing or nothing about it in this law. This law does not impose any taxation on anyone, but introduces order. I'll try to show it in my debate, and I hope to prove it. So, I remember that Thursday when this law was sent to the government here to us at the Parliament. At that time, all the media, television, electronic and other media reported what would happen now, whether to introduce the tax, and it went to the church the most, so the editor "Vlas Koncila" was called in the third journal. Will now be taxed on charity, what priests collect for baptism, for baptism, etc. Of course, and of course there is nothing in this Law, not only in this Law, but also in other laws that regulate it, and this Law does not regulate it at all. But, of course, it's convenient to say now that the SDP is in power that now it's going to introduce taxation of the church, taxation of the church's activities because it's convenient, because it agrees with the SDP. A neighbor tells me the next day after what he was looking at, so the neighbor says, "Why are you doing this to a people who don't support my political option?" The great communists used to say the church wanted to destroy it, and now you want to tax it. That's the kind of man that gets the impression of what's being talked about. And whenever it was, I would be against this law with both hands, but in this law there is no law. Anyway, it's convenient to say, why does someone do it, why does the media do it, why do we do it here? That's another question. You know, in the media, in the public, and here in the Parliament, there's a lot of things to say, and it's bullshit and it's not true. However, this law does not treat the taxation of any non-profit organisation at all. He only talks about when this non-profit organisation is engaged in economic activity that happens at the time. Although that's been settled before. So, this law is not, but the profit tax law is said and we don't change it. So, as far as the church is concerned, there is first another document that is an agreement between Croatia and the Vatican where it was determined not to enter, that church activities and what the church does are not subject to taxation in Croatia. We don't change that as we know it. But we are not changing the Tax on Profits Act in which it is said loudly and clearly that all non-profit organisations that perform a general socially beneficial task and as long as they carry out this task and as long as they are engaged in such activities as religious communities, so churches, trade unions, voluntary fire companies, humanitarian, social and other associations, sports clubs, etc., as long as they carry out this activity and that activity is not taxed. However, I can have no idea how much extra income on expenditure it will not be taxed. It clearly states in the Tax on Profits Act because it regulates it, not this law and it, as you know, we don't change it. What God is trying to introduce in this law is that those who, non-profit organisations carrying out economic activity, and this economic activity crosses 230 thousand kunas, i.e. income on this basis, need to start a company. But about that I'm not sure if it's good, is it... 230 grand or you don't need it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? Because even so far under the existing regulation, anyone who has engaged in economic activity, regardless of whether he had income from 10 kuna, 10 thousand kuna or million kuna, has been treated as an economic activity and is subject to all tax purposes, so I can tell the regulations as well as any other economic activity, regardless of what is not registered as d.o.o. or a stock company. So there's no difference. And so far, whoever was doing it regardless of whether it was a sports club, a humanitarian association, a social one, if he was doing economic activity, so some of them were talking about a coffee shop here, etc., and so far, that same bar had to be treated as an economic activity, and if, on that basis, he was making profits, extra income, so profits had to pay taxes on profits, and boredom. Did he pay? About that later. However, what has not been in the regulation so far and why is the law needed? There were no sanctions, there was no surveillance solved the way it is now resolved in this law. This law therefore makes it much better, more detailed and clear. So, what is this law, which is the newspaper in relation to the regulation that has been in force so far? Transparency! And that's the introduction of order. Therefore, all non-profit organisations must publish their annual reports in the Register of Non-profit Organisations at the Ministry of Finance. And that's the only serious news about funding and finance. Nothing else. Of course, news is also being introduced that those who have higher incomes than 3 million kuna must therefore engage in an audit, and those who have over 10 million must also make an annual audit report. And what's important is to introduce surveillance. Let me just go back to business. Therefore, since so far economic activity has been taxed no matter how much, in which proportion it was, it was 100 thousand, 230 or million so it should continue to apply and this law must regulate it in that sense. We leave it open, I'm not sure if that border of 230 thousand kuna has to be because I'm not sure how it can be implemented in practice. For example, some association this year has 250 thousand kuna income from economic activity and now it is unknown when it must start a company. Because I should have done it before? Or will it take next year? And what if next year he doesn't have that income? So, there remain dilemmas. I'd like to leave that open in this first reading so we can see if that 230 thousand kuna is a good limit when we have to determine that a company has to be formed. But what's new, and maybe that's what's just bothering you, and that's to introduce strictly prescribed control measures for all non-profit organizations. So everyone has to submit their financial report and this report will be made public and available to everyone. Maybe that bothers you. And those who receive funds from the budget will have to submit their report to those from whom they received, from the municipality, the city, the county, the state, and more importantly now those who gave them the money will be able to come and control it at any time. And in this case, if they establish something or if they are not allowed clear sanctions, penalties, etc. Maybe that bothers too. What's the difference between those who don't get public money and those who don't get public money so they don't have to file that report where they spend it because they just don't get it. But they have to file a financial report. This was about both unions and other why they had to. Well, it's not public money. No, it's not public money everywhere. So private companies have nothing to do with public money and have to submit their business reports. Why? So they can see if they have achieved economic activity if they have nothing else to gain and to pay taxes on that profit. How will we know if a non-profit organization has earned profits and profits from economic activity if it does not publish its report and is not obliged to deliver? So that every day the tax administration will come to every non-profit organisation because they do, I'm afraid it's a little too demanding and impossible to implement. So, what are the powers of surveillance? In order to establish irregularities, they shall give a period of protection, that if they determine that, if undue or incorrect, public money is spent to issue a solution to its return. And what is also important is that if they find that there is a suspicion of a criminal offence that or money laundering that they are obliged to process it. If they have doubts that money laundering has occurred, they are obliged to do so, they have the power to do so, therefore in control of all of this being forwarded to the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, or if the elements of the crime are established to report it. It's a duty and a duty of supervision. And that, is it possible to get money laundering or illegal business in those who do not receive public money, which are not financed from the budget, whether municipal or state, so that it is possible, meaning, and those who advocate that they should not publish financial reports, you all, so should remain unprotected, why? Therefore, here in this law it is not about taxation but about introducing order because taxation has been settled by other laws, the VAT law, the profit tax law, there is no word or change here, so there is no new taxation but there is order. Now why is someone against introducing order, then. Right now, let me say, from this law, and when there's a strict problem, there won't be any tax benefits, so associations don't have big profits from their non-economic activity so it can save the state budget or anyone, no. Therefore, it is neither purpose nor objective, but the objective is simply if it carries out a commercial activity to place it in an equal position, as is the case with others who do so, and if they make profits on that basis rather than the basis of their work, why this association was founded to pay profit tax on that basis as well as others. If, therefore, a non-profit organisation performs non-profits, carries out commercial activities and does not have a profit, no profit, no tax, therefore there is no problem. So what is certainly absolutely news, which is that this law brings transparency, the introduction of order, and that is why I hope that we are all in favour, through supervision, through the obligation to publish financial reports, through supervision, through the obligation of audit reports of those who have greater incomes, etc. So I hope that we will try this law if not in this first reading then at least in the second reading we will start talking about what he really is and not what he is not questioning that some things may not have to be solved differently but not in this law but in someone else's. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73532	Dragutin Lesar replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73533	Comrade Jelusic, you have mentioned several times that this law introduces order and that is a good intention and any such bill deserves support. However, in order to establish order, we kill a cow for a kilo of meat because on one true example, I will illustrate what is missing from this law and when we bring it and write these laws we do not see life. He refers to the treasures. One such foundation in Međimurje is called the Katruz Solidarity Foundation and deals exclusively with helping citizens in the treatment, operations and rehabilitation of citizens. So those who have fallen out of the public health and health care system. When this foundation buys a cure for a citizen who is prescribed by a specialist and is not on the list of HZZO, VAT must be paid. When that foundation imports a medicinal product or other medical aid, it pays customs and VAT. When a patient receives a proposal to use a medicine on the list of HZZO but not for any other diagnosis from which a specific citizen is required as an experimental medicine based on recommendations from the World Health Organization, VAT shall be paid. That's their position today. So, the foundation collects citizens' money, solves system problems and pays VAT and now comes economic activity because part of the income is achieved by selling souvenirs, by selling flowers, Katruza is a bourjois, selling the bourjois flower and organising a humanitarian concert to collect money from tickets, which from income. They have to pay a premium fee if they sing any song or play piano and VAT on it. Tell me such a foundation that covers the failure of health care or public health by you must be in this system.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73534	Thank you. The reply to the replica Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73535	My colleague Lesar, I'm glad you're on the verge of my discussion, which is that you just didn't publicly say that you agreed that this law on this problem you're discussing is not being treated, no. Well, this law doesn't determine who's gonna pay the VAT or who won't. You simply solved it with the VAT Act, nor do you solve this who gets paid, who doesn't. Against the association, every association, and yet again, the VAT Act, which deals with its activities, health, human and social, and as long as it carries out that activity, can achieve a small amount of income, will not pay a profit tax based on the fact that it has extra income not to say pro, excess income over expenditure. Not according to profit tax, not according to this law. So that's what comes out of this law and from the other one.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73536	You're all talking about VAT, but it's the second law. Branko the Hill of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73537	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Jelusic, you are actually a very pious party, the whole time there is a church in front of your eyes, but that's not why I answered. I've come to you for your sentence that the purpose of the law is to establish order. I am now really having really one long-standing experience in the work of associations, and as a member and active member of various associations, each after your debate, I find that Croatia will flourish after the order has been introduced into those thousands of associations that have an annual budget of 5 to 10 thousand kunas and gather thousands of citizens who want to join together to meet perhaps some of theirafinities, perhaps some of their hobbies or to help those who need it most. They object to this law. It is these small associations that are rebelling, and it is really unthinkable for me that we are now convincing ourselves here or you, some of us, how wonderful the law is, how it will improve everything because it will introduce order, and those to whom this law applies, who also want to have order because today these associations are also giving their reports to local self-government units for each spent kuna and it is known exactly what that money is spent because each year in the final accounts of the budget, each association provides an excuse for each kuna that it spends and for what activity. I really don't understand who's actually going to do this surveillance? It's the introduction of order by the state because apparently the local level doesn't know how to run order, it doesn't know how to control its associations in its area, now it's going to make it our powerful state. How many new inspectors are there going to be?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73538	Thank you very much. Ivo Jelusic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73539	I'm sorry, colleague Hrg, if you don't know who's going to be in charge, and the law makes that clear. So, with you, I agree that until now the association had to submit a report on the public funds spent if it was from municipalities, cities, counties to the state. So whoever you got it from, that's what you were proud of the report, right. But what about that money that's not public money, it hasn't been regulated this way so far. Therefore, no matter where the money was from, not only the public, each association must submit a report on how much income it had, how much expenditure it had, so it must submit an annual report. Why? Well, I'll say it. To see if she also had an economic activity in her income that might need to be taxed. That if he doesn't file a report, then no one knows what he's doing. Could it be in that union, I repeat, money laundering? Yeah, if he's not reporting to anyone, who's gonna see it? Therefore, this law only requires transparency and nothing more, it is its first and main goal and that is what is most important. So, introducing order and transparency so that it doesn't come to what I was just talking about. I don't know why the associations are complaining. Why would someone object to his financial business being transparent if financial operations should be transparent to everyone and to companies and also to private companies, 100%. It has to be transparent. Why? So to see if it was a company that made a profit and paid a profit, so that it could be seen if it was money laundering, so that it could be seen if it was illegal. So only illegalities can exist in the real sector, not in other sectors. I think there may be, therefore... a possibility, is he who works, who deals with his activity, within his registration, so social welfare, humanitarianism. And if they do, they run a good financial business, they have nothing to fear, though, those who do fair and good will not do anything to them, especially not bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73540	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73541	Dear colleague Jelusic, I am not pious, and yet I mention the same church, you mentioned the church. You were saying something, I didn't realize exactly that they used to tell you that you were going to destroy the church, and now you want to tax it. However, no one will destroy the church, it has 2,000 years of tradition and has neither shown up nor will appear, you don't need to be afraid of it, that perhaps the ignorant think that with some petty tax something will be destroyed. However, if the church is engaged, the part where it deals with economic activity should certainly be, if it is in a market game, to pay, but it does not refer to donations, or voluntary contributions given in the church. It was mentioned before, when talking about sports and then it was mentioned that this professional part of sports should be separated and even when it is at the club, so those pioneering plants would not be considered to be part of the professional part of the club. However, I think it's entirely wrong. These pioneer or youth football schools are also part of a professional club because on the basis of these small players trained by professional coaches, clubs will earn tens or hundreds of millions of kunas. Therefore, what a professional club should be is a professional club and a professional drive starts from the smallest to the biggest, and what is shown in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73542	Ivo Jelusic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73543	Comrade Vuksic, don't you hear me talking about the church, about the fear. I was talking about that after certain dikes and media shows, etc. There's a legitimate fear in people who haven't read the law, and people don't read the rule of law, neither do many who sit in the House, why would citizens, that now there would be a tax on the church, that now from..., from charity, from what priests charge for funerals, for baptism, that it would be taxful, that was so insinuation, and so many people realized it, so they asked me, it's not the devil that it would happen, it's not the devil that you'd do it to the church. Of course not, I told those who asked me now, so for two reasons. First of all, this law does not resolve this, the second point of the VAT Act has precisely determined that any non-profit organisation that deals with its activity for the part while carrying out its activity may have a small amount of income on expenditure, does not pay profit tax, so it does not pay taxes. And that's what's important to say, of course it's important that you don't usually say it because someone doesn't like to say it I don't know why. But for those of us who propose this law and stand behind it at the very least, it is order and polite to tell us what is true and what is not. And people are smart enough to understand what's going on. As for sports, as well as all sports associations, as long as they are engaged in their sporting activities and earn income from this activity do not pay profit tax, if they are engaged in economics yes. They've had to do it so far, and now they're going to have to do it under this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73544	Ante Sanader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73545	Thank you. Dear Mr Jelusic, I absolutely agree with you that order should be introduced, in the introduction of order, and I believe that no one is against it, that of all these associations may be some individual case for those who may be afraid of introducing order and transparency absolutely publishing the data of all who need it. I believe no one is against it. But I am appealing to you here and you have put yourself a dilemma of this establishment of companies I think it is illogical and it will cause a lot of, a lot of problems because when you start talking about this economic activity everything can be taken under whether it is economic activity or not. It is a dilemma and profit tax for you, so if it does something and it doesn't share it with its members as a company so it will share profits, it further invests in the activities of the association. And that's why I think it's starting a company and I absolutely disagree with this 230 thousand kuna because I don't know how you got to that border because if you start a business, then you have to have a CEO and then that director will... and we'll have to hire him and then run a new bookkeeping. So we're paying a lot of new costs to that association, and for virtually nothing, because three employees if you take these 7.5 thousand, that's 84 thousand a year, without any travel expenses, 84 thousand and three employees already have 240 thousand. If that's how we treat a football club that has three coaches or someone who's younger and now he has to regulate it as a company we come into 100 new problems. That's why we appeal to you to the ruling majority that and this dilemma of yours that you brought out to go in that direction that there is no need for establishment. If there is some problem association that you wanted to regulate with this, then give these few associations to solve or insist otherwise, not to get all associations into trouble because of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73546	The reply to the replica Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73547	I'm glad you're knocking on the open door and agreeing more or less with what I said. I'm glad that support comes from that side of the hall when we want to introduce order and admit that it's an introduction of work, and I'm really glad you said that. As far as companies are concerned, I said I'm still standing by, there are certain doubts. These 230 thousand kunas are defined when someone has an economic income of more than 230 thousand kuna. Why 230? Because it is now laid down by the VAT Act that when someone makes an income greater than 230 thousand kunas must necessarily enter the VAT system, hence the 230 thousand. However, I doubt it, and I ask the question whether it must be that 230 thousand kunas and whether it might need to be better to evaluate it because I say what if some association and not knowing that this year is going to come true, and this is what happens to it, and it has more than 230 economic activity, it plans to achieve 200, and it achieves 250 what then, does this mean that it needs to have a company this year or next year, and next year it may not have at all? So this is a question that between these two readings still needs to be discussed fat and see what the benefits of the state in terms of tax are, therefore, minimally almost negligible for the budget and that is certainly not motive when it comes to this law to introduce it. The motive is to introduce order to prevent lawlessness, non-transparency and crime if there is one.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73548	Cresimir Bubalo, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73549	For a very short time, you told your colleague Jelusic in your discussion that you were making public reports available to some. I don't think you're allowed to report to anyone that what's good is 99.99% of the associations are doing their jobs transparently, and I'm sure public reporting will contribute exactly to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73550	The reply to the replica Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73551	A fellow bug from your mouth to God's ears, it would be good if it were, but that's the greatest news of this law exactly that, if everyone now had to submit their annual financial report, that's the biggest news. And most of all, it rose up against this very law because of it. Those who are truly because of this often cover it up with other reasons because everyone is ashamed to say that it is against transparency or not to let God control it... what it does. But it's really the biggest news. And if no one is against it then I think not only this Parliament will unanimously support it, but it will support the entire Croatian public and all associations.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73552	Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73553	Thank you. You, a colleague in your speech, have, on many occasions, used the concepts of introducing order and transparency. These terms are more or less heard in these 27 months in most of the bill that your government is proposing. If so much order and transparency is introduced, give examples in these 27 months of some international scales on which Croatia has really moved in the functioning of the rule of law and on the lists of transparency. I'll say it's this law in my opinion as well as many laws that you make with two of them would characterize them it's prenuptial and it's legal uncertainty. So you're not introducing order, you're systematically introducing legitimate prenormation in all aspects. So here you are along the way here and the NGO sector. And what would be the introduction of order and transparency wouldn't be an over-normation, which, of course, gives birth to legal uncertainty is no one like this society... whether in the economy whether in the civil sector whether anywhere they don't know what's waiting for it in six months, new norms come and change all the time. But what didn't lead to the introduction of order and the introduction of transparency is the operation. The law enforcement and functioning of the state apparatus in all its segments is missing. You can write, write, write, norm as much as you want when you haven't implemented structural reforms of the state apparatus and that state apparatus in all its aspects doesn't work better than it did at the beginning when you took over the mandate and there's your problem. You can't use a constant legitimate pre-normation to introduce order, you won't introduce it. Introduce disorder and introduce legal uncertainty.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73554	Replication response, Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73555	Col. Djurović, no one is reasonable for persuasion as you say, and if you find anywhere in this law, make a proposal, amendment, etc. If that's justified, I'll be the first to support it. But you're saying we're looking for the introduction of order, and we're actually doing a little out of control. So come on, we are in line, and support us here, if there's an overload, make concrete suggestions, we'll throw it out, but let's not question the essence of the law, which is to introduce control and order. It is true that we want to introduce order, order, transparency, justice, honesty, etc. It's true that we're doing it, and that's what we want. We've got results. And on the competitiveness list and on the transparency list, we moved, the truth God a little, but you know when it falls then it falls rapidly, and when you start climbing, it climbs slowly, but we're in the upward trend, positive. Of course, make sure the results are visible. So I'm going to tell you the first year of the government's rule in 2012 namely... the famous reduction in the contribution to health care that we've reduced by 2 points, from 15 to 13%, and the same year almost the same money as the previous years when it wasn't cut because order was introduced, because those who haven't paid so far, who have been looked through their fingers. So there's order. But, of course, when you introduce order and someone who was protected from having to pay, and usually protected from politics and government, of course, it bothers him when someone introduces order and then says that it was even, that it was a tax press, that it was an overstretcht. It's not a nice gentleman, it's not a tax press, it's a prenup. It's an order that obviously bothers a lot of people, and it's here for some in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73556	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73557	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. So listening to these discussions and reading this law simply raises a question to a man for whom this law is passed because when you look at this law and look at the legal provisions that have so far regulated control and records of non-profit organizations, then you will see that nothing has essentially changed. Another thing, to justify something that is difficult to justify by introducing order is the easiest. However, we are constantly forgetting that all these non-profit organisations, regardless of how they have established them under certain laws, so none has fallen out of the air, that it is not defined by the law as it can be adopted. It is also in the statutes of each non-profit organisation that it must maintain the assembly annually, that it must submit a financial report. The second thing, it's funny to hear here that the funds are being spent anyway, so it's precisely known that those who receive the budget by the Budget Law are defined to be the ones from whom they received the funds, whether it's from donations or donations, we're not going to argue about it now, we have to submit a report on what they've spent the funds on. So it's just a fact and you can't get away from it. The second thing, it is evident that the only thing that is controversial in this law and the only thing that was intended to discipline certain sports associations and religious organizations, first of all the Catholic Church, is Article 33, and that is the fact and the truth, and we cannot escape from it. Why? So this article 33 produced a series of misunderstandings and produced a series of questions and just started discussing everything and everything in the Croatian public. Why, because all of these provisions of this law are clear, they are no new invention except for, say, what is now the possibility of this virtually everyone on their websites should publish their financial report and now you've heard that some of them bother that it shouldn't be so. To be honest, every non-profit man who is in the interest of illegality, non-transparentity, so he really has to be a fool if it's in his best interests. But this article 33 is something that is controversial, Article 33 is something that everyone today in the debates and replicas is spinning about, but simply no one had the courage to say what it is, which is what they want to discipline some sports clubs and they simply want to send a message to the Catholic Church. Why, because the Tax on Profits Act in its Article 2 paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 clearly defines who does not pay the profit tax, also at which point those who do not pay the profit tax are taxpayers of the pay of the profit tax. It is clear and I will now quote, it says, exceptionally if the persons referred to in paragraphs 5 and 6 of this bargain are engaged in economic activity, and the non-taxation of that activity... until the acquisition of unwarranted benefits on the market, the tax administration will, on its own initiative or on the proposal of other taxpayers and other interested persons, determine by means of a solution that those persons are taxpayers of profit tax. That's how it's always been. And if that's clear by the Tax on Profits Act, then I don't see what's so bad about Article 33. Why, because you look at colleagues and colleagues, when you have to start a company, then that company operates under clear laws, so it is automatically applied and the profit tax law applies, the Income Tax Act applies, the Contribution Act although it is practically in the VAT system. And that's something completely different about nonprofit organizations. And what is said here here is that those who do up to 230 000 carry out some kind of activity will be determined by the Tax Administration, and those who over 230 000 have to start a company. Well, that we've got specific associations by some groups, etc. Then they would see in principle what I said, who is being sent a message to this Article 33. Shall we start with sports associations? Let's play three or four clubs at this point in Croatia that can be professional clubs, three or four, I don't know if there can be more. We have two or three clubs tied to private financiers and they're practically private clubs. And that's all that's out of some system that needs to get help from local self-government units. However, this aid is also defined by the law on, in fact, the decision to meet common needs in sport, culture, etc. by the representative bodies of the local self-government unit. Therefore, money cannot be shared by hand and hat, and it is clear that these funds donated from the budget of the local self-government unit are intended to finance youth plants. You can't finance the first team with that. But colleagues and colleagues, I'll mention one name. I hope he doesn't mind. Well, now it is not the last big transfer of the young, and fortunately for Croatia Halilovic has fallen with no. Someone invested in it, someone trained him, someone recognized his talent. How many pearls of Croatian sport failed because no one took care of them in key years? How much? We want to talk about all the sports? We're gonna pick them up today. And now look, treat that transfer one way or another. You know exactly what money that player gets in a country where he signed a transfer he pays taxes there. What about this money that pays off to clubs on behalf of the damages? Is that why they're gonna have to start a company? That's the key question. Yeah, but he doesn't have any other income. How many games Dinamo and Hajduk play each year to have more than 3,000 viewers. I'm talking about two of the biggest clubs. How many Cibon and Cedevita games play to have more than 1,500 people? How many games? The only handball club Zagreb has continued in the Champions League 10, 12 and more thousand people. But how realistic do these tickets get? How many tickets are given to school sports clubs, how much sport is popularized through these tickets, and young people are dragged into sports. So, so much for this sports section. We want firemen. In these floods now who first found themselves on the services of endangered citizens of the Republic of Croatia? Who first went to the big-gore, mammalic, savvy area? Firemen have gone, and these firemen are among those thousands and among those billions spoken of. Because look, we, the Income Tax Act, have defined that the local self-government unit belongs to so much and so much income tax as the original income to finance a public fire department. And that public fire squad is in this mess that's listed to us here. We want to talk about cultural art societies? So if there were no church and cultural art societies, what would Croatia have today of its historical heritage? Who would have saved that? Some kept it in boxes, but these cultural artistic societies have passed on the promotion of Croatia around the world and talked about our culture and the existence of this people for thousands of years. Who is Croatia's major promoter than Croatian athletes? Shall we go to the football players? Shall we go from the late Drazen Petrovic? Do we want Ratko Rudic and his waterpolysts? Shall we go to Line Cervar and his handball players? But to get that promotion, to have that quality, someone had to invest money in it, someone had to recognize those people and someone had to push it out eventually. We want to say those who do business and create potential for social entrepreneurship. Are they aware of what we will do if we pass such a law to them? That we will practically prevent them from obtaining money from the European Union, because if they start a company and if that company calls to receive EU funds and you force it under this law to set up, it will not be able to obtain those funds. So we're going to list a series of things, and all because of one article, all because of one article we want to send a note to, a political reminder to those we disagree with, we can't come in a different way. And go back to the Catholic Church or whatever. So look at a parish of 6,700 residents of the average age of how old you are. You have 80 funerals, you have 80 or 90 baptisms, you have 13 or 14 weddings. So no one forces you to go to church to get married and charge you no favor from the priest. Also, you call the priest to the funeral, you carry your child to baptism. Is that some kind of income that should be taxed? Is the income I give when the priest comes to bless my house or I go after the mass and make a voluntary contribution to the maintenance of the church, to the construction of the church in my parish. Is that something when it's over $230,000 that you have to start a company? Well, that's a question, colleagues and colleagues, which we have to ask ourselves. It's another thing. This country has signed contracts with religious communities according to certain obligations and we pay 250 million annually on the basis of an international treaty with the Vatican towards religious communities. Also, all priests pay health contributions and pension contributions on some basis that is what it is, otherwise they would not have health insurance. Saying here that there's order being introduced and that it won't pay taxes is simply untrue. So I'll tell you the club that's most haunted annually pays 20 million tax, which contributes, which VAT, 20 million kuna. Is he supposed to pay more? So let the inspection go and make sure it's there. To say that no one had the right to control just isn't true. The tax administration may, regardless of its organisational form if it has an open jury account and has legal subjectivity, come into control of income tax. They suspect that some fees are being paid and they came to see if it was taxed or not. And when they check out all the other checks. So to say that he had no one to control just wasn't a fact. However, you have here a provision in this law that is very interesting and says, that is, I think it's article 45. An appeal against the solution referred to in paragraph 1 shall not be allowed, but an administrative dispute may be initiated. Now look. These inspections, which are not clearly defined here, Mr. Deputy, are all spoken to by the Ministry of Finance. It is not clear to me whether the Ministry of Finance is the Tax Administration or in the control of the budgets then it is budgetary supervision. Therefore, it must be clearly defined in the law. Because the financial inspectorate at the Ministry of Finance is a former foreign currency inspectorate and he's not going to be dealing with this for sure except possibly with some kind of out-of-country transfer. Therefore, this should be clearly defined. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues are not opposed to the improvement of the regulation on the accounting of non-profit organisations, to be better quality. No one is against it, however, that all non-profit organisations should publish and, together with the annual congregations that have their financial reports to be seen like this, but we are opposed to someone telling us in one article possible provisions and that tomorrow I apply those provisions to the one on which it belongs, and that is what is most dangerous. Tax legislation and inspection are not repressive services. They're repressive services at the time they determine it's an irregularity. Until then, they only control law enforcement and even sometimes act educationally with minor violations. And what has happened in Croatia in the past month? Well, you've seen some of them raise their voices a little against either pre-determined settlements or something came to them with inspection. And now you can think if we adopt this article in 33 let some sports official put it that way because it's closer to those who propose the law raises a little voice here's an inspection. Don't let the Catholic Church give God a little bit of a keener opinion of something here's an inspection in some parish and then find out to the priest that he's got so much, and they'll say no it's not charity that's your service. Thus, this definition, which provides an opportunity for something not clearly defined, simply serves to introduce riots and political discipline, not to introduce order. And what I'd like to say in the end, if I don't get there, then I'm going to do it in my individual debate, and that's let's finally settle sports fees. Of the official persons through fees in this amateur part of the players and others. It is illogical to pay taxes, but to finance, for example, a coach for youth categories, you get money from the budget. You're practically going from hollow to empty. There was something regulated by the Law on Sports and the Tax on Income. Let's find that quality solution and make sure we're... 99% of the negativity in sports. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73558	Comrade Shuker, today you get the benches and answer to Mr Grubisic about the contract with the Holy See. It's regulated there not to pay taxes on those services. And no one does... Well, then don't say that someone's going to be repressing the church. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73559	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Shuker, here I am going to refer to your explanation of Article 33 because that's what this whole law is all about. The concept of a non-profit organisation clearly indicates that the first characteristic of such organisations does not exist or is the absence of profit. And with this article, we introduce companies that are tasked with simply profiting. What's going on here? The basic characteristics of civil society associations are lost. It's not about the services that these associations provide anymore, it's about the financial part, it's only about profit. And you can't get a favor like that on the market today. For example, a boy's soccer competition up to 12 years old. You can't get on the market, it can only be done by civil society associations. What should happen to this application of the article? A trading company with more revenue than 230 thousand kuna will receive an exclusive to organise such competitions. In Article 33, we put everything, the first HNL and the County Football League, the Tourist Board and the Bogar Club, we put in association B.A.B.E. And the Pressure Equipment Agency, the Anna Rukavina Foundation and the Disabilities Association, thebirds' and Church's Association. That's all a party can do. No one's ever thought of that before. It is simply clear to everyone that Plan 21 and in this law is actually 21 ways to take money from those who have it barely to survive or almost no longer. Simply small players are used to deal with two, three large ones. There is the primary one football club, church and possibly another association. I think it's the wrong way, but it actually helps to get SDP out of power as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73560	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73561	Thank you very much. Well, you have very well defined what non-profit organisations are, but Article 33 leads us to other waters. In principle, that Article 33 fully denies why non-profit organisations are established. Non-profit organisations are not set up to deal with economic activity, but many of those dealing with non-profit activities or defined in the Profit Tax Act are not profit organisations for the possession of certain assets or for the conduct of certain actions which are in principle beginning to engage in economic activity. But then it is clearly said that there is an analytical bookkeeping where you will see clearly how much it costs, how much they have earned there, and how much they pay the profit tax. However, there is one other thing to say, to one who has such activity and is aware that it will be for many years he will start the company himself, no one should impose it on him for the simple reason that he, with the very obligation to pay the profit tax, does not necessarily mean that he is in the VAT system. If it's not in the VAT system, then it's basically more expensive because it can't refuse pre-tax. Therefore, we have made it clear to the other lex specialis laws and we have worked it out well. Therefore, no one needs this clumsy and dimming article 33. And also, as far as the contract with the Holy Table is concerned, we all know what he looks like. However, some of the things I talked about in the debate are not said in that contract. Because someone can say it's a commercial activity because it turns out that you can invite this priest and that priest and those kind of faith to escort you to eternal rest, but that's clearly an ignorance of certain things.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73562	Ivo Jelusic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73563	Dear colleague Shuker, when you say something, I'm thinking why you said it. Either you're uninformed or you're bad. It's either ignorance or manipulation. Which, by the way, I don't know, maybe in response to the replica, you'll tell me why you said it because you're doing it out of ignorance and ignorance, or because of that kind of badness and manipulation. And you said the following, so I don't suppose now what the priest picks up for funerals, baptisms and other taxes will be taxed. You said it, said the man, a broken man, and he was alive. And we all know he won't, and you know, I guess you know he won't if you know he won't and you're saying otherwise, so it's something else. Why won't they? Because it was first regulated by a contract between the Holy chair and the Republic of Croatia where it was so clear and loudly spoken. The second thing, therefore, the VAT Act does not need a contract with the Holy See, which this Assembly has adopted, has been autonomously found to be clear and loud that religious communities will not be taxed when they carry out their religious duties and that is a religious duty, income on that basis. It's clearly and loudly written. Not only for churches but also for any other association that deals with its activities, sports, cultural, humanitarian, etc. It's clearly in the VAT Act. Of course, he who knows the law and who wants to read it and who wants to read it legally, honestly, and as he says. Why do you say that differently? The thing is, you answer. I repeat, are you doing this because you don't know or are not informed of what I suspect, given everything you've done in your past, and if you're doing it for this other reason and for the badness and for the need to manipulate these citizens, then I understand you, but I don't justify it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73564	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73565	My colleague Jelusic, you've been scratching the concept of profit tax and VAT all the time. So let's get this straight first. As far as wickedness is concerned, Article 233 introduces great uncertainty, and now you can say whatever you want. And you're talking about introducing order with various changes, no one in Croatia has introduced such a mess as you've just introduced it, and in the end, you've tried to explain yourself about the return of 2%. But look glamorously you announced a list of debtors, what's the effect of that? It does not speak of it anymore, glamourously you have talked about some solution to the indifference, the overing of similar and non-matched debts, and here no one disputes any provision of the article in this law other than Article 33. And the other thing is, there's no one in HDZ that's going to tax the church. At the end of the day, you put this article in the 33rd time exactly at which point, which was happening in Croatia and began to write massively that the church would be taxed that the exact name and last name of the minister would be taxed, the minister would do this, the minister would do so. It's not clear to me now if this is the position of your club, what you're saying now, then it would be a logical thing that the spokeswoman of the Ministry or the Government or spokeswoman of your Club, your party said no, it's not true in accordance with the contract with the Holy Table, the church will not be taxed. Then they would, then they would be credible. You are now telling us something after a month and a half, two days but I say remember what happened in Croatia at the moment the headlines were thundering, order will be introduced, the church will be controlled etc. Therefore, I'm just saying what's interpreted by your bill, therefore the HDZ's stance on taxation of the church is quite clear. If we wanted to do it and if we thought about it we'd have done it a long time ago but we also clearly defined...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73566	Thank you. Tomislav Klaric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73567	Comrade Shuker, you mentioned non-profit associations that are set up and the fact is that they are all established in accordance with the statutes, they have their bodies, they are registered in the authorities of the state administration and there is nothing disputed about it. It is also not disputed that mainly the funds for which they receive for their work either from state or local self-government, regional self-government intended for their projects, and they must justify them by realising the programme or returning them, and that's the thing that's clear. You mentioned a sewn society and it's a fire department. Therefore, local self-government units are subject to a percentage that must be financed by fire companies. This Government, by introducing this very orderly order in order for the absurd to be greater, these voluntary fire companies that are exclusively voluntaryly funded from the budget of units of local and regional self-government must pay VAT, since they are introduced into all items that they serve to obtain equipment and all of that. But what is important and there is also a colleague, Boris, and you, Article 33, item 1 in one year, 230 thousand kuna, is a taxpayer. Article 3 if, in one year, more than 230 thousand kunas must be established by a company. What if he makes 50 thousand kunas or 30 in the following year, he'll shut down that company and then he'll form it again after three years when he's again over 230 thousand kunas. In the same article, the non-profit organisation carrying out the economic activity of renting or renting services in general should be aware that no association of our type does own any space that it could rent, mostly in 99% of cases, are premises or units of local self-government or...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73568	Thank you very much. Replication response, Ivan Shuker. My colleagues, make sure 13 replicas are on this exhibit either. Well, time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73569	... Thus, there was once an article in the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget that regulated all paid VAT purchased in firearms to return to fire companies from the state budget. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] So that was defined by law. And that's why I'm saying that this law has made nothing spectacular because other laws have all been settled but this article 33 wants to discipline those who clearly oppose certain moves that create ideological divisions that are fatal to the Croatian people, Croatian society and the Croatian state, and that is the fact. So, you give me one thing now, Dinamo actually entered the Champions League last year, with this basis he got 9 and some million euros. Which is why he's gonna have to start the League of Champions' Trade Company. Next year, Hajduk will enter and Hajduk will have to start the Champions League trade company and then he won't come in, he won't spend this money in a year, he'll pay the profit tax, and then who's going to share that profit? Well, isn't it logical that these coins are part of one system, from those youngest kids, from 8.9 years old, with how many they've already started training and all the employees at the club who have over a hundred in these big, big clubs, to be a common part? And there's no economic activity. After all, let's stop chemicalizing like this, and let's rewrite the provisions from any country that have longer experience and regulate it. And as for firefighters and similar services, I think it's just funny to push them into the same jumble with some who don't belong here, and especially here I mention social entrepreneurship, Croatia will run out of money from the EU...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73570	Ante Jerolimov, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73571	Comrade Shuker, you have asked a key question, to whom a message is sent by this law, and I would say that no message is being sent, but that all associations are being punished precisely for antagonism by one association of citizens and what is worse according to one religious institution, and that is the key and message of this law. It's about some kind of regulation, okay, transparency as if so far it wasn't all by law, as if it wasn't all order, as if it wasn't all transparent, so each association has its own assembly and which submits a financial report every year and on which work plans for next year, and those financed from the budget of local self-government units, are delivering a report to local self-government units on spent funds. Exactly 99% of these associations are examples of how something works and how something works in this country, the only thing that makes people happy and happy is working in these associations where they take their time off for the common good and work to preserve the tradition of culture and customs. But I'd like to ask you something, colleague Shucker, what's gonna happen to those associations, for example. The pensioners who have their own tea kitchen and where they play ballottes, the chess, the towel, the cherry, where they have organized di cut short their retirement days, often single days, and will they now, when they are retired, when they are an example of everyone else, how they socialize and live for the common good, will they, too, now make them start their own companies in their 70s or 80s, if they exceed these 230 thousand kunas and will they, as then, be called? The trade society of Croatian pensioners? How?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73572	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73573	That fellow Jerolimov, you still forgot to say that such a retirement club would have to have a fiscal cash register. What I want to say, and that's what I said on behalf of the club, so this law without Article 33 is completely acceptable to us, we can deal with some provisions one way or another, but you and your colleague Klaric and fellow Boric, and some other colleagues from some other clubs have opened up some issues that need to be resolved under those laws that are regulated by the establishment of certain associations. And then we'll be far better, far more transparent. Among other things, what you mentioned, it's not just the case of the pensioners who have this kind of club, they have this kind of club of theirs... and basically in many areas, in the rural part of the Republic, it's practically their only way of fun. So are sports clubs, all of them. Let's define it clearly, let's say it can be done that way and that way. Just as I mentioned how to reward, pay coaches and players in amateur sports, and already in such a way we will solve a series of problems, not that you have 5 or 6, actually 6 or 7 official persons and you are now paying them from about 50, 60 to 200 kuna, each you have to get confirmation that you paid him that there will be no games, so imagine what a great administration is, so spend more time on administration than practically on the game itself. Let's regulate that, this article 33 offers only ideological divisions, deepened ideological divisions in the Republic of Croatia. It may not have been the proposal's intention, but unfortunately he was so transferred, interpreted in public with a keen desire to show that so far in the country has been a major mess, and now suddenly order is being introduced. Unfortunately, since the introduction of the riot, we have entered into a major mess, and this best shows the situation in health care, and we will talk about it when the budget is rebalanced.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73574	Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73575	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Shuker, of course we disagree with the bill's proposal, and in your debate, there's really a lot to be said. We're here to witness certain colleagues commenting on associations and sports clubs, and at the same time I'm sure they've never been to a single game, let alone that they've acted on any duty at any amateur club. Of course, your discussion focused on article 33, which is truly unspeakable. We in HDZ certainly are not against the introduction of order, but we knew it before, and this order that is being introduced today is the best indicator of the situation in the economy and 380 or 400 thousand people unemployed. So if we've introduced that kind of order in these two years, where we are and where we're missing the results. I'm asking the question, so amateur clubs. In this way and with this law we destroy amateur sport, we question the sustainability of individual clubs, which are clubs that have incomes in amateurism over 230 thousand kunas in one year, and next year they may not have income at all, while they are asked to have accounting, to have employees and to ask questions not which way they will be paid? And by this law alone, we're going to destroy total amateurism, and basically we only have two or three clubs that are basically professional clubs, and this is everything else that's based on amateurism that we put into a position that just today people are wondering how it's going to work. I'm in favour of introducing order, but not in this difficult economic time when we don't have a way of working, let alone introducing extra taxes, especially in clubs that are amateur.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73576	Replication response, Ivan Shuker. I'm a colleague of Lucic's. A colleague of Jerolimov said everything before two minutes passed, it can be said in two minutes. ... /The Intruder doesn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73577	As a result, I have mentioned some activities that should be defined because we are still discussing this law for over three hours, let's say we do not know the answer to the question whether to transfer players and sell players economic activity or not. Let's say at this point someone tells me whether to sell players economic activity or not? If someone says it's not an economic activity then this article 233.more controversial practically for any sports collective, but if someone remembers tomorrow and says it's economic activity then the question in the economy is known to come up with some product you have investments from research, this, that, placed on the market, costs etc. Then practically every club from the moment the player entered his drive would have to open his personal chart and run all the financial costs. Tomorrow when his financial transfer opened he cost so much and so much, we made so much money on it. And now he's asking one basic question, and since the deputy minister is a famous sport friend, I think he'll be in the interest of getting rid of it, it's not logical to pay a profit tax, it's logical to pay a income tax if it's a living man, not a chair or something else. Therefore, if we had regulated that even the graces that are secured in the club have pension and health benefits to be denied 30% of any flat-rate costs, then the rest is paid 25%+ tax without the right to deductions, then let such a provision remain or be placed differently. But let it be made clear that the sales of players are not subject to Article 33, and then we will get to the point that this article 33 is totally excessive because we have it regulated through the Tax on Profits Act and then we have solved all the problems. Because I'm saying this second one, and with little corrections, they can and don't have to be controversial.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73578	Branko Box, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73579	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A fellow Shuker in his opening section refers to Article 33 you have shown that it is discipline of sports associations and churches. I think you've chosen the right expression to speak of discipline. My colleague Franjo was now talking about sports associations or amateurism. I absolutely agree with both you and them, if the second reading adopts such a bill that we will bring amateur sports to even lower branches than it is today. Amateur sport is important because of the number of people involved in these sports associations. So a large number of our small communities, speaking of municipalities and cities and from our personal experience, we also have mostly some sports associations or DVDs or I don't know a fireman. So that's a really big problem. And I would also like someone to have remembered by now in their debate, given that there have been a lot of donations, let's say by Soros of these last 20 and a few years, that they've done an analysis of what the associations have received, what that money was used for, whether to build this society or to decompose, I'm rather convinced of this second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73580	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73581	So you see fellow Boxtius, the Ministry of Finance, I think it was then the foreign inspectorate dared go into such one control and then we experienced a total salva attack media why and how we can do that to stop something from growing civil society, etc. But if things are clearly set up then there is no need to say that they will be disqualified. Simply the rules of the game are clear, you know what has to be done, you have to pay, these other taxes define it. However, this article 33 clearly points to who it is because if you sold a player in a small club this year, who knows if you will have such a player for the next 15 years, and you should start a company. Therefore, what are economic activities other than some social entrepreneurship that non-profit organisations have and that are considering that they are not in the VAT system have not themselves concluded that they need to start a company and that they will be easier to operate in such a way. I therefore believe that this article 33 should be eliminated and I think that this law will then, as it may be, with some minor exceptions, receive support from everyone. But this one with such a clumsy, dimmed Article 33 has no chance of getting the support of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73582	Ante Sanader, replica. You picked up the bat maybe you didn't mean to. Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73583	Thank you very much. Well, here you are, fellow Shuker, mentioning what many have been saying about the control of these funds being placed by local self-government or state resources. It was later said here that the other part that is being collected from other sources was already being controlled. I'm not talking about the big ones that obviously someone has a problem with, or maybe they don't, maybe they just want to create it. I'm talking about small ones, I'm talking about small associations that there are thousands in Croatia and I'm talking about associations that don't argue in their congregations but are discussing 10, 15, 20, kuna, 100 kuna, so to the last June. I was present at dozens and hundreds of such congregations where members of such associations had until the last June controlled what and how it was spent and where it went. And they're all there voluntarily. And from where we come straight, i.e. Not to us, but to anyone who casts doubt on these people? Are we saying that all these members of these organizations are willing to be thieves, that they're fooling around about doing something wrong? I would ask you as a man with experience in the work of the Minister of Finance to answer my question, do you think it is possible with the existing human capacities of the inspector to make increased supervision of the thousands of these associations that are all covered by this. And the other thing that interests me particularly is the aspect of the mayor of the Križevci, so we have social entrepreneurship, the Association of Persons with Disabilities Križevci has opened a chocolate store, hired a person with disabilities and, in your debate, I'm a little afraid of what awaits them in this future period. Their share isn't going to be spent on distribution, it's going to be development.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73584	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73585	Well, colleague Hrg, you actually hit the key, which was also the topic of the HDZ Club debate. So when you're talking, you just have to divide these non-profit associations into these very small ones that especially in rural areas have invaluable value because they bring people together. They are practically their entire social life because the annual assembly of cultural and artistic society, football club and firefighters is the main event in that place and they have an annual budget of several thousand kunas and not to skip the pensioners' association because they are now as active as they are lately, but their budget is several thousand kunas and surely this law is not tanging on them. And you said well, they're not going to cheat anyone, but they're asking a key question, but everyone has an instrument, you as mayor, if you suspect that some association in your city isn't doing some things well, you can send them budgetary surveillance. Just let him go check it out. However, the question arises what if budgetary supervision is sent. There was one budgetary surveillance that identified excessive borrowing and spending to a local self-government unit. You know what happened? Eat the donkey wolf. Therefore, there are institutions that control and record everything, and we need to know what we want to prevent. It is not only the purpose of financial control to carry out a repressive measure, sometimes it is necessary to assess whether this financial control costs more than it would possibly be, but when it is established that irregularities should be made public as a message to all those who make a mistake not to think of making such a mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73586	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73587	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So here's my colleague Shuker and this replica and answer confirm really that immeasurable contribution of associations, mainly in small rural areas, and you have made it clear about sports associations that contribute and develop a healthy spirit in a healthy body and many of our famous football players have played in rural meadows and have nothing to say in that part. Of course, cultural and artistic societies also so that there is what is more beautiful to preserve those of our values and that today in these difficulties of depression to sing and socialize and develop community. But it's especially on my heart because I come from the most fire-fighting county of the Koprivnica-Crission Fire Department, and in that part I see except what you were saying in this article 33, which sends a message, but I want to say that it's right in the fire department that it's going to do other than make a mess. First they'll do the termologically, now they'll have to call themselves if it's over because of course we're trying to strengthen quality, possibly a front-end vehicle that costs, of course, significant resources. The aggregates are also in floods, all costing and, of course, they'll exceed. And now it will be termologically called Croatian Voluntary Fire Department. I can't do it with each other, it's not going to work like that. And what I'm saying is that with this, these fire departments are going to get into trouble, of course she's going to have to have management and all the expensive, extra costs, in a year's time, no more capital equipment, no more, she's going to have to be gone, she's going to have to shut down. I want to say, in addition to the message these will be brought back to an unfavourable location of rural areas where the fire department is very important, very significant and important and for the preservation of property of course and functioning because the fire department contributes in all...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73588	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73589	Thank you very much. Comrade Milinkovic, here, take this flood situation. Who jumped first? Fire department. Who filled the most bags, helped people? Fire department. And now they'll probably get some kind of compensation for it, but compensation for the cost of everything expensive, and now they can only be some wise guy who should have taken care of those channels before, so on and so forth, just because they took some of his work because they were filling bags and he can say that they were engaged in economic activity because they were practically doing what he was supposed to do. So if you have such indetermination in the article, unfortunately, and something like that can happen, but when from your replica, from the replica of other colleagues, from the discussion and colleagues of Bubal and colleagues of Vuksic, then it turns out that the situation here is quite clear. So we are aware of who this law applies to, and we are also fully aware that this law is a possible punishment for those who manage to tell, in fact dare say something... with the fact that more colleagues I think Vuksic extended along with church and some sports collectives, added unions. Therefore, a clear message with such an undetermined article because such small ones, no one takes care of them, unless the local community takes care of them, will no one take care of them, nor will sports collectives. And these sports collectives and firefighters and cultural and artistic societies are the only ones who are practically still so much offered through the engagement of young people through these associations that they will remain where they were born and will not escape to the city and simply lose their dignity.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73590	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73591	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Well, fellow Shuker, it's good that your debate was followed by Deputy Lalovec, and he could actually hear from these exhibitions mostly colleagues from local administration units and self-government and their importance, in fact, which means cultural and artistic societies, which means voluntary fire companies, although 5% of the income tax must be allocated to them who actually have no other income. It was a flood case here now, but in Dalmatia it must have been a case of fires during the season. You didn't mention hunting societies that are financed exclusively from their membership fees, which will actually be with them, but they certainly won't look kindly at this. But you mentioned among other things the religious association actually all the confesions and parish offices that are more than 4,000 in the Republic of Croatia, ignoring their role, and you said it very well, is one social injustice, especially when we know not about the 20s we heard here today in the debates, but these are thousands of volunteers who work in these religious associations and parish offices on drug issues, drug withdrawals, socially endangered families, persons with disabilities, caritative services, housing for the homeless, bread of old and powerless etc. etc. So maybe it's not good to generalize today, and otherwise it's never good to generalize. Of course, among those associations there are those who abuse it. But I think these are individual cases. But it should actually be remembered that the selective justice that the Government of this bill actually wants to carry out is worse than any injustice and the doing of this government can have, and it will certainly have more damage than benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73592	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73593	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So, fellow Babic, you may have mentioned an association where the most obvious thing is from an association that brings together citizens and associations involved in economic activity. Because you have hunting societies that have fallen off, a hunting association that sees hunting as a practical protection of nature, fired by those who are superfluous. So, keeping some balance. And you have those where there were two, three individuals under the auspices of a hunter's society, rented a hunting ground and engaged in commercial hunting. So it's a purely commercial activity. But then the Ministry of Agriculture and County, when they discuss these competitions, would have to take care of who's renting the hunting grounds. Once it is leased by a hunting company that precisely operates in the regulations and in its statutes, and the latter is when it is purchased by one or two individuals who have a clear purpose of bringing their business partners there, that hunting ground serves them in some economic activity. But then there can't be an association. He needs to be clearly recognized and told, no, you're not an association. You're a company. But then he is no place in this law again, and in this article 33 I repeat it again, it is a dim intention of some to discipline themselves if they jump out of what the government thinks is nice about themselves that they are beautiful, beautiful and smart and that they have introduced order. And unfortunately, it's all the other way around, and when someone says the Emperor is naked, here's his inspection, here's his application, or I don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73594	Ante Kulusic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73595	A fellow Shuker, turns out at the end listening to this debate for 3 hours that non-profit associations are the biggest problem of the Croatian state, church and two football clubs. We had a lecture here from his colleague Jelusic, so he went away and he easily insulted us about the transparency and introduction of order. Well, there's no one who's not up for the introduction of order, but not in a way like this what happened these 27 months, what my colleague Bubalo said, and then we see how a transparently suspended tax returns to the press, so how the land re-use is done, so it makes 24 million kunas transparently. So credit is raised through HBOR transparently, so Croatia's insurance is sold where transparent advisors are sold to 54 million kuna, and in advance they knew who would buy Croatia's insurance. And so we came transparently to 400,000 unemployed. It's probably only in a non-transparent way, because given all those who have been deleted from the Employment Service, it would probably be even more. And we always get rid of the problem that bothers the citizens of Croatia, and we fight and argue about associations. There is no one in this House who is not to introduce order. And in the end, it will turn out that the birds' association is the biggest problem of the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73596	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73597	Thank you very much. My colleague Kulušić, from this replica of yours only, remains to conclude that it is obvious that the establishment of the Association for Transparency and Publicity of the Kukuriku Coalition is at hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73598	Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73599	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Shuker, you have touched many times in your discussions with Dinamo, so you have touched Hajduk. So then I tell you to remind you that Hajduk is a sports stock company and that he works according to other laws and pays if all that is required under the law is determined, that also the Split Workers' Football Club is a sports stock company like Osijek, Rijeka and Istria and that all of them are well under the law of 33, article 33, in that they say that they bring them into an equal position with Dinam in terms of law enforcement and competitiveness when we speak and control it in real terms by looking at non-profit organisations to Dinam, rather than essentially a profit organization. And I'm sure this law can put a lot more order into professional sport. What you have touched is that two to three thousand viewers cannot be gathered at the game I will tell you that according to official data in 24 cars, 12 home games Croatian football players Hajduk Split had 11000 viewers on average, or a third of the total viewers in 24 cars, which means that not all the figures you said were correct. But it points out that a sports stock company and a work under the Law on Commercial Society can in a certain way be successful in professional sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73600	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73601	Comrade Djurovic, when you talk about something, then you need to know how some things have happened. So, if someone had not used a similar article in 33 in this only other law invented a 300 - and - a - million kuna - long Hajduk and another million kuna, both Osijek and Istria would never have transformed Hajduk into what had been transformed. So the state transferred its claims to the city and then the city did what it did. So let's not distort the facts, because no one here in the debate is in the interest of distorting the fact. I am happy that the Splits have given their support to Hajduk, who is on his feet. Unfortunately, although he has great young players. However, Dinamo is in another situation, Dinamo is in the league of champions, gets up to 9 million and can exist with it. Now they've sold little Halilovic for the money they sold, you've unfortunately sold some of Hajduk's stars for a couple of tens of thousands of euros. And who's to blame? But that's a bigger story. But let's not have some things that simply have a background to turn in a different way. The river solved it differently, a private sponsor came and raised the club. And thank God he's picking it up. Osijek now solves it in a different way. Is this the best Osijek's doing right now? That's a question. That'll show time. Istra handled it in her own way. Cibalia is unfortunately in the second league, Varazdin is more practically gone. Therefore, we can turn the story as much as we want but don't tell a colleague Gjurkovic, you can't attack one person for crime on the one hand, and on the other hand in sports speak wonderfully and wonderfully because you know what it is and how it is. Therefore, let us not mix pears and apples because I repeat this law without this Article 33 is more or less acceptable to all. This article 33 leads us into insecure waters and leads us to the fact that sports clubs with several hundred million kunas that have never been seen will again appear. Because if Hajduk had the money to account for 230 million and 240 million taxes, Hajduk would play the Champions League today and be at least among the first four, just like Dinamo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73602	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73603	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, you were talking about all the shortcomings of this law, the most about Article 33, which regulates what it is and when it must be transformed into a share i.e. in d.o.o. What is economic activity in terms of this law? This is a question of all the questions that should be defined in this law and clearly state what an economic activity that crosses over 230 thousand kunas is. That it's a trade of goods, services on the market, sales. This must all be defined in the law in order to know what this law is all about. Associations as non-profit organisations shall be transparently funded through their programmes, whether social, whether those providing socially vulnerable categories of services that they need most and clearly and clearly under today's regulation submit reports to both financial institutions and the State Audit and those providing them with funds. Whether they are local units, whether they are regional, whether the ministry is in competition, whether they are some banks, whether European funds are in the future all looking for reports that the funds have been spent and must be clearly presented. This law, without this Article 33 or a clear definition of which Article 33 applies, has certainly been prescribed so far, in which everything is actually defined through the articles of the Regulation. It all says what an association and a non-profit organization should deliver through the year, what reports, what patterns, with what completeness. It is therefore Article 33 that introduces confusion both with GONG and with associations dealing with disability and helping disabled persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73604	Thank you very much. Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73605	Thank you very much. counterpart Djakic, I think that the Ministry of Finance would be most fortunate if the minister clearly defined in sport the organisational form of first league, second league, third league clubs, if the line was clearly drawn between professionalism, semi-professionalism and amateurism. And then we wouldn't be discussing this at all. Why? So because there are so many people present, first of all I'm talking about children who are present in these clubs that it just needs to be regulated by some other law and then the financial business of these associations actually clubs or what they're going to be called will be no problem. But the key problem of this Article 33 is that it is an economic activity in non-profit organisations. You just have to say it, and if you don't exactly draw it, then you get in trouble. So if someone says they want to make order in sports, then that should be defined by the Sport Act. If he doesn't know how he's gonna handle it in a tax matter, then let him deal with it with the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of Finance will regulate it in its own way. And we're not doing anything here, convincing each other that it's okay here, and it's not okay, and everyone's just patching up as much as they can keep up the club because that club just needs to exist. Well, it would be a tragedy for Croatia if Hajduk fell apart. It would be a tragedy for Croatia, historically watching. And the message of these 11,000 watchers at Hajduk's matches is a sign that they want to support it. Just as it is a tragedy for Zagreb that Dinam is gone, for Osijek to have no Osijek. So, what are we talking about? Well, at the end of the day, sport is what Croatia recommended to the world. So don't forget the late Drazen Petrovic and Stojko Vrankovic as they were in '91. Standing in front of the UN. At the time, the late Drazen was a name, he knew and many did not know about Croatia. Or today, come anywhere in the world when you see a gambling uniform you know who that applies to. And now we're talking about the teams that did it? In a way like this? It's not just correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73606	Thank you very much. Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73607	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's before and a break I'd just like to take a quick look at this last debate, but in the final report, I'm going to say actually my opinion on what you've been saying so far at least in this part. The question also opened here as some conspiracy theory. Government conspiracy theory against individual groups. I must admit, I greatly respect my colleague Shucker, and I know that he must in one part and score political but related to this article 33rd and economic activities. So here in my opening speech I put myself in doubt, personally, whether or not you need a company? I said I don't know and even said that no more than that. That's what I said in the opening part. Here, when we talk about determining economic activity, nothing new happens than what is currently under the applicable Tax on Profits Act, absolutely nothing. Therefore, this Article 33, and the establishment of economic activity, exists today and non-profit organisations that carry out the economic activity defined by the Tax on Profits Act, clearly states that if the tax administration finds this to be a solution and that part enters the profit tax system. And there's nothing changing about what's on the market right now. Is this the only thing about article 33 whether or not it's a company? Why did we go with the company? Therefore, as I also told you in the opening work when we tried and these were in the debate we received such suggestions that such proposals exist in other countries and then I told you that in Hungary, for example. 10% of total revenues or 40,000 euros also exist in the company. When we talk about the Czech Republic, 11 thousand euros, we talk about Croatia 30, almost 31 thousand euros, we talk about Slovakia, we talk about France, we talk about Germany, some experiences of Western countries that have tried to regulate that part of the area whether or not we need to talk about it, just about the system of income tax where our system, the tax system is in line with the EU directives and with them and with us if they move into the system are profit taxes and I don't think it should be, creating that this law is targeted against certain groups, is not. If we've taken on something that's done in other countries around this company where we've been given an example that should solve the issue, I'm personally saying, and I agree, maybe yes, maybe not, maybe not anymore. We agree, we can throw out, but if he's in a profit tax system like that, because now the tax administration over 2,000 non-profit organisations performing economic activity are in the profit tax system and paying the profit tax. So that's what he's doing today. If someone has a tax administration, there it defines that economic activity, it defines economic activity because it is related whether someone is self-sustaining and self-sustaining. About that, so the system that already exists, that nothing in this thing right now is revolutionaryly changing, nothing, absolutely nothing, just the questions of a company that and not what I say personally once again, maybe I, personally say no, we've been looking at some examples in Europe, then they solve it like this, someone solves it like that. So I wouldn't want this debate to go according to some theories of the conspiracy of certain individuals, against certain groups because it isn't, it is already today, so please and agree, I am both in conversation and with the tax administration when we spoke about what economic activity is, defining, can we define it by some of the activities that existed on the market. It is very hard to believe in this work, and with the tax administration to come up with some kind of solution whether something is or something is not an economic activity, it is difficult to bring. If we say that I don't know the cafes or some part that you have open to the market and that I can bring externally probably and I can, but if it's internal then it's not, so already there is, so there's no difference between what's in the tax system or not, just a matter of trade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73608	Dragan the Black Replicator.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73609	Thank you. Well, it's clear to us that the order is to be introduced, but we, I'm a member of the same association to say the smaller ones, and we see that this is a very big problem for us who are in these associations and that by law, by introducing order amongst these things, as we say, we always put Dinamo there, etc., we end up always getting out the thick end. I'll tell you that the big problem is let's say that I'm asking both in this reading and until the second reading to make some relief for associations since associations don't have the means simply to pay to tell them who's going to do their accounting services, etc. So let's say one of the strokes was also this that finally the inspections came out that the associations were selling as you know tickets, drinks to some of their members, etc., of which they might have lived and now people got tickets. No one will ever be president of the association again, the associations are disbanded and the big ones will find a way around it anyway. I know that you are not, that your task is not so easy and that you certainly need to discuss this article 33, but there are other things to be warned about. There may be some other forms of association that will bridge this, make new associations, or say the Law on Associations says that it is possible to exist associations that have no legal personality, that is, among other things, another way for those who want to find a way around it, bypass it, and these little ones will stop acting. I don't think that's the point of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73610	The answer to Boris Lalovec's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73611	Thank you very much. So I don't know if you read the law when you're talking about the kid? Did you read it? As far as they've been leading it, when we're talking about the little ones who ran accounting, we're now raising that threshold, so by now over 100,000 kunas have had to run double accounting, now they don't need it. Now it's up to 230 thousand kunas, they're relieved, they're relieved from 100 to 230 thousand kuna, they're relieved. And you're questions about funding are generally solved by other laws, as has been said here by the Law on Associations and other laws that they come up with, but as far as accounting is concerned, accounting which is the basis of this law has been facilitated from 100 to 230 thousand, it has raised their threshold, simpler transactions, simpler business books, simpler things. So what you're saying applies to another law. This law simplifies accounting for small associations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73612	Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73613	Mr. Lalovec, if you had reacted more clearly than what was discussed when the inscriptions appeared, then the debate would probably not be like this today and you would clearly say that this article 33 does not need us, so that's on the point. The second thing, this lift from 100 to 230 has a certain connection and with the border on the VAT system, therefore they were probably guided by this analogy, but I think that you from this debate today have come up with a few things that are very important. And that's that they have to solve the problem and the definition in sport, which is professional, which is semi-professional, what is amateur sport? And that if he gets rid of the Sport Act, then we won't argue here anymore and convince each other, depending on who's rooting for which club that's good or bad. So, that's the point of the whole story, and I think from this debate, so we can definitely conclude that Article 33 is too high because simply when you solve some things, and that's sport and some other stuff with the parent law, lex specialis law, then you won't have any more needs for this and the other thing, it's logical that certain relations between the Catholic church and the state should be solved in bilateral discussions and then it goes through the legislative framework. Any announcement that this or what will happen at times like this when, unfortunately, these divisions of ideological events occur in Croatia, lead us in the opposite direction. But I think that from today's debate you've clearly got three, four things to define because I repeat this law without Article 33, it's completely acceptable to us, it's just an upgrade to something we had, maybe to define more clearly that it controls tax administration and budget supervision, that complaints have and to solve them second degree if it's done by the tax administration and you've practically solved all the problems. But this, if you don't resolve the status of sports clubs, if you don't resolve the status of churches, some activities in churches, not funerals, confessions, etc., but some others, simply this article 33 opens up the possibility of such discussions being held.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73614	The answer to Boris Lalovec's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73615	Thank you very much. Well, unfortunately, I have to say that I agree with you, I would like that tone to be when you've been leading and where these last half-hours have been going in this context, not the context of some kind of conspiracy and some of the things you've said you've actually taken over from the media. I speak very clearly all the time in this House, and that's why I'm glad and I'm writing everything you've actually said and I'm trying to be constructive in that part. I agree, the law on sports needs to get rid of these things and then it would be much easier to talk. So now we've opened up a lot of these problems from this law that come to us in a number of sectors, parts of civil society and sports and associations, so through this law there's an open question, and we just said we're expanding that part of the regulation and about the publication and for this article 33. I agree with you here and I have nothing to add. However, I find it difficult to defend something when I say that we are going, that we are against some, that God or church or some other organizations, which is not true, which is not really true, and it is not the place in that part if we are talking about such an important law that we have to deal with whether this is it or not. I agree that now we've put down the ball and we're talking about concrete problems and I thank you here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73616	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73617	Dear Deputy Minister, one of the main problems is that all these organisations are misclassified, many of them do not belong to associations and many of them do not belong to non-profit associations, we have already established. This was to be dealt with by many other laws, such as the Law on Sports, here it is. We're here, we're doing everything on a partial basis. I'll go back to the union. You said one sentence, the law wasn't targeted against a group of certain ones, it wasn't. As soon as he puts them in the same basket, he's against some groups because in order for you to solve what a fellow Montenegrin said, you're drowning small ones. The International Labour Organisation Convention, number 87, makes it clear that it is against the union's annual financial report. For what? It says this directly encourages the weakening of the negotiating and general power of the union. You got it, you didn't appreciate it. Read, you will see how arranged systems are in other countries and what context they put unions in. What my colleagues were talking about earlier, about amateur sports, I completely agree, but before one of my colleagues said that we should distinguish different drives in professional clubs, I'm talking about it, so it was unclear, that pioneer and youth schools in some professional club, that I'm not talking now, any professional club should be treated differently, not, they're the same part of the professional drive. The second you're amateur plus sports clubs, that's the difference. The Dinam pioneer club is just the basis for the club's professionalism, and no professional club has any. Look at how arranged clubs are out there, how they're arranged, sure you won't, find the distinction that one big club on the international stage doesn't organize that one part is semiprofessional, one is amateur, and the third is professional.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73618	Thank you. Replication response, Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73619	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, yes, I was, too, and I received colleagues from the union, and we discussed it, and I also said my personal opinion, just like I said here today about this article in 33, when they argued that part of their problem, public publication, and that's certainly, I accepted that we can talk about it and that we'll see at all how we'll get to the second reading, if that part will try to correct itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73620	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73621	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here, Mr. Deputy, it's simple to resolve this article, it's written by associations and some suggestions that have come that must be clearly defined in one article with several items of what should be, and that would make it possible for non-profit organisations to carry out economic activity and, to that end, to have the property, in accordance with the law, the statute or rules in the case of cooperatives. Under economic activity, it is clear what the meaning of this law should mean that it is sales, exchange of goods, services on the market, market conditions in order to achieve surplus revenues. Put it in the law and it'll be clear. The economic activity of a non-profit organisation must not be carried out for the purpose of obtaining profits for its members or third parties, and this is also clear, although, in the exercise of economic activity, a non-profit organisation achieves excess income over expenditure, it must be used solely in accordance with the Statute and the financial plan to achieve the objectives set out in the Statute and non-profit organisations. Finally, the non-profit organisation carrying out its economic activity is obliged to submit an additional annual income report, expenditure incurred by economic activity with the specification of the allocation of surplus income in accordance with the statutes of the annual financial plan of the non-profit organisation. And there's the end of the story, and it's all clear in Article 33. Add one head, one article with these items, and everyone will be pleased there will be no controversy or challenge.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73622	The answer to Boris Lalovec's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73623	Thank you. Well, I have to say, then maybe he'll accept your remarks, not Mr. Shucker's. Just so we know if we're going to leave or not, if you said we're going to add that article now, we can. If we're gonna throw him out, we can. Then you don't need this. So I say come from the same club different suggestions but thank you for the proposal and I think it would be much clearer then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73624	Thank you very much. Now we're going to take a break by 3:00. I ask you at 15.20 to keep us as high as possible in the hall as announced. Thank you very much. It's 13:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73625	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] It's the HSU Club and the esteemed colleague, Zeljko Schamper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73626	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The current Accounting Regulation in non-profit organisations lists various associations and their alliances, foundations, foundations, foundations, political parties, chambers, trade unions, religious and other communities, as well as all other legal entities whose main objective is not to acquire profits or profits and which are entered in the Register of non-profit organisations run by the Ministry of Finance. Until now, the full accounting of non-profit organisations has been prescribed by the accounting Regulation of non-profit organisations to which the business books, accounting organisation, asset list and liabilities, income and expenditure, financial reporting and all other areas relating to the management of the accounting of such organisations. Given that the Accounting Regulation has prescribed a narrow area of accounting management, for a long time, as the Proposer says, there is a need for a broader legislative framework that would also regulate the system of planning and programming, making financial plans, implementing them, and ultimately not less important, reporting on complete business. The need for the application of the principle of public and transparency with a specific focus on the source of funding has also been identified and the most important thing is how and what the financial resources collected are spent on. In particular, this relates to the finances that such associations receive from public sources, the state budget or units of local and regional administrations. This law was expected to introduce a public announcement of financial reports by non-profit organisations which were not available all these years, and we see that, for example, this was done in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. This bill creates the necessary framework for full financial operations, as well as for all elements of the accounting system of non-profit organisations. This law is the basis for sound financial operations, with the principle of public transparency and control, and all in order to realise what is causing the non-profit organisation to be established. In realising the objectives, the governance structure is obliged to plan and organise a business that guarantees successful management and the risks that occur in each business. This includes managing responsibility in planning and programming, drawing up financial plans and their implementation, accounting management, control and ultimately reporting. In particular, attention should be paid to control because there are examples and internal audit cannot find a way out of the maze, as we have seen recently in the HRT report. The system must ensure business without loss, inadequate spending of financial resources, and as it can often happen, from possible fraud and illegal actions. In a report in the public debate, I also observed... some associations such as trade unions and employers who oppose the principles of the public and transparency of their business, in particular financial resources and their spending, i.e. their presentation to the public. Today, a colleague, Vuksic, spoke about the volunteering of union membership and their problems. A lot of objections were made to the draft law relating to the special treatment of religious communities and to the part that the church collects as cash, which refers to family gifts, parishioners' charity, funeral fees, weddings, baptisms, or house blessings, donations to rebuild churches. For that part of the income, the care of parishes is run by the economic and social councils or parish caritas who take care of receipts from the believers, but also by controlling the spending of these funds, where the believers at the end of the year are familiar with that part of the business. Of course, it comes from a state or local budget that leads to this law. This law also seeks to introduce order in non-profit operations that must be based on the principle of sound financial management and control of such operations, and ultimately in an appropriate way to the public and transparency. The most important thing is whether these funds are spent on achieving the objectives for which an association is established. There were also comments on the draft law in defining the economic activity and over-authority of taxpayers who, in each case, determine what is fundamental and what is economic activity, which can also lead to legal uncertainty. However, the legislator explains the dilemma that the profit tax law stipulates that all of these non-profit organisations are not bonds of profit tax as long as they carry out that activity for which they are exempt from paying the income tax. I hope the group includes political parties and retirement associations, but I'm not sure that's true for professional clubs that sell their product, football players, other athletes for big money. In such cases, the rules of the Tax on Profits Act are activated because otherwise, non-payment of taxes would result in unwarranted benefits on the market. As a result, the tax administration will conclude with this solution that those organisations are taxpayers of profit tax. In this respect, the novelty, i.e.... of the regulation on the establishment of a company for those organisations that achieved the economic activity of 230 thousand kuna and more revenue in the previous year. Such problems with profits and tax payments generally do not have 99% of pension societies that barely survive the donations of local communities and membership fees of their members, and are not engaged in economic activities but in excursions, wood acquisition and cultural sports activities. The law provides for a full monitoring of the statistics of all non-profit organisations, yet adjusted to the level of income and the value of their assets. Due to these parameters, part of non-profit organisations will only be able to run simple accounting, but will not be released from the obligation to draw up annual financial reports while others will run double accounting with the obligation to draw up quarterly reports. In this debate, we must not put all associations in the same basket. I'm sure most associations are doing well, even perfectly in accordance with the current accounting regulation, and this law will probably make those associations work in accordance with the law. I also think that those inactive associations, and there are about 50% of them, should be deleted from the register of non-profit organisations. Finally, what was not now provided for by the Accounting Regulation, and this law also provides for infringements. New legal solutions will also systematically regulate the issue of violations if a non-profit organisation does so contrary to the provisions of this law. In the end, the HSU Club will support this law with certain and adopted... after this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73627	I'd like to thank the representative of the HSU Club, the Iron Shemper. We have one replica, dear Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73628	Dear colleague Schamper, with a lot of things you've said I agree, however, in order not to get the wrong impression you said that probably 99% of the Association of Livers and barely survive. It's probably true, now as many of them barely survive, it would be possible to talk about it, but whether they live in abundance or barely survive, as far as this law is concerned, nothing will happen to them, so even though they have little money and if they have money and if that money came from their regular activities, for what they're founded for, that part won't be tax-treated. Tax treatment is only the part, and it does not matter how small it can be, and it can be very large if it comes from economic activity. Since most associations are therefore founded to deal with their activities,... so if it is humanitarian, humanitarian, if it is social, social, church-religious, etc., so for that part of their activity, no matter how much income, it can be millions of dollars, it is not subject to profit tax, therefore, in that sense, associations should not be divided into whether they have a little or a lot of money and then look at them through taxation rather than whether they are carrying out economic activity or not. Those who do not carry out economic activity, no matter how much money they make, how much income they generate, will not be treated, not by this law which does not normally treat it at all, but also by the Tax on Profits which treat and any economic activity, regardless of who works, the company, the crafts or associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73629	The replica matches the esteemed Zeljko Schamper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73630	Dear colleague, I often find myself in retirement associations across all our Croatian counties, and I know well how many of their opportunities are, that is, how many cities and counties give donations to retirement associations. These 99% I think it is true, that 1% refers to fees and donations in large cities where it is likely, and I know that there are these donations and over a million kunas. Of course, I hope that the tax administration will not make such solutions where such associations should pay even more taxes, that they are declared to be engaged in economic activities because they care about the social standard of pensioners as regards the organisation of excursions and certain purchases, sugar, wood for better status of these pensioners. That's why I don't think we're going to meet in that group and that the tax administration won't declare any association involved in economic activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73631	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, we're going to stop working a little bit now because every moment we expect His Excellency Mr. Jean Pierre-Bell, President of the Senate of the French Republic to enter the hall. Give it up. We are now continuing our regular work. I call upon my esteemed colleague, Mila Horvat, to speak to us on behalf of the SDSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73633	I thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues. So, I'll say, our views and our views on this amendment, that is, on the proposal of the Financial Business and Accounting Act of non-profit organisations. In fact, we are perfectly clear by listening to these discussions today that have been held all day that there are different views on the key things of this law, which is how to control certain financial behaviours of a part of non-profit associations. So we don't have that dilemma. We think that the principles of sound financial management should in any case be controlled by the financial operations of non-profit organisations. Also on the principle of what is already said to the public, we think it is good to, that there is a obligation to publish public reports through the register of non-profit organisations. After all, any spending of public money is also subject to public information, i.e. you must know where taxpayers' money is spent, these are unquestionable things. However, we here have certain spare thoughts or reserved in terms of the very effect or implementation of this law in relation to that other part of the association, the smaller associations that have no chance of being, of having some profitable elements in their work. I'll say it, a few of our dilemmas. What is important here to say, so Article 2 is unequivocally, Article 2 of this law is undoubtedly stated to whom this law applies. This law, as defined in paragraph 1 of Article 2, definitely applies to all associations and there are no reserves there. They're even listed. Therefore, the proposer also said that this part of the financial regulations would apply to the third category of users. We do not see it here and I repeat by correct interpretation of this Article 2 we have the impression that it applies absolutely to all associations. What's important to us here is to point out. So, under the name of non-profit in Croatia, the association gathered quite a charming society in the sphere. We here have in this society a civil society organization that deals with the protection of human rights, health to voluntary fire companies, churches, football clubs and whatnot. That is why we think that this concept of associations as set up under the Law on Associations should, in principle, be changed from the roots. This matter should be set differently in the very Law on Associations should make a certain distinction between all these associations or at least by certain criteria define them. So these must be criteria for us to have a functional character rather than a financial character because if we had defined it by the functional character criterion, if we had sorted them, defined them, then today we would have a different, different relationship to these financial norms that apply to these associations. So, we wouldn't have together, and we wouldn't ask the same treatment of certain organizations dealing with humanitarian work and, as we've already said, certain football clubs that have a chance to create through that association and a certain extra profit. The second thing that we think should be regulated by this bill is the fact that it is here, that is to say, it is also said that there is insufficient control of the work of the associations and that this legal text will increase the control of the work of the associations. We say it's not like that, and so far they're profitable, and so far, non-profit organisations have the obligation to justify every single donation they've ever used. Transparently and publicly announced their donations, which was a prerequisite for reapplicating or seeking some new donation from their donor for the next year, which was quite a logical thing and it was common behavior. Likewise, those who made donations from the budget of the local self-government units, both regional and regional, were obliged to submit reports on the financial allocations and subject to control within those units of local self-government. They also had their organs, had their congregations to verify and accept these reports, and then send them back to the budget for the local self - administrations next year. Therefore, it is quite sufficient and a corrective and control mechanism for the work of financial operations of the associations and we cannot say that this control of the work of the associations before this law did not exist. We also think that this definition is given to reading the increased responsibility of leaders of these non-profit associations. So, we have a whole series of new obligations through Articles 4, 9, 11, 31, a whole series of obligations and responsibilities, new obligations, new responsibilities of these leaders of non-profit associations, so we put them in an equal position by some of their obligations but almost in the same position as the directors or leaders of some serious companies. I'm talking about accounting regulations and sanctions stemming from the implementation of these accounting regulations, and then the question is, how do we expect to get an enthusiasm or volunteer work at the head of these certain associations, and the man here is obliged to have obligations that can be made later in criminal provisions, in violation provisions, we see that the possibility of sanctioning the financial punishment of certain failures of these leaders is very large, so that's the thing that needs to be taken into account here. There were many speeches about the most important article of this law, which is Article 33. Here in this article is a definition of the census that requires the association to set up a company so that it can do business if, therefore, this census here is determined by 230 thousand kuna. We ask the first question, why exactly 230 thousand kuna? So, what's the mathematical model, the calculation by which there's this amount, and let's see what goes into that structure, we haven't defined what goes into that census structure of 230 thousand kuna. In practice, it would mean this to us, we said that all associations here are subject to this law. Does this mean that the Serbian Orthodox Church that sells candles, sells calendars, sells icons and other relics, etc. and achieves income and it is possible to make income through that 230 thousand kuna censorship, will it have to start a company to do so? And will you have to set up a trading company uniquely for the entire SPC, will for the eparchy at the level of three, four counties, will they for... So these are now practically the dilemmas that come from this law and we don't see that it's going to be any better, an improvement than the previous solution. Similarly, as regards minority activities, i.e. associations that have certain, issue certain newsletters with minority content, if they come out to the market or make some revenue, whether they will have to have a commercial, specially formed company in order to do so if they achieve a censorship of more than 230 thousand kuna. Whether KUDs, sports companies of amateurs will also have to build companies, set up if they make tickets, we mentioned cafes or other revenues that I can't remember right now, which are happening in life. So, we think there's some kind of solution here. We calculated that the census was actually translated into income per day, about 650 kuna. So whoever makes over 650 kuna a day, that sea, can no longer be an association, must be a company. So we don't mind the idea of putting this thing under control, but we think that censorship should be much bigger if we want to protect smaller associations, if we want to protect the amateurism and enthusiasm of these associations, that censorship has to be at least double that if not triple that. So, let's start a company that has a traffic of half a million kuna, a million kuna, which is quite logical that it then works through the form of a company. Everything below that, and especially these 230 thousand for us, raises the fundamental function of the organizations, which is their volunteerism and enthusiasm, as I said. Here I will also mention Article 6 which has missed and is not interested in the debate, but we have one suggestion. She's a suggestion for now. She'll probably be prepared as an amendment in the second reading. It is said here that non-profit organisations that make funds from the state budget and the budget of the unit of local and regional self-government are obliged to submit a report to that competent authority. We think that another sentence should be added, which would read "to those institutions that grant state budget funds, to submit at their request a report on the spending of budget funds". What exactly does that mean? We have a situation that we have a Council for National Minorities which is an institution of the state and through which the largest number of associations of members of national minorities realizes their projects and programmes. According to that definition of your existing proposal, they would not have the obligation to submit a financial report to the Council for National Minorities but rather not to know who. Therefore, in order to specify this matter, we ask that the provision of Article 6, so paragraph 1, be completed with this clearer definition. And finally here I would just say that some serious associations like GONG have had their own vision of this law and have made certain remarks on this law so that they feel that non-profit organisations that make such income are no longer non-profit organisations, that they come out of this character of non-profitability, so that the meaning of associations is lost. That this fact of profitability is already regulated by the Law on Profit Tax, that this also brings the meaning of non-profit organisations, raises the question of how this will reflect the development of social entrepreneurship specifically on the consumption of EU funds, etc., etc. And I think these remarks are very serious, the remarks that no matter what comes from GONG should be practically discussed. And the last thing I said was that in the transitional and final provisions of Article 46 of the very high fine, there are as many as 500 thousand kunas for an association that violates one part of it, once in its conduct of these 24 financial business provisions. Of course, that the large associations that have certain services that are already doing this and are monitoring it will not be hit by such a harsh criminal sanction, that it will be a very big surprise for ordinary small associations that we are now making them behave the same as these organized and sanctioned them in some way as they are, and they are not aware or ready to deal with these things. Therefore, a warning to both CUDs and hunting societies and beekeepers' associations, and I don't know who these are all very restrictive criminal sanctions waiting for them if this is definitely adopted this way. So this is the first reading, we support this text in the first reading, and for the second reading there will be more amendments prepared.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73634	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First came the honorary Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73635	Thank you very much. Well, you've well warned your colleague Horvat about Article 46 where it's about fines because there's a question of how many of these 50 thousand associations have a total income of more than 30 or 40 thousand kuna, and we've listed here a fine of 5 thousand to 500 thousand kuna if they violate these 24 provisions of this law. Now, given that range between 5 and 500 thousand kunas, that ratio is 1:100, then at least in these penalties, it should be stated in a certain way that the penalty will be determined in accordance with the total turnover or by the number of broken points. However, fines are very interesting, that is, the 2nd fine of between 5 and 20 thousand kunas will punish the infringement referred to in Article 1 of the law of the non-profit organisation. Less or less, these are all volunteer functions, and when we take especially these rural areas where the functioning of social life associations is very important, the question is how many presidents of these associations pay 5,000 kuna a month. And now someone's going to rip him off a fine of 20 thousand kunas or another thing when they see these criminal provisions who's going to accept the functions of volunteering to do what the wire of money would say to the association and that eventually someone who runs his accounting because not everyone has to know the finances, doesn't take one form and he's being punished for, say, 5, 7 or 10 thousand kunas. So this speaks of one disproportionateity, just as you have spoken about Article 6 because in Article 6, what is the law that is much stronger to say by force than this is the Budget Law defined that those who receive funds from the budget must do according to who gave it these funds. So these are three provisions, we're all more or less focused on Article 33 because it's the most controversial and eventually we get We're all at the club's memo of all religious communities, and I'm sorry. [[Intruder: Time.]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73636	The answer to the line of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73637	I'd like to thank my colleague Shuker. Therefore, it is clear to me that the applicant's intention to warn or sanction sanctions prevents certain behaviours that do not comply with this law in the context of the implementation of the accounting and accounting rules laid down here. However, this applies to companies, and in no way does such a high sanction apply to prevention, behaviour of ordinary small associations. And that's not good, and in that sense, I wanted to warn you, and I think there's a certain degree of sanctions to be done, to tie it to some real size in the work of these associations. Also, the fine of 20 thousand kuna for the leaders of these associations is very detimulative, and I'm afraid that when people hear that such sanctions are possible for something that they can be wrong with good intentions, I'm afraid we'll lose interest in running these associations in small areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73638	New replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73639	Dear fellow Horvat, if I understand correctly, you said in your debate that if a non-profit organisation achieves income greater with its economic or economic activity to lose the status of a non-profit organisation, the law does not say so. The law states a non-profit organisation, that is, Article 33(3). "The non-profit organisation is which has achieved 230 thousand kunas of economic activity and more income in one year is responsible for the activity it deals with," business activity, so that people do not often understand here that after 230 thousand kunas, this is no longer a non-profit organisation but is not an activity that should be established under this proposal. The non-profit organisation continues to retain the characteristics of a non-profit organisation and is engaged. Only if the non-profit organization is "the only goal of earning", and I think we said it wasn't then, before we talked about it are what Mr. Bubalo used to say to the inn, cafes that were registered as non-profit organisations for their members, and in fact dealing with it have a cafe and a non-loyal conference are some others. We need to know that then we lose jobs because that's what they say is sold on a football beer court that's cheaper than a nearby bar, a restaurant, a restaurant where there are employees of people who might put a key in a lock because someone under more favourable conditions has the right to shop.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73640	The replica matches Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73641	Thank you. In any case, it's as formally legal as you say. They continue to retain the status of a non-profit organisation and formally form a business company. But essentially are they really a non-profit organization if tomorrow they will through some form of organization that controls with all their elements manage it and they are the same members etc. Making millions, but that's not even the problem. For me, a much bigger problem is a low census. So let's protect those who have no intention of dealing with this business and don't have the opportunity to earn, let's protect them in a way that increases that censorship bar by double. So if the census were 500 thousand kuna and then you set up everything below it shouldn't be an obligation to start a company, it's kind of our thinking.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73642	And the last replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73643	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Horvat liked your presentation in that first part when you said that given this forest, there is, in fact, an organisation and an association there is a need, therefore not only to talk about it, but there is a need for one systematization of these associations and the classification of these associations. Namely, there are 52,000 people in Croatia, so they cannot be classified and placed in the same basket as some male singing group of old people, religious communities, tourist communities, associations, for example. Croatian Roma defenders in Slavonski Brod, GONG and I don't know what not. ... Yes, the birds' protection association, etc. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There is, therefore, a need once again in view of the growing and so enormous number of associations and organisations there is a classification, and then according to these groups that would also exist to define legal norms.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73644	The replica matches Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73645	Thank you. So this debate just shows that this model of ours that was formed at some point under the Associations Act is obviously not an ideal model. Obviously, there should be some revisions, certain procedures, adjustments in the very way to form these associations, how to systematise them. We are convinced that they should not be systematized according to the proposal of this law on some financial basis but functionally. Associations should be classified by the categories of their functions for which they are established and then avoid many of these overlaps and come closer to the logic of the functioning of these associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73646	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS club, a respected colleague, Srdjan Gjurkovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73647	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. So on behalf of the HNS Club, I can make it clear that on the issue of the introduction of the principle of public and transparency that is highlighted here in the draft law, we absolutely believe that this is necessary. Likewise, the control and management of finances in non-profit organisations must be guided in that respect in all branches and activities of the Croatian society, with the supervision of specific funds, of course, coming from the budget, as well as those not directly from the budget, which states, which local or regional self-government. Also, the need for statistical data to cover the entire non-profit sector is quite normal and quite clear in one orderly society to know clearly and accurately so that it knows clearly and precisely how successful it is, who is pulling funds from European funds, from the European Union, from all other funds available specifically, exceptionally and particularly to the civil sector. Of course, Article 33 opens up certain issues that the Deputy Minister himself stressed were open and, of course, it is good to discuss this law, not to have a regulation knowing how many non-profit organisations, some 50 thousand registered in the state administration's office and some 24 thousand being conducted through the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, with all these figures and billions passing through accounts or cash registers it is quite clear and necessary that we have one law that is not related to any harmonisation but a clear life-real law that is necessary in this country when rights and rules and control apply and transparency. What raises the question, which is that the provisions of this law refer to domestic and foreign associations and their associations, foundations, foundations, foundations, institutions, art organisations, chambers, trade unions, associations of employers, religious and other communities and any other legal person whose fundamental objective is not to acquire profits for which specific regulations result in their non-profit character. Now, reading the foundation report, for example. Among other things, the foundation for civil society that has been doing a survey among non-profit associations, we have come to what is important, of course, when we are doing the laws to know all the implications that the law can tomorrow, which all kinds of people are talking about, is part of the meaning of civil society, about the problems they have in order to function at all, and contribute definitely and clearly to the development of Croatia and even civil society at all. So we see that, for example. Human rights organisations rely on international and domestic donor organisations, that with the business sector the rarest form of cooperation and only in providing consulting services, that international projects in which they have collaborated with associations from EU member states have a little more than a quarter of associations, that a large number of associations do not have computers and equipment, that almost half of the associations carry out activities in the area they are assigned to and do not have to pay rent, at least a third of them rent space if the tenth has their own space, that what is important in finance is that strategic planning is more often targeted at social action and humanitarian organisations, associations that care about the protection of human rights and associations arising from the Homeland War, that the most common areas of action of associations include research in culture, then in social care, and that associations are most often carried out programmes of education, i.e. The most rare is mediation and monitoring of public policies. Half of the associations are expressed through community action and consultation and provision of professional services. We have further what has come from religious associations, an open question, which is the intrusion into the internal arrangement, the organisation, the internal affairs of religious communities, given the contracts we have. Of course, the issues of social entrepreneurship, which is a prerequisite for the withdrawal of funds from the European Social Fund, are absolutely then opened. Issues in culture are also open especially to that small culture in small non-profit organisations that fully complement their activities with certain economic activities, in part and publishing that is definitely clear and can be controlled, but are reinvested. Then we have non-profit associations that are basically like the Society of Friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities that they're accomplishing, they've made huge economic incomes continuously. Then we have that part that's related to sport, so most associations when we talk about both firefighters, when we talk about culture, they're enlightened for the good part and for the wages related to the legal obligation from taxes and the cut is given to them to ensure the functioning and work. For example, with the sport of the 5% that goes through the Croatian Olympic Committee according to sports alliances, only 5% of the funding is not required to finance sports and sports communities, sports clubs rather than they depend on the decisions of individual units of local self-government on co-financing and of course any additional or other activity that is related to that segment would open up the problem of funding and even organising the work of sport. What is equally important and crucial when we are discussing this law on behalf of the HNS Club, I must say that it is necessary and necessary that we also discuss the new Law on Associations that is in the public debate. We cannot pass this law realistically before we adopt a new Law on Associations, regardless of whether we all agree on Article 33 and said ok. We will not or will not set up companies after 230 thousand kuna in economic activity or millions of kuna in economic activity. So, the new roof law on associations is definitely something that has to go before this law because of course we'll definitely have to change it then. I'm sure in that segment that's tied to, for example, sports. There's a lot of talk about sports, but it's also not necessary, whenever it's about sports, then there's always talk about a club in Zagreb that's certainly under the control of the IRS, and so far there's obviously been no problems independent of our replicas and debates. Because if it were on that matter safely and publicly, we would know. But the problem is in some other sports, and it's the same problem that should be opened when we discuss the Law on Associations and then discuss this Law, to see if unlike culture where each activity is from art, music, theatre has its own laws and rules. And we in sport except what only 5% is financed through the Croatian Olympic Committee or from the budget everything else goes, what I said, without the obligation to finance. Our sport is extremely important because these units of local self-government are essentially determining. For example, the new Law on Professional Clubs, roof sports organisations, national alliances and national teams. Or the Law on Youth Sports and Recreation of Citizens, the Law on Clubs of Supreme Amateurism. Perhaps then we would be much easier to discuss how to regulate, how to uncomplicate those who work well, not close their way to European funds, and on the other hand to control them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73648	Thank you. We have one replica, Frano Matušić. Here you go. Two replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73649	Thank you. My colleague Gjurkovic, I agree with you that we should first and foremost discuss the Law on Associations, then only this law and the question of whether this law would have been necessary in the first place if we had started to amend the Law on Associations would we have probably been on a better path and we would have made things clearer. You mentioned the Society of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities who certainly have great money, for which every year it is required to give a report to the City Council of Dubrovnik on spent funds and exclusively spend funds, so back to those same facilities, in rebuilding the walls and generally the heritage of Dubrovnik and the former Dubrovnik Republic. But unfortunately, a month ago, or less than a month ago, the Croatian Parliament passed a law that the Constitutional Court had put out of force, namely the Law on the Institute for Reconstruction of Dubrovnik, which was indirectly related to Article 36. Associations of friends of Dubrovnik's antiquities. This Croatian Parliament, unfortunately thanks to the insistence of the CNS, has therefore passed an unconstitutional law, which we warned in the debate. The law by which this Croatian Parliament actually took on the role of a judicial body, which is absolutely unconstitutional. And it would be really interesting to see how this thing will ultimately be resolved, but unfortunately, it turns out that the act of raping one law is also being done here by Parliament because of particular party interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73650	The replica matches Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73651	Dear colleague, what will ultimately be passed by the Constitutional Court I do not wish to debate. However, the report heading towards the city council certainly differs from the way this law determines the supervision and public and transparency of the work and powers of the Ministry of Finance in income and spending, i.e. in the expenditures of those funds that are being incurred, and when we talk about the Dubrovnik Walls, we are certainly talking about an economic segment. Therefore, the law that we have passed and what will come after the Constitutional Court's decision will be, however, the supervision of the Ministry of Finance, the public and transparency of the non-City council is extremely important and particularly important in cases where the management of such economic facilities is significant and we absolutely support this part of the law on this matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73652	Second replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73653	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your colleague Gjurkovic spoke about associations, but this is the Law on the financing of the accounting of non-profit organisations. Associations are just one small segment. But I would refer to this part of the sports associations where apparently this law can't solve it. Someone else has to solve the organization of amateur, semi-amateur. We now have a few to say so by private sports clubs. People just out of love for a sport have financial opportunities, they put money into some kind of club. Honestly speaking to all these big clubs would be even best if they were organised as companies, they would be in the VAT system, all they have paid VAT would have the right to return VAT and in that entire organisation where they have organized one part and accommodation and nutrition for their players etc. They'd be better off. But then you have to say it's like that, and not if you make it this far, then you have to be it. But we must also be aware that we will make a big distinction in Croatian sport. And this is how we have it. What may be the biggest problem of Croatian sport that has no symbiosis of sport and economy as it is outside. Outside, every club owners are being kidnapped to get a place in the advertising stadium. Look, let's just say that in the world's strongest clubs, they only have one commercial on their uniform, but that ad costs 50 or 100 million euros. Also, signing a contract with a sports brand if you have sports results, then it's a million, ten million, 100 million amounts because when you take how many English teams have on the basis of wearing a single sports brand, it's more than it's worth. So, there are simply different terms of concept of sports outside than we do, but in order for us to do that, we have to settle it with some other law, not this.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73654	Replication response, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73655	My dear colleague, I have clearly read exactly what this law applies to, and I have drawn from it associations as part of which this law essentially refers and analysed certain problems that exist and which this law in certain segments, and this Article 33 may also have something that should be changed on this issue. Therefore, when we talk about Article 33 of the Economic Activities of the Associations and then part of the sport, it is obvious that this article would be useful for certain sports associations, but some would not. Our goal is to develop everything, but also to control it. That is why I did say it would be good to adopt a new Law on Associations that would facilitate this time which we must do about public transparency and financial control of non-profit organisations, separate and separate certain associations by some new criteria, and also point to problems that have associations. What I did not discuss, but in some other debates it was also the firefighters and these are the foundations and we mentioned here and the tourist communities. It is clear that we cannot treat them in the same way because they also play a different role in society, and especially in different funding. One is 100% insured and does not have to deal with economic activity in order to deal with the human part or the social part he deals with, one must ensure and facilitate the budget on the other hand that it does not have to co-finance them. But that's why we don't have to sanction them, of course. And to some who are engaged in economic activity, you have to tell gentlemen that you have to start a company because it doesn't make sense anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73656	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first one came forward to honoring Mirella Holly, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73657	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I welcome the intensifiers of this bill to introduce order, i.e. regulate the financing of non-profit associations. However, some of the proposed solutions in this bill are not logical and I am afraid that it will cause counter-effects rather than introduce order and transparency in the financing of non-profit associations. In my debate, I will point to some of these illogicalities, and I hope that the Government, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, will respect them and correct the proposal. At the very beginning, I would like to stress that the NGO sector has proved extremely pro-pulsory, and that is precisely in crisis years because according to the Office of Associations, the associations have increased employment by 8% in the last two years. This means that around 76 people are employed in a society that is becoming a more relevant economic factor, and this trend seems to continue since NGOs are far more effective than government institutions in obtaining funds from EU funds intended for the development of civil society. This is a more illogical provision set out in Article 9 which regulates a non-profit organisation to conduct bookkeeping on the principle of dual accounting and that an extremely legal representative of a non-profit organisation may decide on the management of simple accounting for that application of the monetary accounting principle if the value of the assets is a non-profit organisation in the previous three years consecutively less than 230 thousand kuna per year and if the annual income of a non-profit organisation in the previous three years is consecutively less than 230 thousand kuna per year and if the last three years since the establishment of a non-profit organisation of which the year of establishment is calculated as the first. I believe that this is a turning of chicken upside down and that this article should have been reversed, i.e. that associations lead simple accounting until the value of the property or annual income is exceeded by these magical 230 thousand kunas. In fact, such a provision will unnecessarily seek the work of many associations, and this is not good for the state or for economic reasons. Why? Because I mentioned statistics earlier, it says that associations have increased employment by 8%, which is an excellent indicator in a situation where employment in the country is constantly falling. The problem is the classification of all non-profit organisations in the same group and according to this proposal the same rules will apply to all non-profit organisations regardless of what they are dealing with, which is their objective, purpose or activity. Under this law, the same rules apply to an association aimed at promoting sports, which today has been a lot of words, encouraging the acquisition of sports, various professional associations, art associations aimed at promoting their interests, and associations, foundations and organisations aimed at providing the necessary assistance in overcoming daily difficulties, equating opportunities and equalising persons with disabilities in the social life of the community, or various organisations whose aim is to target people with disabilities. It is necessary to distinguish civil society organisations from their activities, objectives, and thus to determine their obligations. It was also warned by Mr. Mirko Krkach, who is the manager of the foundation I hear, believe and see, which his mail was received I suppose many representatives here as well as the absurdity of the provision that associations engaged in charity work, helping people with disabilities, communal fees are paid by the same tariffs as the economy. I believe that in the law, however, a distinction should be made between associations and their financial obligations in relation to their activities and whether their activities are in the public interest. I believe that many in Croatia suspect that a third of registered associations are working at all, so the start of this law should refer to the definition of work for the general good, i.e. what is considered a civil association at all. What has happened so far has meant that any form of association for the sake of a common interest is treated equally, so the basis for law enforcement should be based on a distinction between sports, cultural activities and public goods. Such associations are mostly funded by donations while these sports and cultural memberships are maintained and in practice it can be seen how many sports associations behave as companies. Whether the provisions of Article 33 of this proposal will contribute to the introduction of order in that direction. I hope so. Since Articles 10, 34 and 39 of the non-profit organisations are associated with, but also by activity, that economic one thinks that the fundamental problem of this law lies in the fact that there is legal uncertainty and legal uncertainty that is most reflected in the definition of economic activity. It is never good to leave too much discretionary decision-making to public authorities and these provisions give great powers, I would say to tax collectors who can make rather arbitrarily discretionary decisions on each individual case and whether they consider something to be a basic or economic activity, so they can be seminars, workshops, courses, ticket sales in theatres and so far it was a basic activity but this proposal could be considered an economic activity. The non-governmental sector is very important to everyone because it brings innovative ways of employment, hires part of unemployed, affirms volunteering or takes over part of a job that at a certain point states or counties or units of local self-government cannot do, therefore some data on the number of employees suggest that more and more people see the opportunity for associations to build their careers. As a result, we also do not consider it logical that employers' unions are exempt from public publication of financial reports and from the obligation to revise them. Strengthening the responsibility of the organisation to its members and to the public from which financial and other support is received must be given to all regardless of their specificities. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The budget spending report must be comparable at the country-wide level and uniform and should not be structured solely and depending on the purpose for which the funds are given. However, it is the spending of citizens’ resources, so a report at the municipal level could lead to intransparency because there are things where local authorities in all areas have proved inefficient and inadequacy and very often the information they receive does not pass on which the principle of transparency does not suffer. Certainly, what is a problem in most laws passed is a legal procedure relating to the absence of an appeal for outcomes obtained by financial supervision, which is Article 41.so it is not fully entering into the professionality and impartiality of the inspector of financial supervision although it could be a problem in small areas, the error in their work is possible. A non-profit organisation should have the right to appeal for a solution, the administration of the dispute may take too long to make it difficult and block the work of the organisation which can be devastating for the development of social entrepreneurship. I would like to remind you that at EU level, the social economy is precisely considered a very important leverage for exiting the economic crisis and combating poverty and non-profit organisations, civil society plays a major role in this, and is given the price especially when it comes to particularly poor, vulnerable groups. Finally, although the idea of this law is truly commendable in practice, it is necessary to pay attention to the possibility of crossing the border of dangerous control over the life and privacy of citizens who are guaranteed by the association system in all international conventions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73658	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73659	Dear colleague Holly seems to me if I've heard correctly that you said you didn't support that unions don't file public reports. This is opposed to the International Labour Organisation Convention, European Practice, because again, the Convention sets out that national legislation must not endanger or use it in such a way as to compromise the guarantees set out in that Convention. In addition, the public publication of the union's annual financial report directly exposes its strike power as well as the strength and ability of the union as a whole. I'm not going to read any more, mostly unions are organised that way, I strongly object that unions do, trade unions have to report to the state anyway. Trade unions are voluntary associations, trade unions are not paid out of the state budget, trade unions submit their reports to their members and quite normal business control as we all go through business controls. I agree with you asking what a civil society is, we should say what civil society can't be in the same basket and sports associations, and then professional athletes are in the same basket, amateur sports, art organizations, fire departments. We have such a papacy and those who spoke before actually we should have passed a set of laws and discussed it for a few days then we would have seen one whole. This is how this is solved in a partial way as the problems in Croatia are dealt with in part, and I don't think much is going to happen, so I would be very pleased that you support what the international conventions show in Europe, which is the union's relationship. Therefore, they do not ask for non-transparent business but because they have strategic reasons for doing so.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73660	Thank you. Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73661	My dear colleague, thank you for your explanation, I didn't know that, and I'm glad you warned me about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73662	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73663	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I agree with a lot of things you've said, but I don't agree with some of them, and I'm just going to look back on that part. So in one part of it you said that sports associations behave like companies, you practically put into question at all their social benefits can say so. But I think that's where you went wrong that maybe you've generally identified sports associations with certain sports companies. I'd like you to maybe try to see how the organization goes one weekend, say, in a football amateur club or handball or basketball club, any one of which, when you have through the week 4, 5 trainings with each team, you have to organize coaches, you have to organize space. Then comes the weekend then teams go to the games so one five travels so you have to organize buses, you have to give the kids some sandwich probably, some juice because they travel a lot of miles and then you have a home game organization coming to you a whole series of official persons, judges, delegates I don't know who they're all of course looking for money and in that part it turns out that sports amateur associations are sports clubs definitely like businesses, it's practically a small company. But the company run by volunteers who are on a voluntary basis organized to gather children and young ones to make them better and healthy people. And that's why they don't act like companies, I don't go into individual cases here all the time in the air, but sports companies like amateur companies aren't really companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73664	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73665	Dear colleague, I really advocate that our approach to sports be a sport in terms of recreational content because I think it is extremely important that society deals as much with sports activities as possible because it is also working to improve the health of the population. And I think that, in this sense, there should also be some changes in the financing of sports content itself where the very content that leads to the promotion of recreational sport throughout the country and, in general, in society of those activities that are related to professional sport and where very big money revolves. Well, I don't know if there's just a few such clubs, I think there are more of them, and the fact is that, especially in some clubs, there's millions of millions of people spinning, and that such clubs are being run as non-profit organisations, which I think is a complete abuse of current legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73666	Thank you. We're going back to work. Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73667	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister with associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. So this law we're discussing today can be said that we've been waiting long and very impatiently. When I say that we have waited long then I remind you that according to the Action Plan for the implementation of the Open Authority Partnership in the Republic of 2012-2013, the law was to be adopted in March last year, so a year ago. And when I say that he waited impatiently then I am talking about the expectation of all of us that this law will finally introduce order into this one megalomaniac, I would say, the non-profit sector primarily because it spends among other things and huge budget money, so the estimate is that approximately five years of spending or going through 7.5 billion kuna associations. And I would say that in one non-transparent way or far from the eyes of the public. In Croatia, a very heterogeneous society is a common denominator, which promotes the protection of health or assistance of people with disabilities through fire companies, associations of defenders, foundations, foundations, political parties, various sports associations and clubs from those of the village to those at national level. There are cultural and artistic societies, trade unions, professional associations, port administrations that make huge money, but there is, for example, classy Caritas and the Catholic Church. Part of this crowd that I have listed deals with the general good and development of society, while some others are founded to meet the needs of their members and to fill their free time. Part of the association owns certain assets, has employees, others have neither property nor employees. A large number of citizens' associations are said to be the result of their dissatisfaction with the functioning of state institutions. So, the higher the number of associations, the weaker the institutions of the state, the more effective state institutions meet the needs of their citizens, and the more citizens then organize themselves to actually meet their needs. What needs to be pointed out over and over again, the aim of this law is not to achieve fiscal impact for the state budget, the aim is to fully regulate the system of financial operations, accounting and supervision of the financial operations of non-profit organisations, further it is necessary to remove a number of irregularities and prevent unfair competition which many companies are complaining about. Of course, it is also important for non-profit organisations to be able to consume European money. Until now, the accounting regulation of non-profit organisations has only arranged the accounting monitoring of non-profit organisations. The associations had to submit financial reports so far, but since no sanctions were provided for, they often did not, therefore they did not submit reports or, if they did, they were incomplete and incorrect. So she was quite content to say form. So far, non-profit organisations have not had to develop a business plan, financial reports have not been published, there has been no revision of financial reports or audits of non-profit organisations, etc. According to new legal solutions, all non-profit organisations will have to submit their reports on receipts and consumption to the finance ministry in the future, and the finance ministry will then publicly publish them, making them visible, available to the public. Furthermore, all non-profit organisations will have to list their assets, they will have to make a business plan, they will have to run bookkeeping depending on the size of their business. So smaller organisations will run simple bookkeeping, and those who have revenues above 230 kuna will have to run double accounting. In the event that these legal provisions are not respected, sanctions are provided, so penalties are quite high and up to half a million kuna, and these penalties should also be one additional reason or motive for non-profit organisations to take seriously the new legal obligations that this law gives them. Organisations that generate total revenues of more than 3 to 10 million kuna will also be subject to the annual financial supervision obligations, while organisations with revenue of more than 10 million kuna will also have the obligation to submit audit reports, so they will be subject to audits of financial reports. In the opening presentation of this legislative proposal, the Deputy Minister mentioned a lot of numbers, but I will only use three for my debate. So 50,000 non-profit organisations are registered in the Register of the Ministry of Administration, 25 000 non-profit organisations exist or are registered in the Register of the Ministry of Finance. So 25,000, or half of the non-profit organizations, were lost somewhere along the way between the two ministries. And in the end, only 12,200 non-profit organisations submit a business report, so we can treat them as those that work, that operate, that are active. When we talk about introducing order, my first step should be to align these two registers, so the Ministry of Finance with the Register of the Ministry of Administration and should delete from these registers all those organisations that are inactive, which do not operate exactly as they do with economic operators. So we know when a company is not active, and it is not active when it does not submit three years in a row a financial report to the financial organisation or agency, FINA, then that company must be deleted from the court register. In the second step, non-profit organisations that operate should be made visible. Therefore, if the financial statements of companies operating in private capital and in one market game are published, then the reports of non-profit organisations primarily financed by public money, i.e. taxpayers' money, must also be published. And the third step, or last step, should be a thorough light-up so that I would paint it, with a dense sieve in order to detect those who, in their functioning, are actually engaged in profitable or economic activity, i.e. business and unfair competition to entrepreneurs. Those fortunately will not remain much in view of the fact that this tax limit has been lifted from 100 to 230 000 kuna so far. In doing so, I do not think that a company should establish all those non-profit organisations that have once found themselves in a position to achieve more than 230 000 kuna revenue from the economic activity. I think a time criterion should be added to this criterion, therefore, to the amount of 230 000 kuna. For example, the company is obliged to establish non-profit organisations which are in continuity of 3 or 5 years. But I say three years are mentioned in a few more articles of this legislative proposal, so that, in a three-year continuum, revenue from an economic activity of more than 230 thousand kunas. Similarly, Article 6 concerning the management of non-profit organisations is regulated. Of course I round up, that is, to conclude this debate of mine. The full effect would be achieved by this Law in a situation where it would be more precisely determined by the concept of economic activity itself, because now with these few words in the provisions of the law, it is actually too general and unfortunately opens the space for different interpretations. So in this respect it should be much more precise and, of course, classify all of this force, this multitude of non-profit organisations in a certain way, in certain areas of economic activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73668	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Danesh Shaw, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73669	Thank you very much, Vice President. You colleagues in the introduction made it very clear that we have waited a long, long time, and then you elaborated very well how this will be done in steps. And I'll be very happy if that's how it's gonna be. However, I am afraid yesterday, too, of the Law on Youth Council that there will be a number of provisions that will simply not apply in practice. And we know the situation on the ground. The simplest bookkeeping by me is how I read from these materials in accordance with Article 13. Business books which are required to run in accordance with Article 9(2). It is this amateur, sports, cultural societies, book registers, book of receipts and expenditures, book of entry accounts, book of exit accounts, list of long-term non-financial assets. And then another finance minister will prescribe content, etc. I must tell you honestly as chief when I attend their annual congregations then I am happy to see that there is one neat notebook where they have written down all the revenue by sources and all the expenditure and have the documentation beautifully compiled in the register, where then you can see the property and all the expensive. And all of what we're about to do here, I'd very much like it when we pass the law and that amateur-gathering team or other culturally this ethnic society is going to lead all of this according to these rules. I'm very afraid we'll prescribe, and down in the field in rural small areas we should maybe limit to 100,000, even simplify then, but then insist on that and then punish. And as far as these penalties are concerned, it's only with one sentence to illustrate. A recently told me that an activist at a football club is easy to find a coach because he pays 2000 or 1500 but it's very difficult for the president, no one wants to be president, because he answers. He must provide them with these minimum funds so that they can travel, so that they can compete. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73670	Thank you. My colleague Jelish's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73671	I understand what you're saying, and I completely agree with you. So, in those local areas of the weaker, therefore lower fiscal capacity, which can't make donations from budgets as taught by the Deputy Minister at higher levels. So there is also the functioning of amateur cultural and artistic societies and amateur sports societies and a series of other non-profit organisations actually based on one I would say to the President, above all, the leadership of these non-profit organisations and then members themselves. And that is exactly why, therefore, these minimal financial resources which these non-profit organisations have in store for them are determined to run simple accounting. So that's really what a couple of blocks of payments, a payment card that I don't think should be such a big problem after all. Finally and trusting in bookkeeping, this simple accounting, bookkeeping services for some 200, 300 or 500 kuna shouldn't be a problem monthly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73672	Thank you. Next replica, Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73673	Thank you very much. My colleague Jelash, theory or life, I would say it like that. My colleague Shaw said a few things before, and now you've proved to me in response to his replica that you have a good theory, that you're doing it, but in this life, the association seems to me you don't have much knowledge. You say you'll have to run accounting, bookkeeping, I don't know how many books are listed here. It'll be tons of paper. The president of some associations will have to go first to some legal seminar so that he can even figure out what to do. And what's really a problem, the problem is that this is going to be a blow back to smaller areas and rural areas. It was simply today that the will for volunteers was killed, for amateurism. No one will ever expose themselves to being chased, persecuted and punished. We are here today constantly talking about some punishments and what bothers me, which I ask you to answer. Why do we keep hearing from the SDP ranks today that this law has nothing to do with some taxation? Do you know something we don't know that we can't read in this law? Why does no one keep asking that question in advance, but we keep hearing there won't be any new taxation. It will be and it is hard to trust a company to allocate 300 kuna per month to bookkeeping if it has a total annual budget of 5,6,000 kuna. It's hard, believe it's hard. I don't know if you're a member of any associations or maybe run some associations, try and make sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73674	Thank you. Answer, colleague Jelesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73675	You continue to convince the Croatian public that these small associations of non-profit organizations will have problems with tones as you have said with piles of paper. It won't be like that. Therefore, simple accounting does not involve any piles of paper, and not the heads and directors of these non-profit organisations will have to go to courses and vocational training because they in principle do not do these jobs, but they will be able to trust it as I said and colleagues from Shoji will be able to trust the management of accounting jobs to those who know how to do it and it is not done for big money today. So they're going to entrust these jobs to bookkeeping services. In fact, that's how you'll get both transparency and accuracy. Bookkeeping services are responsible for how they do their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73676	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Goran Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73677	Thank you, dearly respected deputy with a co-worker, dear Vice President of the Parliament. There is no dispute that there are a huge number of associations in Croatia. The social benefits of these associations are also indisputable, but it is necessary to distinguish the individual contributions of each association by activity and individually. There are those who hurt society, and we need to say that. There are those who make a remarkable contribution to the development of society, general benefits, but there are those that would be better off if they didn't exist. I think it would be better, but perhaps it is now too late, there is a Law on Associations, that the Financial Business Act of Non-profit Organisations has been incorporated into the Associations Act, that a final proposal of the Association Act is adopted, where all activities would be defined and under what conditions associations can deal with, which activities cannot be carried out within the Associations and more clearly define and financial operations. But that it certainly needs a legal framework for financial operations is necessary and necessary. But we have to keep in mind the multilayerity and complexity of these organizations and that we can't value or have a criterion just one, and that's a cash amount. We need to know first of all the activities involved in activities, the purpose of existence, the social benefits, whose interests are promoted by associations and the most important sources of funding. It is not good that there are no most important criteria, and it seems to me that the two most important ones are activity and funding. I think it's blasphemous to compare church activity with the activities of football clubs and alliances. That it is not good to compare the activities of a scientific professional with the activities of the Association for Beer Lovers. That it is not good to compare the same basket with humanitarian associations and martial arts associations. And especially, I will repeat it blasphemically not to have in mind and not to distinguish this earth's activity from otherworldly activity. And I'd like to include that in this law. Because pastoral services aren't classic economic services. It's not an earthly activity, it's an alien activity that understands that. And it has to be treated differently. The church does not deal with recognizable activity and clearly defined. There is no such activity in the categorisation of the trade court. You can't start d.o.o. and set up a director, and... pastoral services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can't. We have to keep that in mind. The church or, say, the voice of the council is the inner voice of the church. It can't be viewed equally, it's not a typical classical earthly publishing activity. We have to keep that in mind. Who understands the voice of the council. The church doesn't mind, and I insist that the State Audit and all institutions oversee the spending of money from the state budget and the church. That's exactly what the church is looking for, but I'm afraid a lot of people haven't wanted it so far so we can't control under an excuse here, so we don't even control those other organizations that don't need to be controlled. Introduce supervision of the spending of money from the state budget relating to the church certainly but not logically to oversee, that the State audit cannot enter the state institutions of some who spend state money and monitor charity. Well, that doesn't make sense, no way. It is also necessary to distinguish donations not only from the budget of state and local self-government units. And what about donations and money incentives from associations coming from state-owned companies? From companies where the state has co-ownership, from state institutions, from public institutions, from agencies? So the agencies make donations. And that should include special supervision for those. That's the most important thing. What if HTV donates to associations and 90 percent of the subscription is funded? That should be considered, such a distinction. Just a few more concrete examples and suggestions for this law to be effective and include everything. Article 6 states that reports of non-profit organisations are still being submitted at the request. I don't think we can leave any freedom to ask for a report or not, either he has to deliver or he doesn't have to deliver because then one county or one city will deliver to everyone and the other won't deliver at all. And here you must include, mandatory and deliver companies that are state-owned and not just units of local self-government and state budget and all companies that are financed from state money, institutions, agencies as well. In Article 9, when it comes to paragraph 2 that the management of simple bookkeeping is once again listed only a level of less than 230 thousand kuna and there is no activity type. I'm afraid there's going to be a multiplication of associations, a number of associations. Many will be able to avoid this, set up an association, the association will establish a new association and we will multiply associations and there will be no purpose. This should therefore avoid the association's connection to avoid such a limit of cash. In Article 33, a non-profit organisation carrying out an economic activity and having more than 230 must establish a company. This is not only, it should not only be a criterion of money but also of this obligation of activity which I have already said before, but it is said here in paragraph 4 that those activities are exempt from the provision of rental and lease services. I'm not going to go into the reasons why they're the only ones who are exempt or I'm not even familiar with it, I don't even know if I'm in favour or against it, but I'm definitely going to keep it quiet then, but let's just say that these professional and scientific activities are excluded from this. Imagine now a scientific agency that appoints a director and gives him all his powers, so that immediately that professional organization has failed with its sense of existence. There is further in paragraph 5. a non-profit organisation, performing such an activity due to the special benefits of obtaining unwarranted benefits on the market, I find this a little unclear and I do not know what is under this, how some benefits of an unwarranted benefit can be acquired on the market, that is a bit vague for me, and I think that such terms should be avoided. In Article 46 where criminal penalties are committed, all possible infringements are listed in the same article and covered by a range of penalties ranging from 5 thousand to 50 thousand kuna. I don't think that's a good solution and that you should classify the types of violations that correspond to a certain level and fines. So it turns out that someone for a banal offence can be punished because he did not bring a change in time, perhaps with 50 thousand kuna, and someone who does not register in non-profit organisations under Article 35 is punished with a minimum penalty, leaving a great deal of freedom for those who determine the penalties and I think that he should specify the lowest, medium and highest and by types of violations and by the amounts of penalties. The penalties are certainly to reduce classes and penalties seem to me to be a little too high in particular this paragraph 2 where fines, fines of 5-20 thousand will be fined for the violation of paragraph 1 of this Article by a legal representative of a non-profit organisation. Again, freedom is given enormously to the president of the company or director of the company d.o.o. For one banalan again, I say a violation that a great punishment or symbolic and I think that there are generally great penalties but that it should be classified as a fine of 5 thousand, which are violations of 5-10 thousand and which are violations of, say, 10, 20 thousand kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73678	Thank you, too. We move to replicas, Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73679	Thank you. Dear Maric, you have rightly warned of a series of shortcomings and a series of concerns that opens up this bill. One of them is the behaviour on the market of non-profit organisations and allegedly obtaining a privileged position. Therefore, it should be explained in which cases and in what way but in general it seems to me that it is indeed an attempt to overstretch with one goal in order to sow funds into the Croatian budget and on the other hand, so that some institutions that have a critical distance towards the behaviour of this government are indirectly and threatened. You mentioned the church and the fact that the official church absolutely first of all the Catholic church about it we speak of it has nothing to do with the control and that it is about the money coming from the state budget and that is, on several occasions, publicly speaking, officials are that, church credentials pardon have said it many times already and therefore there is really no reason for a indirect threat to such an institution to happen in this way. You have rightly spoken of the voice of the council, of course it is not a daily newspaper, and of course it is not a weekly that informs the entire public, but it is an internal voice of the Catholic Church that actually belongs to the church which is an integral part of the church actually informs them of its views. But it seems to me that the most important thing was to avoid this law and that it was actually necessary to amend the Law on Associations and then we would have a much, much clearer situation but not in this way to actually overstretched and then re-change both this law and the other laws that are related to it because I really don't think this law should have come to a parliamentary debate at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73680	Thank you. A colleague Maric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73681	Thank you very much. My colleague Matušić, of course, and I pointed out that the Law on Associations was to be amended, which is disastrous. We have to admit it's one law that can't be read. It had to change it and this regulation is financially necessary, it has no doubt at all and it is excellent to go to another reading and I hope all of what we are saying here will be reasonable and all reasonable solutions will be accepted, so we point out. Of course, when you talk about the church, it's something special and it's something to look at. The church isn't on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73682	My colleague Cain, please don't throw it away. Please continue your colleague Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73683	Imagine if the parish collects donations for the restoration of the church or repair of some or roof leaks or the construction of a new and crosses 230 thousand kunas must be registered by the company and the director. So do you know what the risk is, it's a change of social order, it's inadmissible, it can't happen in Croatia no matter how much anyone sees as they earn, but we can't let that happen. That's why I think reason will be that the church is particularly observed because it is not engaged in earthly activity. Pastoral services are not charged no matter how many people here say they're charged, but they don't understand what's being charged or what's not charged. Confession is not charged, pastoral service is not charged, and ever someone pays for the funeral, pays for something else, not the act itself, but they don't understand it simply.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73684	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73685	Thank you very much. The amending Budget Law and the establishment of the Treasury clearly define that anyone who receives money from the state budget must report, and not on request, the cost of the funds must be reported. So it's something that's definitely like that. But we've been focusing here today on several associations, but when you look at our budget, when you look at certain items of individual ministries, then you'll see that a lot of ministry programs go through these or other associations. So take just those games of chance, one big part goes to the Croatian Olympic Sports Funding Board that is about 100 and another million kunas over 140 or 150 million kunas going to various associations to implement the anti-drug addiction programme etc. So a lot of ways and segments of funding and they all file a financial report. It is not true that financial reports are not submitted. And by this law nothing in principle will change anything more significant than existing regulations. But what is controversial in this law is this article 33, which gives someone the right to freely interpret certain things, which is economic activity. If you have already made such a provision, then you need to clearly define what it is. If you did not do so she moved that article because, in principle, the Tax on Profit is clearly defined. And why did that get into profit tax law, I'll tell you. So when the reform of the tax system started in the Republic of Croatia, then a small private initiative started. You had a foreign language school at the National University you had private foreign language schools had different tax treatment, and that's where it started and then it continued. And without telling this story with the church, I'm glad that all religious communities in the Republic of Croatia signed one letter and sent to all the club representatives where they said this church relationship was regulated by a special law and should not be mentioned here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73686	Thank you. A colleague Maric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73687	Thank you very much. Well, of course, fellow Shuker that reports must be delivered, not on request. But we have something similar also not naturally that the concession is paid only on request, and when the concessionary has no obligation alone. As far as economic activity is concerned, that is why I was saying it is necessary to define what economic activity is and what activities non-profit organisations should deal with. It is not a good solution for non-profit organisations to deal with all economic activities, it is not a good solution. Then we'll have non-profit organizations to produce tanks, if that's allowed, and I think that's bad. When I was talking about the church, I was talking about the church in general, I wasn't just talking about the Catholic church, but when I was talking about the contract with St. With a chair, of course, I meant the Catholic Church. Therefore, all associations in Croatia need a specification of their activities, which is what they are dealing with and what their resources are. And some associations according to different programmes through different state institutions by 5.6 in different ways are financed from state money or directly from the state budget and half through the Ministry of Culture, a little through the Ministry of Education, a little over HTV, a little through agencies, and then they're still asking for donations from institutions, and with 10 species and always in the background is state money. We need to know what the association is funded from and what the activities of the association are. And there is no registered economic activity, pastoral activity, imagine the economic activity of pastoral activity, it can't be, it can't be, and I don't doubt at all that there is so much reason that it will not doubt at all. I won't even mention it anymore because I think it'll be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73688	Next replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73689	Dear fellow Maric I love when people speak with passion, you spoke of the church with passion. It's absolutely certain that charity should not be monitored, and when today's talk about the church I didn't even hear anyone say you were going to overcome reason, so you probably will. Surely pastoral activity is not the one that should be interested in and controlled by the state at all. You yourself said at the beginning of your exposure that you and that the church itself asked that what the state gave her to pay bills on what she had spent on and it was quite, I don't think it would have been a false impression in public that someone here suggested to control a charity or to control it, I think it's too high. After all, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia decided to give it themselves. They give it themselves, so they give it and they know what the rules are. And you mentioned before I don't know whether you or anyone else, four contracts with the Holy Table and what's prescribed by the Holy Table, with me thinking that it's not cemented, that it can only be broken down if both sides agree and there write in your contracts that contracts can be changed if the situation changes significantly. But this isn't the subject of conversation. I agree with you that we should control before associations spend money on agencies, councils. In Croatia, in a state-owned machine that is a big-ass leak of money everywhere, and Mr. Linic doesn't know how to patch holes. Of the 150 agencies or close to 200 as the council moves and all that, that's how much money you spend. However, party or party personnel are employed in these councils and agencies and must not be touched. I think those two parties made a quiet deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73690	Thank you. Answer, fellow Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73691	Thank you very much. My colleague Vuksic, well, of course I spoke a little with passion because passion stems from honesty, it is logical and normal. And I'm glad you agreed to this, but it's not true that this law doesn't predict it. This law does not exclude charity from reporting, which is why I am warning you. Of course, what is... from the state budget, which is foreseen under the contract with the Holy See, and I agree that no contract is cemented and that I agree and that a report should be delivered and the spending of those funds monitored, I said, all institutions but to the last kuna. No kuna in Croatia should be spent on state money that is not supervised, regardless of the church or anyone else, but so let's decide what it is and what it is. And that is why I am warning and of course that will be taken into account but this proposal did not take that into account. That's why it's necessary to emphasize it so many times. There are sensitive things. You were in Vjesnik, you know I was, we were there together. It is not the voice of the publishing activity, and I only warn that we worry about it because it is the inner voice of the believers and it is not the classical earthly publishing activity, and I hope that this too will be taken into account before the bill is passed into another reading. But we still have too much space to spend on state money unsupervised and it should finally be covered. We still have state institutions where public procurement can't be controlled. There's no way in. We need to talk about these things the same way if we're gonna get everyone out of here clean. Someone manages millions of kunas and spends millions of kunas on state institutions, and the state's audit law forbids her to enter that institution, imagine. It's absurd.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73692	Time. Thank you. Next up for debate, Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73693	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, let me say something about this law on the financing and accounting of non-profit organisations. Today we've heard a lot of thoughts and suggestions in an attempt to expose this system that we have in part of non-profit organizations. A lot of us thinks it's flying, but I haven't seen too much besides this last presentation of Mr. Maric, I've seen feelings for reality, for content. Can we even expect the Ministry of Finance to have a sense of reality? for what these associations, non-profit organisations do at all. They keep turning some numbers in front of their eyes, they look at numbers, they're interested in numbers. It's perfectly normal for the Ministry of Finance, but I think some other ministries should've made it a little bit clear that we're not going to go into anything so we're going back to the beginning, that the ministry in this case is cutting off at 230,000 and we're dividing something in half, and we're doing many of the same jobs. That's what it looks like to me because the experiences show an example of VAT in tourism that we had in the same year and 10 and 13%. It now points to a health contribution that can be 15 and 13 so it's still good. I wouldn't want us as members of the Parliament, and we're members of these civil non-profit organizations, I don't know who isn't. We all support them somewhere, we're members somewhere, we're taking them somewhere because politicians have to give their pain, they expect it to be helped, and now I'm raising my hand to rip off a part of those organizations here because the finance ministry said it. Let's just say you'd turn one of them into a trade company right now. I don't want to, it's kind of a subversive activity for me because it's clearly a defined non-profit organization. It is a legal person established to achieve a particular public, general or common interest of an individual, a group of citizens or a wider community, with no emphasis on profit or market-based action. The term non-profit as a fundamental feature of non-profit organisations suggests that the first characteristic of these organisations is the absence of profit, i.e. that these organisations act primarily with a purpose other than obtaining profits, which is linked to public interest. The operation of non-profit organisations is common in an area which cannot be organised on a commercial basis. A non-profit organisation is an organization whose goal is something other than profit acquisition for its owner. Usually her goal is to provide services. The concept of non-profit organisations belongs to the so-called so-called ‘profit organizations’. Third sector, next to public and private. They're civil society associations. Civil society is a set of institutions, associations, organisations, networks and individuals who join themselves voluntarily to defend their common interests, recognising themselves as a special sub-component of public life. Why am I pointing this out? So for 20 years we've been trying to organize this country in all segments, but with great progress in all areas. It has not led to the perfection of integrity, and clear mechanisms and systems have been set up to function. That we've set up in these 20 years systems that don't produce doubt, violations, crimes, abuse. Will this be settled by this law? I don't think so. Is the public sector in place? It's not. We see he spends himself, he's a mess. Who's controlling him? Is it better than this third sector? And that's the question. But it's simply determined to impose rules on this third one, but also on the private sector. Research in the Republic of Croatia shows that the visibility of civil society is weak and that there is little participation of citizens and citizens in the work of associations. A survey on the meaning of the terms of associations showed that a large majority of citizens heard of the expressions of associations or NGOs, 79.6% of them with 43.3% of them knowing what the association means but 36% heard of the expression but did not know what it was. Non-state, non-governmental, non-profit organisations are funded first as charity based on donations, churches and other religious communities, humanitarian organisations, various foundations, foundations and the like. Second, on the basis of donations, donations and subsidies. That includes sports clubs. The third is the Chamber of Commerce, craft chambers, interest and business associations, trade unions. And the fourth subjects were founded on a commercial basis. We mixed it all up in this article 33. It doesn't matter to us. Associations are the most common form in which citizens and citizens can step out of the private sphere, from their families or business not leaving at that time their family and business and influence how common and public functions are fulfilled. In that sense, they act as civil society. Citizens shall be entitled to association guaranteed by the Constitution, Article 43. And it is only limited by the ban on jeopardising the democratic constitutional order and the independence and unity and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia. That the Ministry of Finance, i.e. The public sector clearly explained the system today would not mix pears and apples here with some ground-floor demands of a bad policy which has taken over to face all groups of society using its right to regulate and order everyone, and it itself cannot deal with the responsibilities it has to bear. A position stronger towards a weaker one used for day-to-day political purposes. Because if they mind the church, because I strongly criticise this authority, I propose a law that I want to put under control in part of the finances. Although I do know that control of these finances will have no major effects. At the same time as the government of that same church, I don't want to return all the nationalized property. We don't put that in the same relationship. This same nationalised property may be exploited and used for the public sector. The public sector in the nationalised property of the church may be carrying out some activity. And what's gonna happen to us? Now that same church has to pay taxes because someone once took that same property a long time ago. It's a game where we can expect for power an unexpected end. Is that what this Law is supposed to do? I think he's got it all wrong? Is this the economic activity we are talking about today in Article 33? If I mind an employee in a sport who knows how to sell a player who claims to pay more taxes to the state than some big companies do through a small door and an article 33, and that's how we get into some kind of unsettled system. I'm the deputy today says opening night I don't know if this is a good thing we're discussing, whether the company is affected by the term. We're discussing something that even the government doesn't know if it's okay. Great! Because he's more successful at his job and more successful than the government in his job. We'll put him under control. What's happening to us? That small sports clubs are included in the same article with the great professional, county league and first football league, tourist community and cultural and artistic society, football club and bogarska club, Association of Persons of the Homeland War and GONG, Babe and Association "Ptica", Foundation "Ana Rukavina" as well as Agency for Pressure Equipment. That is all in Article 33. Great! I don't think this has been solved this way so far, no one dared do it this way. If there are irregularities in that system where those who are successful say let those in charge handle it. Can it sort out 230 thousand kuna and solve that problem? We will enter a system in which it will be seen only in the final results of all the failures of the proposed solutions. But what to hope for in the moments when Milanovic's SDP arrives at Racan's SDP by the number of unemployed, when the prime minister at a time when he should be clear and make fateful decisions for the future of this country leaves the country for half a month, it is clear that we have reached the bottom of the thinking and responsibility of the role we are given. This is a good topic of bread and games, you deal with associations, you deal with non-profit organisations, finance, and we'll solve important problems when I get back from the road. I think these failures of governments that have violated the stability and sustainability of state finances over the past two years suggest that the current government behaves as a man who has financial obligations that are increasingly difficult to regulate, so it starts to twist pockets, smash savings banks to find the last kuna to cover the failures of its financial thinking. So every association, church, employee, entrepreneur becomes a twisted pocket that this government is willing to twist, thinking that this way it will save a failed policy in these two years. Let's just remember colleges and trying to take back what they did somewhere in the Ministry of Finance that there's, like, a billion kuna that's been spent unintentionally in one way or another. But that story is obviously not over yet, we see from the daily signs that there's a lot more going on there. And finally to conclude. The church survived and their previous, will survive this game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73694	We're moving on to replicas. Dear colleague Gjurkovic first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73695	Thank you, Vice President. My dear colleague, you've gone a long way beyond this subject of the Financial Business and Accounting Act of Non-profit Organizations. Of course you've politicized the whole subject, etc. But the fact that we need this law, we need it. We also have a regulation and it is necessary to introduce a law that will regulate all these non-profit organisations. It is good to discuss it because many good topics have been opened both for the Law on Associations and for religious communities and for tourist communities and for various chambers that are also covered by the bill. Given that the first reading is quite clear that certain proposals to the second reading will obviously be complemented or modified and I do not think that the introduction of the principle of public and transparency which is one of the key things of this law is bad, but rather necessary and I think that most speakers here have said. Similarly, the register that will be run by the Ministry of Finance is public, that the part that non-profit organisations have to have audits to be published is as detailed as is necessary as is absolutely one statistics of all non-profit organisations in one precise and clear way that everyone knows how it is done. Therefore, this law is extremely important, extremely necessary and this debate is particularly good and I believe that I said that the Law on Associations will also appear in the Croatian Parliament so that it will be easier for us to decide on the matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73696	Answer, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73697	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Gjurkovic, I was talking about what is the most important part of this law, which is this 33rd article that we today have large majority of our debates and dedicated to because it is the most important one. All this other more or less no one's ever made too many remarks. But we have clearly warned that the issue of non-profit organisations cannot be addressed in this way. That's why I said we had a lot of thoughts and too little feelings. Because when the deputy minister came in, when he threw out the numbers that only he knew, which became available today in some way in this form, then we all wondered, so that's a really big amount of money. 13 billion, 4 billion, 800 million, 5 million. And we all started to deal with it. And no one left behind what they're dealing with? So do they do anything, do they do a certain job? Is everyone in the pay associations, is everyone in there just to make sure they don't have any interest or benefit? That went from side to side. We claim that this law as an ax to 230 thousand does not solve that problem. And especially not in sports and sports associations. Although these associations too, I believe and we believe here inside the HDZ Club was part of the reason why such a law is passed. It wasn't politics that attacked one club or one leader just like that. And no one can hide it. But if there were certain negative phenomena there, then it solves some other law. This cannot be applied equally to all. We can't think about a club in the county league and a professional club at 230 thousand kuna. And it needs to be removed. But once that article is removed, the point of this whole law is raised. And we'll see it very soon as we saw it in that law on the Dubrovnik Walls and that association that came to the threshold of the Constitutional Court, and if we'll see any further.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73698	Second replica, dear Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73699	I agree in one part with Mr. Boris, the church survived and the church will live and will somehow survive us all. But I'm glad that there's all the religious communities on the same platform, that all the unions found themselves on the same platform with employers, great. What were they on the same platform about? About the money. Speak up, Mr. I'll fight over a sense of reality. What is the reality in this country we will experience on Tuesday in the process of this FIMI MEDIA. But where did they all meet? They found each other one more time I'll tell on the money. 4.5 billion kuna is the income of NGOs. 13.6 billion kunas spinning. When we add money to the church, it's 16, 17, 18 billion kuna. 800 million kuna and mention the associations themselves have in their accounts. More than the state has money at this point in its account. They have 600 million kunas of armed money. More than the state has the money. 150 million kuna in shares. We have 197 religious communities, here I got this memo almost to sign everything they signed and those who here send us this memo in front of the church. And they absolutely need to be guaranteed this autonomy that will be guaranteed to them in the future. But I also have the impression that society in the country where we live simply needs to know how much money there is. Nothing more, nothing less. That's all. We need to know how much money he has. And on the other hand, I agree that it's not the same if it's a football club in Buzet or about Dinam. It's not the same if it's one thing I know about the birds' birds' association or whether it's some unions or employers' associations.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73700	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73701	Thank you very much. A fellow Caine, just one sentence. I'll say if you're going to save the state budget with a bill like you saved Mirna from the bankruptcy of your debates in this House, then bring it in, and you raise your hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73702	Next replica, the esteemed Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73703	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Boric, you said that the progress of society in all segments should be a common goal with all of us, I absolutely agree with that, and you mentioned a survey that showed too few citizens in this country participate in the work of associations, regardless of what they were called. I have understood your debate in a way that this law should create a better basis and better conditions for making the most of the citizens involved compared to that existing survey you mentioned. Now I'm asking myself and you, does this law really offer that? I don't think so, do you?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73704	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73705	So in my debate, I tried to explain at all what the target sector is today, the way it is financed, and I cited several levels because not all associations are financed in the same way and yet they are all put into the same basket through Article 33, and that is the danger that we rightly warn today. But what's going on? If this article is removed on the 33rd, then this law has no meaning, transparency, so we have transparency today, I don't really see that today it's impossible to control all these associations and then the deputy minister comes and shows all the figures in June almost, how did we get those figures if there's no transparency, did we invent them maybe? Well, somewhere those numbers are written down. I don't know any associations, we did some of them running certain business within the state administration, so no association could get the funding for next year unless they gave a financial report for the previous year. I don't know if local self-government is doing it, probably in the same way, so why are we criminalizing that sector if we know it's transparent and the minister here puts all the numbers in... and we say we don't know what's going on there. There's something else here. here is a small conflict with one individual, with some association and primarily with the church because it wants to put under control one segment and I say at the same time the state has not returned all the nationalised property, something is, but it is a large part but obviously not and everything and it is possible that some public activities are being carried out within those areas and that now the church to which it was taken has to pay again and tax on it, if that solution should continue but it all leads to something that we will witness over a short period of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73706	The last replica of Tomislav Jagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73707	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Boric, here you are, now in your final reply to the replica you said the part that you did not say in the debate and, therefore, the vast majority of citizens' associations, especially when we talk about sports clubs, all the smaller associations regularly submits reports to representative bodies so that they can achieve subsidies for next year as budgetary users. And it's not that controversial. This law as far as I understand it goes in two readings and wants to introduce order into this part and is not a problem in these small associations that they have, which are regularly patching up end-to-end to carry out their regular activities, is really a problem in those associations that are called non-profits and they are not because their activity crosses these frameworks. Why 230 grand, that's another question again. Whether representatives of the ministry will insist on it or not. But I wanted to say one thing that you said, I think you've gone too far and you've said it many times, and now by replying to the replica, this is a deal with a church that you said you've been so fiercely critical of the government and I don't know how you got that idea. The church otherwise in its address and church representatives say that the church is actually made up of all its, all of its believers, here you probably think of the Catholic Church and are usually being fenced, they say they criticise phenomena in society that are not in line with their teachings. So you can't put your views on the church's behalf that she's fiercely critical of this government and that it's a conflict exclusively with the church. As far as the church is concerned, I don't think there's that much resistance to this law, because there's a lot of things to their claims in their business that are transparent anyway. And in the end, when you're talking about the nationalized property of the church, so it's not since yesterday, so I don't know what's happened so far, why hasn't it been arranged so far, it turns out that now this government is so guilty after so much time that some things aren't in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73708	The replica corresponds to Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73709	Comrade Sagar, I can say what I think and what I need and I want to say here. That's my job. I've said my opinion and I believe that a large part of the citizens share it. Any local leader who has met with the financing of sports associations knows that in an area that is not pleasant at all and this law will not be resolved with 230 thousand kunas and this threshold nor by setting up any commercial companies in which some football clubs in the county league will set up companies or d.o.o. Like Heiduk today. I don't think that's the answer. And that's what the deputy minister obviously means who said he doesn't know whether it's good or not. We're just saying that this is a bad way to go and that the experiences we've been through over the past two years show that it's not good and that we have legal proposals that have had a negative effect and that this financial instability and the whole system can't be destroyed by everyday changes without seeing the whole space within which this non-profit civil society works. Because no one can measure the value of a fire company's business, some other association within local self-government because these jobs are almost immeasurable and they will neither be solved by a competition where they should appear as companies because they can't handle it and I'm rightly saying it. And the church certainly doesn't accept this because we heard what they think about this and that it's true that such a bill will bring dissension or almost destroy that third civilian sector, we'll testify when the law comes into force and you'll see what it looks like then.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73710	Last individual debate, distinguished Branko Hrg, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73711	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. He said just before that fellow Caine that the associations have as many accounts as you said 800 million kunas and that they do a good job. Perhaps it would be good for these associations to take ministers and set up a new government, perhaps they would better stand in the Republic of Croatia. I don't really know what the purpose of this law is, clearly? What are we trying to accomplish? Do we want to achieve that our associations work to develop volunteerism, to develop a voluntary association? Last night we spoke at the Youth Tips Act that young people should be included, that they should have as many as possible to volunteer to be involved in social life, today we are discussing a law that is unnecessary and harmful to me. So from the perspective of those small, those small associations of those collateral victims that will be, and there will be thousands, there will be all those little ones who are said to be here that there are no new costs, that it will cost nothing. It'll cost, if someone has to pay for bookkeeping, then they have to pay that cost and they have to pay VAT. It will also cost the part where practically the law of earlier years has prevented associations from being assigned spaces by local self-government rather than having to have contracts, must pay for spaces and must pay for VAT. And then we come to the fact that all of this naturally burdens the budget of the units of local self-government because as much money as it takes for the associations to have minimum standards of so much money, local self-government needs to actually give more to make me transactions with each other and 25 percent to give the VAT. My opinion is generally yes, and this has already been said here in several debates, that this law is unnecessary and that it really needs to be passed a new Law on Associations that will define these things that are being discussed here today. This way we go away all the time, and we're always creating a problem. Five to 500 thousand kuna fines. So when someone reads it in the law, and when they hear it, who's gonna want to be president of some charity club, some DVD in the end, who's gonna want to be? Anyone can make a mistake, anyone can make a mistake. People are not ready and able to do these things on their own and to do things under the existing law. It's what's causing them trouble. I know it from my own experience or are my foolsier than the others in Croatia but we constantly have the city's head of education with the presidents of the associations and after every such education when the head of finance explains what they have to do then great all of us will resign and I will no longer care. That's what's happening in the field people. Is that the goal? I'm sure he didn't. And that's why I think we really need to think very carefully about the need for a law like this at all, that we really need to make a new Law on Associations that defines all things and financial business and keeping records, and I don't know everything that we need and categorizing associations and possibilities of association. Let's say in this law, I don't know, I haven't been able to find out what's going on with the communities, let's say the community of fire, the communities of sports associations, there are members who are the same associations each of them registered for themselves, each one has a report, and the community unites all this together. Is it possible in law to provide that the practical community has one united financial report for them and manages the business? These are things that are present in the field to be taken care of and to know how and how it is done. I will say that I am concerned about associations in my city but also surrounding municipalities especially the municipalities is that lack of staff is even greater and there is an even bigger problem. Is our goal in these small areas in rural areas really and in that part of it we also suppress what little life is left. It's about the competition here, the catering competition, please, whatever it is to host competition not some DVD assembly when people at home take groceries, make dinner to invite their friends and guests and to agree on it, what kind of competition is that? If they had money, they wouldn't have done it. They don't have it from where to pay and it's causing them problems and I'm definitely repeating and apostrophe, so we're doing another law that's going to bring down a system of values for society. Associations, volunteering, amateurism is the value of society, let's not kill them with laws because at the top of someone wants to be reckoned with, and then there's gonna be a lot of dead people who get hurt, of course I paint myself. We keep stuffing up some new costs under law enforcement theory. I think that associations dealing with gathering young, sports amateur associations, fire associations, humanitarian associations should free all taxes and still give them money, not that one amateur club at the end of the year has a tax bill of 50 thousand kuna that has to pay, and he didn't pay the players just had to pay everything his laws and regulations had to pay. It's a club like that for two months. It happens on the ground, I don't know if you're aware of it but it's true, it's life and it's happening outside of Zagreb, outside of Rijeka, outside Split, happening in the rural part of Croatia in smaller towns and villages. That's our truth and that's what we have all the time. And that's why I'm repeating and I'm going to end up with it, so I think we need to simplify these little associations, maybe put these lower censorships, solve it all together with one law that makes it clear because we really need a lawyer in the association that's going to interpret all the regulations, rules and all the laws that put you up to if you're involved in some kind of social life somewhere and you want to do something about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73712	We're moving on to the replicas that are six. First Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73713	You're wondering what we're trying to achieve here, and you're finding out right away that this bill is unnecessary and harmful, and you're particularly concerned, you're saying what's going to happen to the perspective of small non-profit organisations. I'll answer you right now about your concerns, I think it's unfounded in terms of the perspective of small non-profit organisations. They were never discussed until the bill was proposed by anyone. For example, almost every city, a small larger city that has some perhaps renowned sports club that is defined or registered as an association, and basically makes a profit and the local community generally supports it with 90% of the resources it sets out for sport, and 90% of sports activities are small associations. They usually get between 1 and 10%. Who ever raised their voice for them? And that's the injustice. Your answer is simple, control, does not mean control does not know what but precisely to achieve the purpose of each association’s business, or activity. That's the point. I'm not saying, that's why we're going in two readings so that, there are also serious objections that have been made here, which have been made by GONG and I believe that the promoter will appreciate that because otherwise we will act on our own amendments. But this way forward, just because something is controlled, simply because you learned to control nothing, but believe me, forgive me, honor everyone but faith to anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73714	Replication response, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73715	Dear colleagues, everything is under control. It has been said here that you do not know how much money associations get from the budget, that you do not know how much they will get from the European Union funds. I mean, it's all known, so every lip has to be justified, they have to give their reports to everyone. Often, respected colleagues are discussing these associations and with all due respect to you, I would very much like to discuss the issue of amateur football clubs or some other clubs because I was at a meeting of sports associations in my Križevci the other night and we decided that it was best for us to disband everything because we can't follow it anymore. That's what we discussed. He was sitting with us and the vice president of the bar, so a man who understands himself a little more strongly in these things and he's a member and he agrees, so I'm just saying what's on the ground. Control, there's no problem with control, there's got to be control, there's got to be control, there's this problem being debated, and I'm really worried because I'm living it, because tomorrow I'll probably talk about it, which is going to be people calling me tomorrow, which is going to call me tomorrow and tell us let us help. I can't help it. In sport, it works through the community of sports associations. They are the ones who make the rules and determine how money will be distributed. There's a fellow mayor around here a lot, they all know that. They're the ones who deploy money, not local self-government units. They control it and there's never enough because there are so many rules imposed, so many laws, regulations, regulations, that you can't follow it anymore. Believe me, you can't keep track of what's being brought here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73716	New replica, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73717	No one has anything against the church, so to be clear, let them say whatever they want, I will always defend their right to represent freedom of word, but I will also compromise with them. But do we have the right to know who has the money in his accounts? Here is the church for a certain new form of organization, increasingly forming some companies, for example. in Dubrovnik, so now we have these disputes where even the DORH has become involved in some situations. So we have a Benedict case in Istria around Dale. So the church is also for a new form of organization when it comes to these entrepreneurial some of their engagements. Exactly, Mr. Hrg, once again, there are 800 million kunas in the accounts of the association at the moment. Perhaps some of these individuals should be included in this or some future government. But as you know, these associations have 20 times more in accounts than your Crossman has, so they have more in accounts than the budget of the town of Križevci. Here you can also help to simply engage them, to simply design that policy to run a particular city, to run a particular ministry, to run a country as a whole. The one who pays some contribution, I reckon he has the right to know what that money is for, and especially these few employers or citizens have the right to know what it's for. And speaking of these little football sports clubs, you know very well how to pay judges, delegates, coaches, athletes, gunmen. It's all more or less black, unfortunately, but that's how it works in this country, without taxes, without contributions, and maybe it shouldn't even be said, and in the fire department every budget of each municipality, each city sets out 5% of the total mass, and then these normal things happen in a very different way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73718	Replication response, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73719	Well, they've got associations in money accounts, they've got different things to say about the money situation in the account. The Association of Disabilities Križevci has a budget somewhere around a million and a half kuna. That's more than some municipalities have. And you know where they got the money? I don't know where they all came from, and they got all that money. They have 31.12 money in their account because, of course, the transfer of funds is next year because the programme is still going on. Now imagine how many of those, are they guilty of having that money? And what happens to them now? He's going to start a company now. They've already established a social entrepreneurship, but now they're going to have this problem under this article of the law. And as for sports clubs and football clubs and everything else, I'm not gonna tell you how judges and delegates are paid. I said in my debate that the football club, so in the third league, the amateur club that regularly pays everything over the bill has about 500,000 kuna taxes to pay. And it's a two-month life of that club. Here's a colleague from Ludbreg who can fill me in here, because we're close, and he knows that kind of thing. So, is it normal for sports clubs that bring together 150, 200 young people and children to pay their taxes, instead of freeing them from paying taxes so that they can gather and make healthy people out of them, to do prevention of addiction? Here's who we can set up. That's the point.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73720	Srdjan Gjurkovic will now be replicated.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73721	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, you spoke as if this were just the Association Act. This is not the Association Act, but here it is clearly said that the Accountancy Act is non-profit organisations and now it lists everything that falls into it. It also turns out, you say this will bring down the system of values of society. So we have a non-profit accounting regulation that's in operation, which we've heard from the opposition side as well. It applies well and is upgraded with this law and it is logical that we go with this law. And this Law is part of an action plan for the implementation of an open power partnership in the Republic of Croatia which is one of the fundamental objectives, transparency and public data, control through the Ministry of Finance. And whether Article 33, 9 or 14 will remain in this form or form is something that contributes to this debate and the public debate that will afterwards. However, the law should be passed, because it is absurd to talk about what we are talking about today about non-profit organisations, so we are not just talking about associations being regulated only by regulations, especially because the public and transparency were more than anyone else present. There were certain wishes for transparency and the public to be excluded from as far as I know the unions etc., for trade unions which is completely absurd in a society where there is nothing to hide and everyone does transparently and publicly. He should be commended with that information, and anyone who wants to hide means there are obviously some problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73722	Replication response, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73723	No one wants to hide anything from a colleague. We all said that. I said, I know well that you're not discussing the Association Act directly, indirectly. I just said it would be a much more normal thing to do with one law, the Association Act, and the things that concern associations under this proposed law. And, of course, it's good that it's a debate, because the debate turned out to be just as Boric earlier said he had no data, that we didn't know how much money he had, that he wasn't monitoring the financial operations of non-profit organisations, then he couldn't count these figures that he was talking about a little while ago, or they might not be correct. So, we're getting a little bit here to the weirdest points of view. So there's data, there's transparency. If she wasn't here, we wouldn't be talking about it today. I'm just warning and that's what's mine, which I have to say for myself. I warn that there are major problems in this sector, that associations in smaller areas will suffer, and especially in rural areas, especially sports associations and some similar, amateur, volunteers. Because no one will ever be president of such an association again, and when they see this fine of 5 to 500 thousand kuna, then they'll probably rush into that paper and say I don't care, I'm going home to my house, I'm not going to deal with it anymore. And that's true. If that's okay, it's not good for me and I don't think it's good to pass such a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73724	A new replica, a respected Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73725	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, my colleague Hrg, I am of those who will support the adoption of this law, with the desire to do another reading, some things that have been presented in the debate are further clear, and among other things, because I have been at the head of a sports club of amateurs, which was financed in part from the budget of the local self-government unit, and the other part we have managed sponsors, donations, etc. In the work of this club until this law and after this law I am deeply convinced that nothing will change. Why? Because each year we had to have, maintain a regular congregation or an election depending on whether it was every 4 years. Bring in a work report, substantiate a detailed financial report, draw up a financial plan and make a work plan. And then all those papers collected and sent to the competent office. That's when it comes to the local unit's budget. The second part that we're talking about donations, sponsors, and so on for any money received from any sponsor we've after, we've had a set of what we've been looking for and after we've done, we've been obliged to send a financial report to that sponsor. And if this is the law, and I'm deeply convinced, I've made order in all spheres my club has done so. But many others have not done so, fining reports, financial reports, etc. And because of them, I'm sure we need a law like this. And associations, how much do I know if they get funding from certain tenders, if they get funds and compete for European funds, so how do you think they'll report? So they must endure, the way they are spent, and the control of them will be done. I don't know why we're all running away from it and we don't think it's a bogeyman. Finally, someone in this country has set out to take care of the situation in this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73726	The replica matches Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73727	Yeah, you're doing us nice, that's right. I will not support the passing of this law from the arguments I have said, but I respect yours. Especially because you said that you yourself were in such an activity and volunteering for it. You made it with the sponsor. There's no sponsor today. And that's why the problem of 300 kunas a month is to pay for accounting to a club that barely collects and scraps 20 thousand kunas a year so that at all the most basic things that someone has given them to certain rules. We can say that's not true, that's not true, that where clubs like that are. And I can list it this way from your sleeves 10, 15, 20 maybe more. And that's the problem. So no one's running away from giving a report, but let's simplify that. Let's simplify that people can do it very simply, not according to all accounting laws so that in the end man can't do it. So, after all, he can't even do it, he'll have to give it to an accountant who has a registered company to do it. That's all he's in. So it's not the point of the story that we shouldn't report, of course we should. And of course she's giving up. And I repeat, they're obviously given if we have the numbers. And now I don't see what's going to change in that if we have all the numbers and by this law we're going to have what, some new numbers? But let's separate the ones you're piling at from the ones who are going to get hurt and not guilty. They need every kuna, they need a tax exemption if we want children and young ones to organize.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73728	Now the replica of Branka Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73729	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, you have dedicated your entire report to the role of the local self-government units related to this law, i.e. the proposal of this law, as well as to the Law on Associations. Of course local self-government units have a role to play in creating the conditions and lives of the organizations, that's our job. I agree, too. But I agree with you when you were talking about amateur clubs and taxes in those same clubs. I wish in this debate a number of fellow commissioners, the mayor of the coalition, had taken part in the ruling, and they know what this is about, don't they? Here's a football judge who's judging me, my friend Đuric, and he knows in the third lick if you're competing for one season that the club has to pay about 120 to 140 thousand kuna. At least that's in my lick, that's in Dalmatia, isn't it? So, just transporting 120,000 kuna. For one club to work, it takes a minimum in the third lick, I'm talking about football, 100,000 euros. So 750, 800 thousand kuna. Local self-government units do not have the fiscal capacity to finance the entire work of such a club. So we need to find the money at the sponsor's. You mentioned earlier that there was no sponsor. So, I have 200 kids at the club and are we going to leave these kids on the street now or are we going to fight for the life and work of a club like that? So everything that's being said is not out of evil intentions or evil intentions, but it means that those of us in local self-government didn't want us to have to deal with these problems and be part of these associations and we know what we're talking about life about. And the simplest thing is to discuss it based on theories. And that's very visible from the debates of these days that are being led here, isn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73730	The replica matches Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73731	That's right, today in these clubs, what our environments are like when someone stops being president then honors him because he's lucky he got rid of it, that he managed to get someone else to do it because nobody's gonna do it. But I'm expanding the subject a little bit, so I'm saying that it's important to be the Association Act with all these elements, not individual law. Because today, what about the stadiums? The stadium is a city example, that the city on the use of community sports associations, the community gives it to use a football club or athletic club and then of course we have to have a lease contract, someone has to pay for it. If you don't pay for the audit, he says you broke the law. You don't have a contract and there's a problem. Who pays who? The budget itself is that the money goes around and 25% of the fly goes to the state's cash register again. There's the problem. I mean, no one's got a bad intention, no one's against clear financial management, spending every kuna. Well, no one's against it. But I really don't believe that there's an opinion in state bodies that local self-government can't control organizations that finance. I really don't believe that kind of opinion rules. So we really have to invent how to keep it and maintain it and, of course, control it and ultimately pay the tax. That's the point. Let's cut taxes on these things, and that's why we need to define all the laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73732	Last line, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73733	Thank you very much. Well, you said in your debate that there wasn't enough sense for reality, and that's a fact. Do you think as I do that some official in Zagreb at the Ministry of Finance is thinking about what life is like in the Križevci, on Rab, in Benkovec, etc. Zagreb has everything to have on one high level and I'm not against it, let it be, but let us also allow us to organise life in those environments as we can with the funds we have and not that we have to have a director of a sports club, some football small club because it has an income of 240 thousand kuna so that we can even participate in some kind of competition. Well, that's bullshit. And the second is today the truth that the church has nothing against this law. Here I have a letter from the Croatian Bishop's Conference, the Federation of Baptist Churches in Croatia, the Islamic Community in Croatia, the Evangelical Church in the Republic of Croatia, the Evangelical Church in Croatia, the Episcopic Council of the Serbian Orthodox Church and the coordination of Jewish municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. They seek to delete Article 2(1) of the religious and other communities and seek a new item to read the provisions of this law do not apply to religious communities. It's just so much to see how serious we're talking about on this other side. They claim that this is not a conflict with the church and all churches tell me this law cannot be accepted because it does not separate the religious community from the association or non-profit organisation at all, and it should certainly be done in the light of some other special laws that regulate their status. So what now? We have to listen to all kinds of explanations and there's something else on the paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73734	The answer to this line, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73735	It is true, fellow Boric, the view from Zagreb does not go far. It does not go far and often forget that Croatia is spread throughout the area, unfortunately there are fewer people on the ground every day and that there are more and more in several cities, and that is why we have these problems, so we have non-life laws, so we have laws that create a problem in everyday life, and that is why we are here to point to these problems and failures and try to point out something in the legislation to improve, to be lifeless, to be applicable because there is no reason here to seek out any bad law but some better law, no one has, at least I have no feeling that I ever say anything just because I want to do evil to someone. I'm not gonna do anything to hurt anyone, but I'm practically telling them what's going on. I don't even know how to talk in the end, I'm saying what I see in life. And that's what I'm trying to say here. If that's bad, okay, I don't think it's because if we do laws that hurt people and citizens, then we don't do good laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73736	The final moments of this debate belong to Deputy Finance Minister respected Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73737	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here after seven hours just to thank you for the debate that I consider to have been quite correct and here I can officially request a phonogram from this session that all your proposals which have been concrete and related to certain articles, in particular Article 33 of this article, where the company, the question and these others are also related to the publication of certain reports of the type of union, etc., that we will consider until the next time that we will work and improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73738	I thank the Deputy Minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73739	Proposal for a law on financial operations and accounting of non-profit organisations, first reading, P.Z. No. 611. The debate on the proposal is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion. Proposal for a law on financial operations and accounting of non-profit organisations is hereby adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. By raising our hands, I'd like to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? What's the score? I find that most of the vote is 83 votes in favour and 23 votes against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73740	We move to the next item of the agenda - Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the main state lawyer of the Republic of Croatia is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 125(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on State's Attorney's Office. You've received the motion for an act. The previous opinion was delivered by the Committee on Justice. I ask if the proposing representative would like to further explain the proposal? Yes, Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunst, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73741	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At its meeting on 27 February 2014, the government proposed the person of the new chief state attorney, the current director of USKOK, in the person of Mr Dinko Cvitan. The proposal is based on his previous professional experience, expertise, personal and professional credibility so that this is the government's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73742	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? Yeah. Justice Committee, Honorable Joseph Kregar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73743	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, based on the Law and Constitution, Article 125. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth The law on the State's Attorney's Office, the task of the Justice Committee, is to give an opinion in the procedure of the appointment of the Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia. I'll shorten our proposal that you got on the bench but I can say next. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously voted unanimously with 9 votes to determine the previous opinion which supports the proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to appoint Dinko Cvitan as the head of state lawyer for the Republic of Croatia. The Committee unanimously, with nine votes for the proposal for a Decision, adopted the following amendment, the following amendment is added after the text of the decision to point 1 and above point 1 above shall be added to point 2 which shall read as follows: "Anointed to the duties of the Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia on 24 April 2014." In accordance with the provisions of the Law and the Constitution and Article 81(1), paragraph 6. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on Justice, has done its job by giving its opinion. I would just like to point out from the report that the Committee has very comprehensively considered the elements of the proposal for this decision, discussed the approach and found that it meets all the necessary conditions for the exercise of the role of attorney-general. The proposed amendment was proposed only to make it clear when the time is right, the date of entry of the new State Attorney's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73744	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, the respected Branko Vuksic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73745	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished deputy ministers, colleagues and colleagues. There won't be a long debate, just a few words. I personally and the club is pleased that there has been a replacement, so to speak, not to be replaced by an old state attorney who was three mandates, the mandate has expired, and I think the government has done well that it has not extended the mandate to Mr Mladen Bajic, we have explained on behalf of the club and in individual discussions why we think Bajic is responsible for everything that has happened back 12 years. If he had been a more determined man in that place, surely that perception and corruption in Croatia and that corruption itself would have been far less. All that Mr. Kregar said, I think we can support Mr. Cvitan because his biography is clean, he has the necessary qualifications, he's been doing this job for a long time, what we know about him is a determined man and we hope that by changing the head of the State's attorney that there will be far less sentences than she said the president of the state would have done earlier in a pot and that Mr. Cvitan would not calculate but would do his job with a warm heart, that he would be far more courageous than Mr. Bajic was. I hope the fact that Mr. Bajic will be his right hand or his deputy will not affect Mr. Cvitan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73746	I thank you on behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Grubisic and Caine will speak to the esteemed Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73747	Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament, Deputy Minister. I will still be a little longer because I really think this debate is not only about Mr. Cvitan but also about Mr. Bajic's work. And I, unlike maybe my predecessor, think Mr. Bajic did a big job after all. I can only repeat what I said and say that Croatia is a stolen country and that our best sons have stolen Croatia. She was destroyed, she was torn from the outside, but she was stolen from the inside. Clearly when I'm talking about it the same thing should be fair, we're all bloody under the skin and no one in this House, across the street from the government, I don't know somewhere else, and not even in the DORH is a saint. But you can afford someone maybe some lunch and another million euros. That other one will be a pillar of society, and you, I don't know, won't have a lunch tomorrow either. I don't know what to say. I'm following Mirna. I can't believe it, for example. How little it took to get to 200 million kunas in real estate legally. As long as it took, for example, for the whole of Croatia to turn from national or social to private. I'm looking at my Istria today, and individuals would buy real estate for 20, 30 thousand euros, today, and the same real estate, and we're talking about mayors, mayors, sales for a million, million and a half, three and a half million euros and nothing to anyone. All in accordance with the law and the best business practices possible. Did this DORH team make it? Someone wrote, I read somewhere that Mr. Bajić in some way, not him, but the whole team was changing Croatia and I really agree with that. True God, Croatia began to change late, that it has been since the 1990s, since the early 2000s and beyond, I think a lot could have been different and could have helped a far greater number of people. I would also dare say that it is probably the most ungrateful job, not in Croatia, generally the prosecutor's job. I think it's more or less clear to us, the job of the judge is ultimately, no matter what he makes the decision, which is responsible under quotes, yet in some way gentlemen's business. Clearly when we do, mainly with a case of corruption in politics and so on, there must be no mistake because mistake means ruined life for the rest of life, one Roncevic, one Herak, and I'm not counting any further. Just that DORH mistake or I don't know who you can't get off your face. That just follows you for the rest of your life, and that's why it's certainly better that a hundred guilty are free than an innocent in prison. What Mr. Bajic did, which someone should admit to him that he managed to curb corruption at the highest level and that is simply a fact. There is no corruption today, I am convinced at the top of this country, among the ministers, but there remains something else, in public enterprises, in local self-government, remains in municipal businesses. Today, we can polemize with what? Did, I don't know, someone operate on the President of the Republic's eyecap? So when an ordinary man in this land hears it, it is simply a flurry, so he cannot believe what we are doing at all or what individuals are dealing with. They almost set up or almost melt in a way that is not a disgrace to someone who simply imputes it. What am I saying? Corruption at the highest level in this country no longer sits, but I will repeat in public enterprises in municipal enterprises, local self-government is still in the situation. And there's your feuds and it's just untouchable. I think Mr. Cvitan recently delivered a message that he said made him think, that the problem today is with the local sheriff. I would also like to say that the DORH has done an extremely ungrateful job so far. In general, it may have been the hardest job in Mr. Bajic's mandates. He had to commit a war crime. And once again, I'm gonna say maybe it was the hardest job ever. Croatia was traumatized by war, Croatia had its own icons, generals among other things that had been devoid of the people to touch them at one point, it was not easy, and from there it began in some ways. I won't mention anyone's names here even though it should be said that in Dan Haag, innocent Markac, Cermak, Gotovina ended. The morning paper appeared to me on Saturday or Friday cited some 50 cases with which I do not know how much to look at now, the DORH dealt with the period over the last 10 years, and then said the arrest of Željko Kalabić the kidnapping of son Vladimir Zagorec, 5.6 million kuna, Bezovic case, Mate Granic affair, the case of Glavas, the affair of large-small Maestro, the action of HZ 27 million kuna, trucks, Split 28 million kuna, Brodosplit, the affair of Spice, etc. But I'm not gonna read it right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73748	We should discuss Mr. Cwitan now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73749	But you can't discuss Mr. Cvitan, because first of all, Mr. Bajic needs to be resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73750	No, he will not be resolved by anyone on 24 April.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73751	Yes, yes, that mandate. But no matter what, Mr. Cvitan was at the head of the SCOCK and what I think is the most valuable thing he's done at least when it comes to Istria, which was cleaned up by one of the Pulski departments of the fight against addiction. Although I'm saying that what he's done is only half a job from what's supposed to happen in Istria because you'll all agree there's probably no bigger problem in the larger community than drug abuse, that has to be solved. As someone will say there is no bigger problem than a corrupt politician, I say the bigger problem is if you have a corrupt police officer, prosecutor or if you have a corrupt judge. I also think that any change in the direction of the DORH would be counterproductive. This is one continuity but not only in the DORH but also in the change of Croatia, so I don't think there will be any problem between MPs to support the proposal from the Ministry or the Government or the Assembly Committee tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73752	Thank you. First we have business, don't give up. Let's go to the replicas. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73753	You say a colleague that Bajic has been head of the State's Attorney's Office since the 1990s, so that all of this doesn't happen, considering most of the robbery in conversion and privatisation. First of all, if he had been there then really wouldn't have been an opportunity to make it happen and well now says candidate Cvitan who speaks the time he's long lost with all our strengths won't be able to establish absolute justice. But you're saying that you're putting a burden on the State's Attorney's office that in some cases, the court has released either in this procedure or in that procedure they ended up freeing people who were actually convicted in a retrial. It's not something that goes on the prosecution's burden. The state's attorney's office is not a court, it doesn't determine guilt, it's a duty to act when there's doubt, when there's a reasonable doubt. And it doesn't determine guilt. So let's not confuse those two things and then often in the media depending on whether the wind blows on one side or the other and sometimes shifts everything and the court to the burden of what may have done wrong to the State's Attorney's office and vice versa. And you still say quoting Cwitan and a lot of others when we were talking about local sheriffs, but in the local community, there's no problem with a local sheriff. There's a bigger problem for the sheriff's union when they're joined by different positions of power, starting with the financial ones and then the ones that fall into power that have public authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73754	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73755	Yeah, well, it's either local or not at what level. Nowhere does one individual mean anything to himself and he can't do anything. But once again, what I'm saying is, exactly the court is judging, the state's attorney is simply suing, but we also have to make sure that these mistakes don't come about. Because if someone condemns you if you spend your life in an investigative prison I don't know how much time or I don't know where, and then the highest court releases you, you've ruined those people's future, life, family, and that's why you need to be as careful as possible. And it doesn't matter, whether it's Herak or Mr Rončević, whether it's one of us or one of the others tomorrow, it's a matter of taking care of it and no one is allowed to play with those powers he owns.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73756	New replica, the esteemed Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73757	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And fellow Caine, you've shown corruption in the local self-government reigns. ... Yes, it is, you just said, look at the record and see what you've said. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There are as many, 556 or as many mayors in Croatia. It is possible that there are such individuals, I suppose, yes, but all people who work responsibly to bring or put into the same basket are really not correct or fair of you, since you've never worked as far as I know in local self-government because the simplest thing is to sit in the Assembly here and teach lessons. A colleague of Ingrid's also called... local sheriffs. What right do you have to act like that?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73758	The replica matches Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73759	I don't know, I don't know who you're giving these remarks to, so you're sitting here and not one term but more mandates, so you could probably just try to get all this stuff that you're imputing to me or Mrs. Ingrid under your political engagement. I didn't say what you were imputing to me, but I was quoting, who I quoted, no less than Mr. Cvitan, and I said that in Mr. Bajic's mandate, corruption at the highest state level was simply resolved. She no longer reigns here, reigns elsewhere, reigns in local self-government. But where I said that all the people who work in the local self-government, and many dedicated simply give themselves to the community they represent, criminals, bandits or thieves, and that they should be tried. But once again, the problem today is not at the highest level but is in public enterprises, is in local self-government and is in municipal enterprises and we are all aware of that. But normally, capacities and state institutions, this repressive apparatus in the broadest sense, these words are limited.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73760	Comrade Cain, you are not private here, but you are a representative, so I would kindly ask you to stick to the better practices of this House, and when you address another representative to address him with you, no matter how good you are with another colleague. Now the replica will be presented by Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73761	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At one point, I wasn't sure if I needed to correct my colleague Caine or some newspaper I saw at one point that he was reading, but now it's clear that I need to correct my colleague Cain. My colleague Cain is of course known as a brave man in the political life of Croatia for a long time, so he is also known as a believer but until tonight we didn't know what a believer he was. It turns out that he is a very big believer, especially after claiming that there is no more corruption in the highest institutions of government in the Republic of Croatia and that he is still only at lower levels and that that is why people are then dealing with strokes. That kind of belief can only be given to those who are very great believers, so as not to use any other word. The nature of our society, the nature of socio-economic and political relations unfortunately, colleague Cain is not such that such a claim can be made and it will be a long time before it can be said. This does not mean that the systemic moment in corruption has been removed, unfortunately it is not in the state's attorney's office itself, let alone at the top of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73762	And the last replica, Drazen Djurovic. ... You haven't answered. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The last replica, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73763	Thank you. You said in your speech, here I will quote that Mr. Bajic managed to contain corruption at the highest level. In doing so, you probably thought of this current case of the former prime minister's pyramid, but I will remind you that at the entire time of the pyramid and of you and us who was at the time the state's attorney, and when it started to deal with the pyramid, therefore with a considerable time of latence and after the government's furniture changed and any political will to do so. And we can remember that time when this was happening and in what way was the state's attorney at the time and whether in any way he contained that corruption that was being talked about both in this Parliament and at that time. But you'd also agree with your colleagues when it comes to the notion of the local sheriffs that he really does not serve the people who use him or who you said he did, and you just transmitted that notion because if the local sheriffs, and then what are the federal sheriffs? I think it's bad actually to apply that termology at all because no one in the bar or in the public administration without, if you want in a corrupt sense without cooperation and with the elements of the repressive apparatus, and even a judicial apparatus does not actually have the leverage to carry out certain corrupt acts, and that these acts pass without any sanctions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73764	The replica matches Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73765	Mr. Pupovac tried to be funny but I don't think he made it, there you are. First of all, I don't think the top of politics in this country...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73766	You have to answer to this other replica, you can't... You can no longer answer to your colleague, Pupovci. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] Hold on to the Rules of Procedure, please, colleague Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73767	Okay, Mr. Djurovic. Yeah, we can talk about how he says latency. But Mr. Djurovic, when all these processes occurred, there was no change in government. The HDZ was in power then, if I'm not mistaken. And some in HDZ are that courage because they haven't tried to resolve perhaps Mr. Attorney General at that time and paid some status in the party.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73768	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS, a respected colleague of Jadranka Kosor will perform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73769	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I would very much like to have the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia with us tonight because the government is proposing a top state attorney, a new chief state attorney, because this is a proposal for one of the particularly important and particularly sensitive responsibilities in the Republic of Croatia. And since this is the original proposal of the Government which is here confirmed on the Committee on Justice, it would be good for the government to, of course, further ensure that this is a proposal which, better said absolutely and fully, will stand in political terms. Because the government, of course, is that with the Croatian Parliament that makes the laws, which must continuously strengthen what is called the political framework for the fight against corruption and crime, continuously strengthen this space, continuously public support all those whose view is that the government and politics must generally keep their hands and head as far away from the judicial authorities and thus prove it in real life. But the proposal is ahead of us. At first, of course, I will open up the important issue that should not be avoided because this is about a proposal for a new chief state attorney, which means that Mr. Mladen Bajic's mandate definitely ends. We, since such laws are of course, have not received any answer as to why the law or the Constitution does not prevent it. Mr. Mladen Bajic could not continue to act on that duty, so he gets a new mandate. Why would I bring that up? Because I think it's time to open not today, but to discuss in general the uniformity of standards for the highest duties in both the judiciary and politics. So if the term of office of the President of the State is 8 years, i.e. 10 years or so 2 consecutive mandates, then we could be quite sovereign without anyone accusing us of opening a debate on whether it can be changed in this regard, we would have to change the Constitution, but then, of course, adequate laws regarding the function, or the duties of the President of the Supreme Court, the Attorney General, etc. But for some future time. I want to say one more time here what I think is good, because we usually tend to do it when someone's mandate is over, when someone's done a job no matter how much they did it, and how well they did it, we usually just turn a new leaf or we open a new book, and we forget the past. It should be said that Mr. Mladen Bajic was a good state lawyer, competent. I think you should think carefully when either of us is talking about his selective or selective approach to the State's Attorney's Office that it can be interpreted as a political pressure in any way. So absolutely. We need to be very careful when we talk about independent institutions like DORH. Mr. Bajic, of course, played an exceptional role together with Mr. Cvitano in opening and closing Chapter XXIII, but also much wider than that. So, in fulfilling the many standards that we would open this chapter and then use a number of criteria to close that chapter. It was the chapter of all chapters, the mother of all chapters. And without the coordinated cooperation of all the responsible judicial authorities, we would not have opened this chapter, let alone closed it. The hardest because it included a war crimes trial, an investigation process, but also a fight against corruption and crime. He had a great and uncontested reputation among our allies and of course it was not irrelevant. And that's why I'm glad the government decided on, in the policy proposal, continuity. Because Mr. Cvitan was also absolutely certain and undoubtedly an extremely important link in the process, they worked together. So, one without the other would certainly not have been successful, and the BOOK and the DORH are, of course, the components of that great corps that participated independently of politics, but depending on Croatian interests. And the Croatian interest was to become a member of the EU. It's a good thing the government resisted the siren call, and that's how it's always in politics to propose for the role of a top state attorney to someone who would be in any way, I'll use that word, and you'll understand that it's not in a bad way. So, contaminated by politics, someone from the world of politics or someone who would be perceived in public as close to these or those ruling circles. I think it's a good decision, it's good to propose a person from the system. So, a person with extraordinary experience and knowledge. What I think we can say for sure about Mr. Cwitan, is that's what I said today on the Justice Committee. As a witness to what was done in the negotiations, but especially in chapter XXIII, I think I can say that it has shown exceptional both energy and knowledge, but also enthusiasm. He showed it today by presenting himself on the board. Motivation, it is extremely important in every job especially in this difficult business where you never actually get a reward, where rarely when or almost never you get a commendation, where you are constantly exposed to lights, or reflectors that shine on you from both political and media and each other and where no one is absolutely satisfied with you until the end. That's why it's important to be motivated, to be determined, Mr. Cvitan, it's also uncompromising. I've already seen a lot of people talk about it, it's going to be a different style. Well, of course, I think it would be a bad idea for us as agents to engage in facial psychoanalysis. That's unnecessary. It's important for us to be professional, and I think that in this business it's a very important continuity because the State's Attorney's Office and the SCOTT have given us the right to all of us who claim to have done good so far. I'd just like to point out something here that Mr. Dinko Cwitan himself pointed out by presenting himself on the Justice Committee. He said something very important that we pay very little attention to. So, DORH, the State's Attorney's Office is a law enforcement body. But the State's Attorney's Office is not an island and the USKOK is not an island, but rather relying on other bodies that are actually logically things and within the legal frameworks to explore. So, the police, too. Mr Cvitan also mentioned well the CNB concerning one current case still under investigation, the State Audit, etc., etc. He made it very clear that the fight against corruption remains some sort of main goal, therefore forte and in his work. He mentioned and actually praised the Parliament that changed the Constitution in 2010 and decided that robbery in privatisation and war profits do not go out of date. He said equally well that it is very difficult for time to pass more than in the case of war crimes proceedings to reach witnesses and relevant facts. So I think we can wish him success. It is important that the work and the new chief state attorney Croatian Parliament monitors the uninterrupted open for possible changes to the law, to further strengthen the state's attorney's office and I think here I will now try to be a bit funny, that we do not need Elliot Ness in Croatia. So it doesn't have to be Elliot Ness, it's important for criminals to be stressed forever. So I think it's very, very important because I think it's a bad thing to compare such a serious duty with and most of the way I know how to meet that person or person just by watching movies, so compare with some movie characters. What I end up having to say is worrying. In fact, today we are discussing a new chief state attorney, tomorrow we will assume to vote on him, but he will take office on 24 April. It's a time in which we can come to what we can call a weakness of institutions. So we'll have one state attorney who's acting his duty and another who actually chose the Croatian Parliament. That's why I want to, and I'm sure it will be just like before, and Mr. Bajic and Mr. Cvitan are working as a team. Mr. Bajic is leaving but remains, so he will be deputy because that is what the law says, and I would like them to really work as a team fully resistant to all the pressures that I am unfortunately convinced they will be in this period and especially during that period. We will vote for Mr. Cwitan as the attorney general and I believe he will do his duty well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73770	Thank you very much. We have reports of replicas. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73771	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Kosor, I hope that this shift, or appointment of Mr Cvitan, will take place on the 28th of April, as you said, while Mr Bajic may still be in the post. So, I don't think there's any air space between those two dates of the month, say, 50 days, right? Secondly, you said you didn't have the perception that it would be some Elliot Ness, we could also look at the role of Poirot and I don't know, or maybe it would be good to mention Steven Segala. Sadly, though, such methods he applies in our society seem impossible, and it would be good to apply them. But what you were saying was that the success of these two could not have been without the teamwork of one and the other or without the help of one another. But of all things, public perception is the most important thing. Maybe me or someone else is looking at me differently than the public. In fact, at a time when citizens consider events in this country as barbaric kleptocrat, as unconstitutional nepotism and clientelism in this case the government and the name of a state attorney you understand? So, the perception of the public about the phenomena and phenomena in society as one society to say barbaric kleptocracies, ruthless kleptocracies, nepotism, clientism and all the exceptions that arise, thus creating a picture then and the very choice of a new chief state attorney. That's what's important and what's up with citizens. You said yours, didn't you? It is clear that motivation and ferocity in the work of a state attorney also creates enemies, therefore personal enemies, etc. But that's another topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73772	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73773	My colleague Grubisic, I'm not sure I understand you very well, so what kind of dispute if it is that Mr. Bajić remains Deputy Mr. Cvitan in the state's attorney's office, that's what the law says, and so he becomes a deputy, and I don't suppose there's anything controversial about it. If it's about perception whether they're you, so I think that perception is a long time ago, I'd say it's a long time ago because I was just trying to explain it, so on chapter 23, there was a huge amount of work involved in opening that chapter, closing it down and becoming a member of the EU. So he figured out how to work both the state's chief attorney and the director of USKOK. They are a team, the whole state's attorney's office has to be a team, the more involved that team, that's of course got bigger results. But often, if you think about it, the perception of the public differs from what is possible, that is, from what is possible. The fact that the public thinks someone should be imprisoned, convicted of not knowing for 40 years is one thing, and the evidence collected by the BOOK, evidence that has DORH, evidence that allows someone to be investigated, and then, to be a suspect and eventually to be accused and to come, that's something else. And that's why, but that's the results you saw in the report. So there are very few cases that fall into courts. I think that's how it's supposed to be done, so those who the DORH have to be fully convinced that they finally have to press charges. And finally, I hope I didn't say what you just said, so not 28.4.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73774	Thank you very much. Dear representative Vesna Fabiančić-Krisjanić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73775	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's my colleague Kosor, I had a need to clarify very often you were also saying they were a team, Mladen Bajic will be his deputy and then he's a public perception and we can see it in the media, now Dinko Cvitan will become the state's attorney and Mladen Bajic will be his deputy. Of course, it's specified that when his attorney-in-chief ends his term as deputy at the State's Attorney's Office, but at least let's be precise here and then the public will be properly informed. The state's attorney's office now has, not counting USKOK 21 deputy state's attorney. This way, when we speak Mladen Bajic will be Deputy Dinko Cvitan, the impression is that there will be only one deputy state attorney, so I think it's very good to inform the public that then we will say to the end what it means to be the deputy attorney general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73776	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica is a respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73777	Well, to agree with you, I think it's kind of a notorious thing, but I agree with you, especially here are my lawyers, and I think there's a lot of us in the House that we have to repeat it so that we don't stay the wrong picture. Of course it's not about mere replacement, it's about the law, and it's about the fact that the deputy is a large number, and that they're all the same levels, so there's no deputy first, second and third order, that's also a fact. And that Mr. Cvitan will be elected chief state attorney not because they have decided to replace themselves but will be decided by parliament, if this parliament and if the MPs so decide then it will be so and if it does not decide then it will not be so. And the government is also legally authorized to propose. So it was in the last term, and so it is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73778	It is up to the HDSSB Club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73779	Thank you very much President-in-Office of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the time has gone a little further and the subject is already being discussed for days. As usual, everything always comes down to politics, politicisation and everything that shouldn't actually be in the Croatian State's Attorney's Office. First, not to talk too much about the ex-boyfriend and make it look bad without talking too much about the new ones so it doesn't turn out too good to brag about someone. We want the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia to protect the most important vital interests of our country and to successfully combat the prosecution of the perpetrators of criminal offences. What success this will be, we will see in the reports that will present to the Croatian Parliament, and this will be for 2014 so next year we will hear about the success, the results of the new main state attorney's office. What should be mentioned in particular, Mr Mladen Bajic has not been removed but has expired his mandate. For eight months already, the HDSSB club has a law in the procedure of the Croatian Parliament, a draft law amending the Law on State Attorneyship where it proposes to restrict its mandate to the main state attorney to a maximum of two consecutive terms of four years, which would be 8 years. Then we would avoid what Mr. Mladen Bajic experienced, which is that the media and the public are talking about his shift, not for 12 years the state's attorney-in-chief and the message of precisely this HDSSB's proposal to amend the law is that the long term mandate creates possible doubts that can be justified, but also unwarranted to someone who has done their job more or less well. Life is full of ups and downs, successes and failures, and sometimes success in proving the actions that eventually come before courts depends on what evidence is available when facts are established, evidence in criminal proceedings to ensure successful and effective prosecution of the perpetrators. We are witnessing that there are major problems within the National Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia and that the job and the new, future chief state attorney, Mr. Cvitan, is in one hand difficult and responsible, and on the other hand we, the Croatian Parliament, which should have provided instruments, primarily, are instruments to follow through the report on the success of the work of the attorney general, but the Government, when deciding on financial resources for the chief state attorney and attorney, needs to provide sufficient resources because, above all, this factual evidence procedure has changed the circumstances of the time in which we live, the modernisation of the system and... criminal acts that appear in the Republic, should be ensured primarily effectively, technologically modern, and above all by professional State attorney and state attorney. If we're going to invest in excellence, independence of the state's attorney and the state's attorney's office as a whole, then we need to ensure that the means for this to work as such. These are some of the challenges we heard in the state's attorney general's report. To return to our proposal, by limiting the mandate, we have avoided political pressure on the main state attorney primarily because every single majority, whether she wants it or not, stems from the Parliament's majority. In most cases, the former Mr. Mladen Bajic's report, the main state attorney, passed through the Croatian Parliament, was unanimous, was restrained, whether it was noted, he could not have acted for 12 years if the report had not received support in the Croatian Parliament, and we would limit the mandate to the main state attorney, we would have provided less pressure on him personally, we would have increased the efficiency of the State's attorney's office as a whole and we would have avoided these day-to-day political discussions whether a procedure was initiated because of someone's name and last name, political belongings and so on, it should be independent, professionally and professionally, and I am sorry that we did not discuss this idea of what we consider to be really good. We all work together to give our contribution as a Croatian Parliament, before we change the Croatian Constitution, to intervene in Article 125, to increase the powers of the State's Attorney's Board of Attorneys to monitor the state's attorneys and deputies of state attorneys, to carry out tight procedures, to ensure the means of professionalism, to technical equipment of the State's Attorney's Office and to the excellence of those who are educated, to educate for this system and to introduce people, to graduates, who speak several foreign languages, who unfortunately sit at home today at the Employment Office to get the opportunity to, therefore, get their school and expertise to show in the State's Attorney's Office that they can contribute to the protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia. As for Mr. Cwitan, he answered questions before the Justice Committee today. We believe that the Justice Committee has well assessed, we have seen that this has been adopted unanimously, and on the problems of his work, on his success, on whether this so-called success will succeed. The pressure of politics on him, justified or unwarranted doubt that this is the case, we'll see it on his report next year, but let's let the man do his job and protect what his job is, which is vital interests, and let us allow the State's Attorney to do his job independently and freely. Then we will have the opportunity to really do so independently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73780	Thank you, too, dear colleague. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is the SDSS's Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73781	Your Honor, Mr. President, the esteemed Deputy Minister, the esteemed remaining colleagues and colleagues. The election of a state lawyer by the Republic of Croatia should be one of the most important topics in the debate in the Croatian Parliament and its annual report, however, that is not the case. For his part, this House has come to terms with the fact that this choice has been made, and that we need more or less to participate in the ritual... of speech. Perhaps I am saying too soon, perhaps the most important things we will hear from the remaining speakers, above all from those who speak for the SDP and those who speak for themselves, especially those who speak for HDZ. As for the proposal to appoint chief state attorney Dinko Cvitan, the SDSS club will support the proposal. We'd like to say something to the team that will go beyond the usual speaking of the characteristics of any candidate, any of his predecessors, about what we believe to be done, not what's done, but what's left to be done. And there is no doubt that if progress was measured from the period when, say, the state prosecutor was Vladimir Seks until the time of the term of office of Mr Bajic, then progress can be seen. But, of course, these are not relevant criteria, and so does fellow Shakespeare, as far as I can see. But I hope you don't mind me saying he was a state attorney, but those are facts. As for what needs to be done here, the debates on the state's attorney's report have repeatedly established as the State's Attorney's Office suffers because it lacks sufficient resources to do its job properly, which is not equipped with necessary equipment, necessary technique and necessary organisational assumptions that it might do its job. I think this is an important topic for us MPs and MPs, especially before the budget rebalancing and especially before any vote of the budget. And that it's kind of our debt to the State's Attorney's office and, of course, to the work of the attorney general himself, that he has the means to do his job. The second thing that seems important to me is the unification of the work of the State's Attorney's Office, especially of the Deputy State's Attorney's Office in the Republic of Croatia. as the first believer here was among the MPs in today's debate, colleague Cain said that the problem is no longer at the top of the government but is now a problem at local levels of government, so we could say that it is no longer such a problem with the attorney general and his office, but when we look at the uniformity of the work of his deputy municipal attorneys, then we can see that the practice is very, very different. And what Mr. Cvitan said as USKOK's chief of staff, local self-government heads may be a little more bold, and the MPs may not be allowed to do so, could say that among the deputies run by the municipal state's attorneys there are also locals, so I won't tell the sheriffs but people with extraordinary powers who may be in some kind of hearing and connection with the local sheriffs. Therefore, this practice should certainly be evened out and the mandate of the new state attorney should be dedicated, and should his previous ones not have been able to do so because of the large, large representatives of corruption, for example. The third thing that seems important to me is, of course, the issue of a war crimes trial that has not yet been completed in the Republic of Croatia. We are following and we are very committed to these lawsuits that exist and are currently taking place before the International Court of Justice, but when it comes to the satisfaction of justice and the protection of legality in the Republic of Croatia, then unfortunately we no longer have that kind of enthusiasm. Why the Levar case isn't interesting anymore, why the Guild case is no longer interesting, that I don't list further different cases that represent very drastic and difficult forms of crime, that in war crimes committed in different war operations I don't speak. The 4th thing I would like to say when it comes to the protection of legality, there is no doubt that legality is not only broken in the gray zone or in the clear black area of corruption when political actors and political authorities are affected. Legality is also violated in the sphere of economic business, and not only with money, with taxes, but also with the protection of those who need to be protected as workers. The State's Attorney's Office should do much more than it's done so far. And finally, the question of hate speech, intolerances that should be prosecuted by official duty as they used to be spoken. There's hardly anyone who can say that we've gotten some special results, difficult. Try to do it with Zdravko Mamic as a man who has been accused of being a Serb, who is otherwise on city facades as a Serb and as a Chetnik, of course, was a rather unsuccessful attempt at the problem. The problem is much more serious, not to individuals, but to organisations and institutions that do not prevent hate speech or call for violence from public television, which lets calm souls go public and, of course, those institutions that were spoken about in the previous point, and when it comes to tax, the supervision of the financial operations of NGOs, since large football organisations that earn millions of euros and dollars by selling players in our country are still some kind of NGOs or associations of citizens. So in this matter and on this issue, the State's Attorney's Office has not yet had any particular activities or special success. We may be used to the fact that it is normal for young people to glorify or celebrate those who are representatives of criminal regimes, but there is no doubt that the State's Attorney's Office should punish it or prosecute it on official duty. This will certainly be agreed by my colleague, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, because not only is there not due to the need for doubt but there is an act, then there is no need to seek doubt but only to take this work and start working on it, and this is not happening, as is not unfortunately not the protection of workers and workers when they are in the process of their rights. It's not happening, and it's one of the most difficult forms of violations of legality as we know in our society. One of the most serious reasons for losing and losing jobs is that, but we'd rather be here in this House accusing each other of being incapable of being us as a government today or as a government tomorrow as a government, but where are the real difficulties and where are the real problems in this regard we won't see it. These are some of the points that we believe at the SDSS Club that the jobs that stand before the state's attorney and we expect that the candidate for the office of attorney general Mr. Dinko Cvitan, and these issues, these problems of Croatian society as well as of course others, will pay due attention and not only that he will not be a man of continuity, that is, if he is a man of continuity, he will be a man of advanced continuity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73782	Thank you, too. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73783	Thank you very much. Dear Pupovac, I agree with you extremely, especially in that part of the debate where you talked about equating the work of the state's attorneys, but I'd like to extend it a little bit to evening court practice, so evening the work of the courts. It's all really connected to each other so much that I'd say it affects each other. Because here in recent history, two or three months ago, we were faced with different court practices in extremely sensitive cases, and that's something we also need to talk about completely openly. This is one of the problems that leads to legal uncertainty, but it also opens up a number of other problems that always return to political spheres at first and finally. I agree that there are many more open questions, so you mentioned some cases that we're still talking about in the sphere of speculation. That's where I'd mention the problem and the murder case... etc., etc. However, of course we have, and I agree with you, for years we have made progress and have taken steps at a pace. You mentioned Mr. Seks' time as chief prosecutor, so here's to Mr. Bajic. I would say that, you said that Mr. Shakespeare was something but knowing him should never be said only that he was, it's possible that one day some of it will be again. You didn't hear it now because you were talking to a colleague, but, well, I think my colleague Shakespeare heard it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73784	Replica's response, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73785	I agree with you colleagues Kosor, with the fact that, of course, equating work in the area of the state's attorney's office will solve only partially the problem, and the one that needs to be done by the Supreme Court is just waiting for his job to be.... It seems particularly important to me that this is done, and I think it would be important that we do so too, that at least one committee, perhaps this committee leading a colleague, Kregar, consider the question to what extent are the speeches of some judges who have recently come forward more politically than those of some of us who are talking about a pay phone that is political by nature or we come out in public in the nature of things, and less legal than some of us who are talking about the legal issues here. This is a serious issue and a serious topic and as long as it is so that the world will have or the people feel that one branch of government is governed by one side of the political scene, and the other side is governed by the other branch of the political scene, so far we will call for equality of judicial practices and independence of judicial proceedings. Judges should not participate in political games, and if they decide to do so then there is no doubt that they should be ready to receive the kind of message that is appropriate in that kind of game. And our experience says she's pretty low.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73786	Dear representative Vesna Fabiančić-Krisjanić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73787	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's my colleague, Pupovac, who would have shown himself to be part of your presentation in which you were also talking about equating labour efficiency, as you said, the deputy attorney at the county and municipal level. Of course, the attorney general can and must at the end of the day, that's what I said in the report on the work of the state's attorney, make sure that this efficiency is equal and there's no big discrepancy in that, but the only instrument that he has in it is in that surveillance and in the launch of potentially strict proceedings against county and municipal state attorneys. Because municipal and county state attorneys are not his deputies and county and municipal state attorneys elect the State Attorney's Council. So, the only instrument that the chief state attorney according to their work has is to oversee them in work and possibly propose tight measures against those municipal and county state attorneys who are unconsciously carrying out their duties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73788	Replica's response, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73789	So I could just say that I actually agree with you, and I can only add that for the State's Attorney General and the State's Attorney General, it's much more important that he manages the system of state attorneys than the media processes. Because managing media processes can be very dangerous for the very judicial thing and for the very protection of legality, and also for the main state's attorney, because media space is one dangerous space where you don't know at the end who's going to manage what, whether media space is you or you're media space. However, what you said is something that is repeated from the report in the report, and we see it, and it is also seen by the fact that in the case of a war crimes trial or in the case of jumping cases, all courts are not credible enough to carry out these tasks, or all attorneys are not credible to take it upon themselves, as not all courts are credible to take it upon themselves. And it must be one of the red lights for us when it comes to how uniform the practice of the work of the state's attorneys, or courts, is.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73790	Dear Representative Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73791	Thank you very much, fellow Pupovac, you said when you compared this top executive authority to local officials, and then you transferred it to the work of the State's Attorney General and those in the counties, so county state or city state attorneys, compared their work or maybe not to these local ones. So it reminded me of a situation where, therefore, both on official duty and on application in Slavonski Brod in wartime events in the fire and air raids of the Banja Luka Corps in '92. in the period from 8 March to 18 October 1992. 28 children died, a whole class of children. And to this day, so 22 years after the war, I don't know whose to say under quotes we don't have the credit, so the charges against neither the known nor the unknown perpetrator. I wouldn't go into who's responsible for this, although I do know that every application received by the County State's Attorney's Office is being consulted by the attorney general for any criminal charges.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73792	Replica's response, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73793	As I told you when you first mentioned this case of war crimes in the Slavonski Brod area, I believe that this crime should be punished and sanctioned. Unfortunately, he is not the only case of unpunished war crimes, either according to members of Croatian nationality or members of Serbian nationality. The problem is that we have rarely had the impression of all these long years, we can say for decades that the state's attorneys have served more to produce a campaign in a war crimes trial than to determine the real suspicions of the perpetrators, moving away from the real war crimes and acts that you've been saying. And that's why we mentioned it in our speech, expecting Mr. Cwitan to commit himself to that and, of course, to initiate a procedure for determining facts and looking for witnesses who would be credible for the actions he should be conducting.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73794	Dear fellow MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73795	I agree with you colleagues when you talk about this very relationship between the media and this sometimes grateful, and most often ungrateful work. But this job is not done with gratitude or ingratitude, and it seems to me that it is essential that the head person is able to resist that siren name. Because we see how in the end no matter how much credit it ends. You say when I spoke alone, so you pointed out in your discussion the relationship between actions and suspicions. Of course, at times the work is so obvious that it is merely seeking doubt about the person who did it, it has committed such an act to initiate the procedure. But remember 2000. We've had a big fight here, that we're even talking about war crimes being committed. We weren't supposed to say that, but if they were committed with the apparent decapitated heads and all the crimes that took place over members of various nationalities. So from that day on until today, I agree with you, there's a lot of work to be done, a really strong movement has been made. Let's just remember the situation when the State's Attorney's Office pardoned, had the right to propose, and then the head of state pardoned people from criminal proceedings. How once a father of a girl who got hurt at a walking distance of 11 years I could tell you listen, there's not gonna be any business going on. The man just went crying and said so he's got the chicken. So we can remember to see what we've done and what business is ahead of us from those points that we started, and we didn't start until 2000.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73796	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia club in the Croatian Parliament, Peđa Grbin, a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73797	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear Madam Deputy, dear colleagues and colleagues. The State Attorney's Office shall be empowered and obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences, to take legal action in order to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia and to submit legal remedies for the protection of the Constitution and of law. In short, we can freely say that the State's Attorney's Office is one of the guardians of the Republic of Croatia. The head of state's attorney as head of the body responsible for its successful work and operation for a period of 4 years is appointed by the Croatian Parliament. There is an extremely important and responsible duty in the last three mandates, so over 12 years, some would say the respected Mr. Mladen Bajic acted. A whole series of criticisms were brought to his account, and we heard a whole series of praises. But what we certainly need to conclude is the fact that in 12 years as Mr. Bajic was head of the State's Attorney's Office, it grew into a respectable organisation, a respectable judicial body which, as we have heard from the debate of previous colleagues and colleagues before that, was not. That is why we must thank Mr. Bajic and congratulate him. But we also have to ask ourselves what kind of state's attorney we want in the future? Our position, the position of the SDP, is that the state's attorney we choose has to secure two things. And that is the continuity of the work of the State's Attorney's Office, so to ensure that the State's Attorney's Office continues to work, that there is no interruption that would be caused if a person who is not familiar with the system was appointed to the State's Attorney's Office or unprofessional, but even more importantly to maintain and raise the quality of that work. We at the SDP Representatives' Club believe that both of these requests have been obtained in the person of the Director of USKOK, so in the person of the proposed candidate for chief state attorney in the person of Mr Dinko Cvitan. His qualities are so much said in public and in this House. What we know about Mr Cvitan is that he was more than successful in running the BUSKOK, that he was more than successful in running a judicial body that was very helpful in Croatia's path to the EU. The expertise and quality of Mr Cvitan's work is also visible from the European Commission's report on the fight against corruption across the EU, where USKOK is set as an example of good practice among Member States, i.e. as a body that has recorded a number of successes in the proactive approach to investigations and in the successful processing of criminal offences, including those relating to senior state officials. These are not my words, these are the words of the European Commission, which set the work of USKOK as an example to be led by other EU Member States. So, Mr. Cvitan's work so far, and his visibility in the public as well, and this is extremely important for the work of the State's Attorney's Office because the recognizability of this body, the recognizability of the effective work of that body, leads to the fear of committing criminal acts in a whole series of people who would potentially do so. So, Mr. Cvitan's recognizability, his work assures us that the State's Attorney's Office will continue to be able to do its job successfully and in quality. And that's why we at the Club of Representatives of the SDP think Mr. Cwitan should be supported for the head of state's attorney of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73798	Thank you very much. One replica, respected representative of Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73799	I agree with these latest assessments you said about Mr. Cwitan as a person who at this point fits the profile of a man who needs USKOK. But I wouldn't agree with the part where you said we were recognized in the world as a country that could be an example to others. Look, if everything was the way you said it was, that everything was as seen in the world we wouldn't be a highly corrupt state. We are a highly corrupt country, and if you think that burying your head in the sand reduces corruption in Croatia, I think you're wrong. Everything that's happened in recent years, and that first part when you said that a lot of things happened in the DORH, the first six years were evaluated whether it would end up in a pot or not end up in a pot if it was corned. I think we made a huge mistake, and now the consequences are almost indelible. I really want as much as you do Mr. Cwitan's successful work and I want him to be much, much better than Mr. Bajic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73800	Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73801	Dear colleague Vuksic, I'm sorry you didn't listen to me a little more carefully. I am not the one who set the Republic of Croatia as an example of fighting corruption, it is not on my mind. We still have a lot to do. But right in the field of fighting corruption, we've made some progress and made some progress. What I've quoted is not my words, it's not my idea, it's what the European Commission recognized as good. And that's not the only thing. Of the 25 examples of good practice in the EU Corruption Report, as many as 2 come from the Republic of Croatia. And that's what we should be proud of. And what's wrong, we have to make it right. What we should be proud of is the work of the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime. Mr. Cvitan was at the head of that institution. I don't know, nor can anyone know what kind of Mr. Cvitan will be the attorney general if we choose him. We'll control that every year by studying his work report. But what's the fact is that his work so far gives us all the assurances that we're choosing a good person and that we're choosing a person who's going to help make what he's done so far in the fight against corruption continues in other areas of the fight against crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73802	Thank you, too. HNS club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73803	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. As if in this situation of chamber debate,... we forgot about the fact that there is no major dispute over this appointment, it seems to me that it is missing and it is a very important matter of the state's attorney who is part of the judicial or judicial structure of the Republic of Croatia in somewhat better or closer to acceptable relations with the government, elects the parliamentary majority, only by half the votes, unlike the judges of the Constitutional Court who are elected by a two-thirds majority, and there may be a conflict. The situation seems to me more thanks to the people who have acted on this duty than our ability to find a common solution over the past three years, so in the past three appointments including this, the Republic of Croatia did not have that problem, and that is an important issue, it is an important thing that we are in. These relations are very easy to disrupt which, of course, makes it immediately difficult for that lawyer to function, but it seems to me that the profile of the people concerned in the last three appointments, so in two cases Mr. Bajic and in one case, this case Mr. Cvitan is actually crucial that in itself should not only be the wind in the back of the work of a state lawyer but probably also some need of the quality of the choice, even though all our compromises are not solid compromises, healthy, we know about the appointment to do very rotten compromises. When we speak then it no longer matters who it is, and here as far as I know there was no special agreement, I suppose it was some kind of communication and yet for this appointment we seem to be a more or less large majority of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, each party has the right to place their views in this regard. When it comes to the continuity or discontinuity of a policy, continuity is good, it is good if it is the continuity of something good, it seems that this is largely the continuity of a job that has been done and has been a relatively good job, and then this job should probably, in our understanding, find confirmation of its quality and the discontinuity is not bad, only that in discontinuity you don't know what you're dealing with most often because it's very difficult for a state lawyer to objectively evaluate, he always, the candidate for a state attorney, who is always coming closer to some structures whose assessment is therefore partial, is not universal and can come to difficulties in discontinuity and therefore the appointment of a state attorney who is known to the public, whose results are more or less assessed by the positive, which in the continuity of the work of the current state's attorneyship and the state's attorney is actually a good thing is actually not a good thing, but we don't know that we can't be able to be able to do so well in a good thing in the way, but we can't be able to be able to be able to do something in time. After 12 years and there are colleagues from the HDSSB Club probably on the trail of a good solution, there is almost no public function of great interest that should be continued and this is a high function of public interest, we do not have a limit to the mandate of a state attorney but after 12 years and in the best work some mechanisms are created, some relations, some rituals, some relationships and not malignancies that make it difficult to introduce some new models of work, so even by that logic, despite the fact that Mladen Bajić would be a quality state attorney in another term, I think that by the logic of things, the change that then opens up some new relationships, some new people, some new chances, some new ways of working, not only style is certainly a good change. The state's attorney is not independent, namely he's independent in his work but he's not independent of everything that's going on. When we talk about the independence of our judicial bodies including the state's attorney, the only thing we think is independence from politics, and I think that independence is largely ensured in recent years, but our judicial bodies can be dependent on a lot of other things, on their internal relations, interests, groups. The state's attorney's office depends on the courts. It must respect, namely, the state of the courts so far, and which fate will experience their work on these courts in which it must be verified. And courts are also independent institutions that often and rightly can be negative, namely not only affirmative positions because they are independent of politics but the question of whether this independence guarantees full quality. This can and should be discussed and the state's attorney is also very strong at the work of those courts. Is the state's attorney's office in relation to the media image that's being created? It shouldn't be, but often this media image affects the overall climate in power circles, and it seems to me that the state's attorney's office so far has actually listened to the impression that some of the cases that have been of particular interest to the media may, in these circumstances, be influenced by media images on all other actors and then the efficiency of the state's attorney is understandable, but I hope that this situation is from us. We remember those stories about how from the State's Attorney's Office what it's always denied, they actually come up with data that is then directed, and that media image as some sort of side-based support for the success of the work of a state attorney which is also formally unacceptable, but I'm not sure that it was sometimes not present. We had a state attorney who when I was a defence minister, he came to a bar where I was without insurance, he had three bodyguards with him, let's say that his motive was clean, that everything he was doing was right, he was chasing everyone, but all that was right, the system wasn't ready to accept it because he wasn't clean yet, he wasn't capable enough to accept it, and in that sense what the President of the Republic said about corning up prematurely, at that time has logic, but today, not anymore. Today, I believe that the merits of both the Croatian Parliament and the law that it has passed, the overall development of society, the constant wisdom that exists within even, and within the political elite, have come to such conditions of work of the State's attorney's office and then the courts and then other bodies that will make it impossible for such fears to occur. There are also police, despite the existence of the police USKOK, in a very important co-operation relationship, the co-operation with the State's Attorney's Office and the quality of this relationship may depend on the efficiency of the state's attorney. And not to mention all of these relationships that are mirrored to a local level at which the state's attorney actually has very little influence because it is a very distant and very complex process that happens somewhere in a city where there is a special kind of, police relations, state's attorney, courts, media, political powers and the efficiency of a state's attorney can't be, of course in such situations universal, but all of these bodies should be part of a vertical and in that case any creation of separate islands that would be resistant to influence and police verticals and the state's attorney's vertical is something that is absolutely deformation and should be very quickly recognized and removed. Of course, there are supervisory authorities, other audit bodies, side audit authorities such as State Audit, Internal Control, Supervisory Boards who can also in some way contribute to better work of the State's Attorney's Office, but also not if these bodies are not doing their job properly. And I think I've even stalled a little bit in this time, so it's about a positive continuity, it's about an appointment that still opens up space to improve, to improve the functioning mechanisms, that some mechanisms of state's attorney's tactics occasionally conducted by a former state attorney which I don't judge and prioritize negatively, but I warn that it's not ideal, the attorney's office must be blind and stupid. So the new state attorney is able to make a jump, a qualitative leap in his work, but generally the preservation and continuity that rises is certainly good and the club of HNS representatives will support this appointment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73804	Thank you, too. It's the HDZ Club and Honorable Representative Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73805	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen, 14 MPs and MPs are at the end of this debate on the appointment of the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia. There is also a secretary of the plenary session of the Parliament, a stenographer, two at the gallery and a gentleman who is Yeah. [[Adversity President: It's a question of quality, Your Honor.]] I think it's being accessed here now, that it's clearly showing the whole process as if, which is below the level of election of the president of the home council. Underneath the election of the president of the home council. We received the 27th of February from the Government, the President of the Croatian Parliament, a proposal for a decision to appoint the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia with an explanation for the end of the term of office and the Government proposes to appoint Mr. Dinko Cvitan as chief state attorney. And that's all. He writes the above-mentioned proposal for a decision with the appropriate documentation is attached, there is Mr Dinko Cvitan's résumé, nothing more. It is the main state attorney who is head of an institution that is under the Constitution, Article 125. The Constitution as an independent, independent, judicial body which takes action against the perpetrators of criminal offences and other criminal acts shall take care of the interests of the interests of the real interests of the Republic of Croatia and shall take on other legal means to protect the Constitution and the law, namely from one and the guardian and protector of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. Well, isn't it true that the government has deigned to say one single sentence as to why it proposes Mr. Dink Cwitan to be the attorney general? Well, it's not just the reason that the term of office of the state's attorney-general so far stands out. Many have tried to point out here, it was from the SDP club why it was proposed by Dinko Cwitan as the attorney general that it was for two reasons. One is to ensure continuity, and the other is to improve the work of the State's Attorney's Office as a whole. But that's what a representative of the HDZ Club, from the government, said not a single word. At a recent press conference, the Prime Minister said that Prime Minister Mladen Bajic did it a lot of good and something not good and nothing more, but in a written submission to the Croatian Parliament, the Prime Minister has not a single word or explanation, nor an argument as to why he is proposing Mr. Dinko Cvitan. That's what the other representatives, the representatives' clubs said, that's what we said to the Justice Committee, today's chairman of the Justice Committee and we're members of the Justice Committee. Well, the other day, more arguments were given by the Prime Minister to change the government's spokeswoman. The Prime Minister said that the government's spokeswoman is leaving so far, a new spokesman is coming because she has been a spokeswoman so far that it is a work that has come to be saturated. So there are more reasons and reasons why a change in the government's spokeswoman is taking place, and yet there is no question of appointing why a new spokeswoman of the government is coming, and even less why a appointment is proposed. I know the Prime Minister is probably on his way to visit Australia and New Zealand now, but couldn't one of the government... ministers have done all the honors to the deputy minister, but where is the minister, where are the Deputy Prime Ministers? They're gone. It shows how seriously the government has access to this business. Why did the time come during the term of office to stop the term of office of the attorney general? Why hasn't the prime minister given any explanation, why won't he propose former chief state attorney Mladen Bajic again for a new mandate? He did not give any explanation because as much as he would have given the explanation would not have hidden the fundamental fact that he did not propose Mladen Bajic for the extension of the mandate for the sake of a personal cap. That this is the only exclusive decision not by the government but only by the prime minister that he will not propose Mladen Bajic as the new chief state attorney. And then it was really asked for a solution to suggest someone from the system because if the proposed someone was out of the system, and some processes would go wrong, then the prime minister wouldn't want to get rid of it, he didn't want to put himself on the cross to be responsible because he suggested someone outside the system and that he was elected chief state attorney, and some processes capitalists, etc. They ended badly. And that's why Mr. Cwitan's proposal is coming. I support on behalf of the club the choice of Mr. Cvitan as chief state attorney because I think he will not only continue the policy of continuity but also that I am convinced in this debate on the Justice Committee that he will be a person and an official who will successfully carry out all actions that are related to the pursuit of corrupt crimes, organised crime, and I especially believe that he will work committed to the fact that potential perpetrators of the crimes are deprived of the fruits of his crimes. So that they do not retain the property benefit, the property they have acquired criminally because the amendment of the USCOD Act that entered into force on 15 December last year was founded by a special department that will need to keep an eye on the property of potential perpetrators of criminal offences, that property in some way frozen so that it is a deterrent from potential criminals, some kind of, that they do not hope to retain the fruits of their crime. And secondly, I am convinced that the main state attorney, what he said here today, which he presented at the Justice Committee's session, will also be committed in the framework of judicial cooperation with the state's attorneys or public prosecutors of Serbia and other neighbouring states, notably Serbia, that all those perpetrators of the crimes committed in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War during the armed rebellion and occupations to process themselves in Croatia and to get out of hand. Finally, in the context of this international co-operation as it is today, he also pointed out that candidate for chief state attorney Dinko Cvitan, that Serbia does not use to continue its kind of judicial aggression through the war crimes tribunal and the State's War Crimes Attorney's Office, the Serbian War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, indictments, criminal JNA. The charges of criminal JNA which are her organs, military prosecutions, military courts, investigative courts,...92. years have been launched, filed these charges, and these charges and today have been taken over and accepted by Serbian judicial authorities, the war crimes prosecutor's office and international warrants and warrants and act as the mini Hague. And there is Dinko Cvitan we simply believe that this form of cooperation will thus improve, just as I believe it will improve that form of persecution for the crimes of war crimes. We have a war crimes database, but what we pointed out in the debate on the annual report of the state's attorneys for 2012, I expect the main state attorney to give the Croatian general public an accurate overview of all the crimes committed during the armed rebellion, the Homeland War, armed aggression on Croatia, with all the places where war crimes were committed, crimes against the civilian population, international law, war prisoners with the so-called crime scene, who are victims of who and where are the proceedings. Whether it is still in the application phase against unknown perpetrators, whether it is at the stage of the investigation, whether it is at the stage of the indictment or whether it is in some sort of trial phase and how condemned it is. We still don't have that data today. The other day, I think it was published in a daily list of information from the Ministry, spokeswoman of the Ministry of Justice, that by applying three Laws of Forgiveness, about 22,000 people were abolized by the application of the Law of Forgiveness. It was mostly for, it had to be for armed rebellion, but there we are at once on an incredible ground, so we would like to get the exact raster of all these, complete specifications of all victims, crime scenes, perpetrators, commanders known to be. Not to mention that the other day, I read in a daily press that a county court, by law, has freed an extrajudicial council of the county court by applying the Law of Forgiveness from further prosecution of a man who was in '92. Or '93. Convicted to 20 years in prison, which was indisputable from recognition, because I participated in his exchange, according to his confession in court proceedings before the investigating judge admitted that in cold blood he welcomed two Croatian guards in Vukovar and shot them like dogs in front of the guest house.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73806	Bring the end, the time has come.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73807	And he's abolished. So to conclude, thank you very much, Mr. President, to conclude, the HDZ Representatives' Club will vote in favour of the appointment of Dinko Cwitan to the main state attorney of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73808	Thank you very much. We have four replicas. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73809	Dear fellow Seks, I agree with you when you said that this debate, the atmosphere in which it takes place below the level of election of the president of the House Council, with me just to correct you, is 15 MPs and 1 representative here at the Parliament right now, and the President of the Parliament is the same representative. I would say that more dust challenges the appointment when Milan Bandic appoints a head of Zagreb's or Zagreb's fishermen' markets than it is today. That's not good, that's bad. And it's bad because we're discussing a possible state attorney almost in the dark at 8:00 a.m. in the Parliament. That doesn't seem right. You said it was an important function, one of the most important functions in the state, and that we do it in the afternoons in this atmosphere is not like the Parliament, and that's why the Parliament has no reputation. And the state's attorney won't have it if we act like one. You said the Prime Minister explained that he was changing his spokeswoman or spokeswoman because of the saturation of theirs. But that's what we concluded on behalf of our club. The government's president changed Bajic seems to me due to the saturation of Bajic. It could have been very difficult for Mr. Bajic's new mandate since he spoke all about Mr. Bajic's affairs in the past years when he was in opposition. That's what we warned him about here in the Parliament, we quoted it correctly, and I don't think Mr. Prime Minister was wrong this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73810	Replication response, distinguished representative Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73811	What do you mean, colleague Vuksic did not make a mistake this time, that he did not make a mistake in saying that he was satisfied with Mladen Bajic. If that's what you mean then it's probably true. I trust the Prime Minister when he talks about saturation. Maybe he just missed out on adding that he was fed up with a government spokesman, that he was fed up with a top state attorney, and maybe we'll find out soon enough that he's been fed up with someone else. Okay, we can't go that far. It may be that someone else, that another sense of saturation will be created with the Prime Minister because it is likely. You can see that some people change because the Prime Minister has an experience of saturation. It's also a bit of a nutritionist, gastronomic one phenomenon, but it's in exceptional cases and exceptional individuals quite common.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73812	Dear Representative Joseph Kregar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73813	I'll start with Mr. Shakespeare's last line on behalf of the club. So, the HDZ will support Mr. Cvitan's election as chief state attorney where I can think of a sentence all is well that it ends well. Therefore, two things should be pointed out. Mr. Mladen Bajić completes his post with full praise to the public, the media, the representatives. And the other thing is, Mr. Dinko Cvitan will hopefully be elected chief state attorney as a man of many hopes. He leaves and is a competent man, knows a job that he does and clearly has a heart and will to do it well. I would, however, like to point out some more things that, due to the intrinsic intensities of these talks, the predecessors have come to terms, which is the fact that there is a certain dissatisfaction in proposing a candidate who is manifested in an evaluation of procedural failures or shortcomings. That thing or such conclusion can be removed only in one way, which is that the vote shows support to Mr. Dink Cvitan by and those who are here in some way a suspect or at least one shadow of doubt fell to that, whether they really want him for the attorney general. It'll be seen at the vote tomorrow. My conclusion is that they do. After all, Mr. Prime Minister, in his address and in a speech announced by Mr. Cvitan's election, expressed his gratitude and gratitude to Mr. Bajic for his work so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73814	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73815	I agree with my esteemed colleague, Kregar, that the Prime Minister, in his speech the other day, did not just give praise. He said Mladen Bajic did a number of good things, great things but also some and fewer other good things, you forgot about this. But wouldn't it be appropriate that on this paper once when the Prime Minister delivered it to the President of the Croatian Parliament, the government told the meeting and proposed Mr Dinko Cwitan as chief state attorney with an explanation. We believe that the attorney general, Dinko Cvitan, will be a high-quality, successful, capable attorney general who will improve the work. Nothing. That's what Mr. Grbin had to bring out in his debate. That's what you said. I don't understand why? If it's a matter of dignity, the integrity of that function, if that's what it's all about. Imagine being elected here by the President of the Supreme Court, and having the Prime Minister send a memo we propose to the President of the Supreme Court, Peru Pradic, in addition to his résumé. He's got something to scream about.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73816	A fellow Shex, however, should believe in the creativity and wisdom of the Croatian Parliament, imagination even. Okay. Honorable representative Sasa Djujic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73817	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Seks, I listened carefully to your debate, my colleague Vuksic corrected me, is 16 of us in the assembly you forgot to count yourself and the president but that's less important. You said the prime minister gave a bigger explanation for changing the government's spokeswoman than about a proposal to elect a new state's attorney. So I also didn't notice that there was a written explanation for why the government spokeswoman was changing, that is, that argument that he gave to change the government's spokeswoman, as he also gave to the government's meeting for what you said in your own debate and for which there was a change in the state's attorney general. Is that supposed to be written? Maybe, maybe not. But Mr. Cvitan is certainly not an unknown person to you or to us MPs or his work, and the fact that you agree with his choice of what you said at the end of your debate is that you accept an explanation that makes you change because if you didn't accept him then you wouldn't agree with him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73818	Replication response, distinguished representative Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73819	Dear fellow Djujic, I agree with you, but there is no, you see, there is a paper here that has nothing, only that the government is proposing the appointment of a state attorney in the person of Dinko Cvitan. In addition to the relevant documentation. And when you look at what's in addition to the proper documentation, it's a girlculum vitae résumé of Mr. Dinko Cwitan. So there's nothing, there's nothing. He's known to the public but you can't, you know, if someone famous to the public just deliver the name and last name with a résumé and thus mark why the government proposes. He can't because he's famous, because he's known in public and he attaches his resume. He must say why he proposes and has the necessary references and quality to choose, why he proposes it. I think it's clear to everyone today both in this assembly and in the public that it wasn't an appropriate way. To be honest, I support Mr. Dinko Cwitan's choice as the new attorney general, but the way in which the procedure came not in the Parliament, it was all perfect in the Parliament. The chairman of the board and the board, the President of the Parliament, all worked perfectly and in what way. But on the other hand, there was a need to show more dignity and dignity throughout the process concerning the proposal and selection of the state's attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73820	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivan Šimunović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73821	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of Mr. Cvitan's résumés who we've come to appreciate is that Mr. Cvitan meets all the conditions to become the attorney general. There's no reason to doubt that it's a good and valuable candidate and a man. But there's one question that bothers me. What if we're not happy with the work of our former state's chief attorney? What kind of change do we expect from his deputy this morning? It wouldn't be good if it was just a cosmetic change. I hope in this case it won't be like that. Well, here's what I'll do tomorrow. I'll also support Mr. Cwitan for the Attorney General. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73822	There's no replica room? We're going to an individual debate of deputies for 10 minutes. Wesna Fabiančić-Križanić, a respected representative, is on the way. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73823	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I'm going to talk about is a proposal for a decision on the election of Attorney General Dink Cwitan. So I won't talk about gastronomy or Dinko Bajic or whether it takes a lot of explanation for Dinko Bajic's person. We're here, if there's 15 or 16 of us I'd like to... Yeah, yeah, that's what I said on purpose. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I would, I wouldn't look back on that either, and I would agree, as the President of the Parliament has said, that it is a matter of quality. But I would also remind you colleagues and colleagues that every year we followed Dink Cwitan's work. Every year through the State's Attorney's Office report. One good part of every year's report is dedicated to the work of USKOK. And we're witnessing through these reports a very successful work of USKOK, which Dinko Cvitan is the headmaster. I would remind you that in the previous 2012 State Attorney's Office's 2012 report, the success of USKOK's work, which is measured by the percentage of judgments, was 94% high. Today we have heard that in the past year this success of 94% of the convictions, that this success has increased to 98%. We in some dare to say to unserious debates that what it is to thank someone for being successful, that it is a success if there are 94 or 98% of the convictions because we are not in North Korea. It was a very inconclusive finding because if we appreciate the success of the BOOK or the State's Attorney's Office with such a high percentage then it just shows how serious it is to do this USKOK's work and how serious it realizes whether or not to charge someone with charges lightly not to be sure that you have all the necessary evidence and established facts because once we have witnessed it in a few cases, when you stick a label to someone without a charge and let alone with a indictment can have no idea how many acquittals, it will have little effect on the public. So, while Dinko Cvitan's work as Director of USKOK was being followed through reports on the work of the State's Attorney's Office on what is extremely important, some colleagues who are present today and now know in this debate and I am saying this because of colleagues who are not members of the Justice Committee, the Justice Committee has been interviewing Dinko Cvitan for two hours. It is the council that elects the chief state attorney and how serious and responsible it is to be shown by members of the board, among other things, and by members of the Committee on Justice, who have been asking questions for a full two hours. What has impressed me personally and as a member of the Committee on Justice and as a parliamentary representative is that someone like Dinko Cvitan for so many years has been the director of USKOK and so much in answering questions to show enthusiasm and desire to further advance the war of the state's attorneyship as a whole just shows that he is an extremely good candidate for this responsible function. In his opening presentation and presentation to us members of the Committee on Justice, he highlighted exactly those topics that were very often heard either in the debate on the report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office even today. So, what he thinks is particularly necessary to further improve, it is certainly further processing of corruption and, of course, with a special emphasis on local level and we are all witnessing that we need to strengthen the supervision of the work of county and municipal state attorneys not in a way that put everyone under the same common denominator not to work well but simply to improve their work by quality supervision. What he particularly stressed is the increase of efficiency in the process of privatization along all the fences due to the time-out and the increasing evidence in the detour, in this part of committing a crime. He paid particular attention to the confiscation of property due to acquired property with the committing of crime as well as war crimes. His statement and I believe has also been greatly affected by his answers to the fact that after two full hours, the Justice Committee unanimously supports the government's proposal to elect Dinko Cwitana Parliament as chief state attorney. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73824	Thank you, too. Before I announce the replica, since the question is raised about the time of the debate on the election of the state's attorney-general, I would like to say for the record and the Croatian public that 8 clubs participated in the debate and there were 26 replicas and 21 replies to the replica. In addition, four MPs were reported in an individual debate, which will take more than 4.5 hours to complete. The quality of these discussions is not to assess even the President of the Parliament, not even a single representative in the Croatian Parliament, although it is right because it is an important interaction in the debate in the Croatian Parliament, but the most important thing is for the citizens to hear it. Now we have a replica of the respected representative Vladimir Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73825	Thank you, Mr. President. I agree with you colleagues that either a stranger or someone else, with another characteristic of the villains, states that this high percentage of the convictions is 94% of the most corrupt crime that this gives them the impression that it's a state's attorney's office in North Korea, in... It is obvious that from 94 where the defendants are convicted, therefore it is not about criminal acts, because before the charges in the vast number of criminal charges, which is visible from these statistics, whether a large number of criminal charges have been rejected because after criminal processing a further percentage still, so it is only those accused of being finally, that it would be a complaint, so don't judge the state's attorney, judge the court, then this complaint is addressed to the wrong address, then it should be addressed to the court, that it is obedient to 94% of all charges. There is one other thing, where at this debate today at the Justice Committee, Cvitan said, demonstrated one position, one view that it is not politics and that it will not be affected by politics. We have that direction, and I believe, and his choice will remove both those suspicions and doubts that the code, in earlier periods, had any selective approach to criminal persecution.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73826	Thank you very much. There's no answer. You agree, that's good. Dear Representative Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73827	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's what I'm going to do. It's already said a lot tonight, but I need to say a few words. I belong to those who think that this decision, or proposal to replace the head of the State's Attorney's Office, is a good decision of this government. I also believe that Mr. Bajic has done a lot in these 12 years, he has done good things. Could he have done better? Probably could, anyone who worked could, could always do much better. But I think that after 12 years, it's really time for a change, and I think it's really important after all this time because even the most persistent and qualitative always comes down to motivation, and I'd say free, even fatigue. So in such important functions and such places as the attorney general should really after a while change people, change them at the top because, with their work, they wanted, they didn't want to come into contact with some groups in society, and then some individuals, and then there might be a question sometimes the credibility of their work even though it doesn't have to be, so it doesn't have to mean that it really affects their work, but we're all human beings of blood and meat, so there are good changes, in any case after a certain period of years. The proposal to replace Mr. Bajic with Mr. Cvitan, I think he's good. The resume of Mr. Cvitan and his work so far at the head of the BUSKOK is certainly a guarantee that it is a person who, we believe, will do this job well together. It is a decision of continuity, and as many of us have already said here, but I would say a sort of refreshment because Mr. Cvitan certainly has some motivation for career progress and further work, so I think it's a refreshment in the State's Attorney's Office that should only improve his work. I am particularly pleased that Mr Cvitan was present on the board today, when he announced special attention against the fight against corruption, against corruption at local level, and that is certainly a major problem. The problem is what some have been saying, colleagues before me, and the inequality of the work of municipal and county state attorneys. The problem and a large series of unargumented anonymous reports that go against local leaders, and then the State's Attorney's Office and USKOK sometimes even lose a lot of time, a lot of time, resources and finances in investigating some, let's say unfounded accusations. I believe there is very few mayors, mayors or mayors in Croatia against whom there is at least one anonymous application. And then it would be good to do an investigation, so here we are today, over the last few days we've been looking at bombing headlines in the media, BUSCOCK is investigating this, and there's no color of the party, but I think there's already a perception of the public guilt, in itself, the initiation of an investigation against someone, but people find that person guilty, and then if it turns out over time that the charges were unfounded, then it's hard to wash away from it. Or, I don't know, maybe we should find some model that when after some time it is determined that some indictment or some investigation was unwarranted and unargumented, somehow we should report to the public that the indictment, that the investigation was carried out, that the indictment was dropped because we have such examples in history that some leaders were being investigated and would eventually be dismissed, but they would still be identified as guilty in their midst. Also, the judiciary, the fact is that it is independent, but that it is a particular problem in the judiciary because sometimes the USKOK conducts an investigation, the State's Attorney's office proposes to press charges, and then until the court goes through a few years because nothing is simply happening in this matter. Then it would be, we have a situation to say against some of the leaders before the elections, practically local investigation has begun for the 6, 7, 8-year-old indictments. All in all, I think Mr. Cvitan's choice is good, and I believe that with his announcements he announced today on the board will certainly raise the quality of work and the State's Attorney's office, but also all of these things I mentioned at local level. And it is very important that such decisions as the appointment of a chief state attorney exist in the consensus of all political options. I hope that tomorrow, and also in the election and voting in confidence of Mr Cvitan, there will be a consensus as it existed today and on the board, and I believe that he will be unanimously elected, at least I hope because it certainly gives more responsibility to his future work, but the guarantee that he has the support of all of us political factors, let's say so. And I need another brief observation, which is what I forgot to tell my colleague Shakespeare in the replica. He said the prime minister is not here today to defend this proposal because he is on a very important trip to Australia in New Zealand. The prime minister is on a very important path today, but in Brussels at a Council of Ministers meeting where the topic is the security situation in Ukraine, so here's the quick correction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73828	Thank you, too. We have two replicas, respected representative Branko Vuksic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73829	Dear counterpart Djujic, I believe that when there is a vote, we do not know, we do not determine when there is a vote, a unanimous choice because no club I have heard has opposed the proposal. You said, in fact I'm replicating it, I heard your statement that certain problems in the judiciary exist. These are huge problems, the judiciary is the weakest point, far weaker than the government and everything else in Croatia, in the entire state apparatus, or state system. An independent judiciary. It's an alarming problem that the Parliament should be discussing, not to repeat everything I've said many times before how many trials are going on, how ineffective the judiciary is, how decisions are made, how judges are, etc. each other's chances. You said the same thing that you forgot to mention what Mr. Seks is, I hope it won't be after 4 years 5 when we discuss it or in a year that it really is Dinko Bajic, I believe it will be Dinko Cvitan that it won't be Bajic after Bajic. That lapus didn't happen by accident.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73830	Replicate reply, respected representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73831	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Vuksic, I agree with you in this everything you have said. The judiciary is definitely a big problem for our society and I can even say brakes in some social processes. And the only thing that worries me also sometimes is that when in this House or when politics talks about these problems, often some of them who fall under the obvious state of justice say that it's the political pressure on independent justice. And I think that this is exactly what you said that we should talk as much about this problem as possible and achieve a consensus of all policy options to realize that this is a real problem and to talk about it because that is the only way we can solve it together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73832	Honorable representative Vladimir Seks, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73833	Thank you very much. I know that the prime minister is in Brussels today, I said he's on his way to Australia, but I didn't rule out that he's in Brussels. I am in a blaago, very mildly ironic way... that the Prime Minister is not in front of the Parliament and someone else from the deputy or from the ministers... I ironed it with one very mild irony... I say, very mildly that it is obviously an unusually important state visit to Australia and New Zealand. Read one mild reproof.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73834	Replicate reply, respected representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73835	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not going to talk about Australia and New Zealand right now and I'm not going into any of these discussions at all. And the fact that there are no prime ministers here today and there are no ministers I don't think has diminished the quality of our debate on this problem, nor do I think it has cut us off in any knowledge or information that we might be able to discuss this proposal in a good way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73836	Dear fellow MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73837	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I think that this government's proposal to appoint Dinko Cwitan as chief state attorney is one decision, or that the government's proposal is so good in itself that by law the government could name anyone who is not from the State's Attorney's Office and fulfils the law of certain conditions. That's why the government is right. However, neither the government of Ivica Racan nor the government headed by Milanovic was involved in such matters because in 2000 it was the custom for people who had nothing to do with the State's Attorney's Office to come to the head and to the state's attorney's office. On the one hand, it is primarily an admission to the profession that only within a particular profession can come out, can the best of the staff emerge. In addition, it is on the trail of what Mr. Cwitan said to the MPs today. That it's basically his candidacy, that he understands it, and he knows why he's saying it, that he was the first associate of Chief State Attorney Mladen Bajic. And only ignorant people and just bad people, and even if it's a combination of one and the other, then it's quite destructive, it can't remember the period of beginning of serious work of the State's Attorney's Office and the structure of the USKOK, which is from financial problems, from space problems, from personnel problems. Almost all the personnel he appointed came precisely for this teamwork as they circled and filled in. And that work is the result of really teamwork. That's what Mr. Dinko Cvitan said openly. We have also spoken in this way at times when Bajic's report was unanimously accepted. Then some other winds blew and something different was said. No criticism justified which at any time was possible to be given according to work in relation to the work of the State's Attorney's Office but all what was achieved and what was once boasted was denied. So here I am, using this debate of mys, I can say that they do not need judicial officials, the highest judicial officials much to be amazed especially by praise, perhaps more at criticism, and less at the praise of politicians, are politicians when praiseing others essentially praise themselves. And that's why this job is very difficult. He's not about being popular. His duty is no longer to be popular and to uphold the Constitution and the law. And when you thus represent the tireless truth, then you are all on the road, and no one likes you. It happened well to the predecessor Bajic and that's what Cvitan admits. He admits that his mandate doesn't begin anywhere. And we politicians often argue so that the world starts with us. This is incorrect to all those who have paved the way, who have finally given us, I speak in the broadest sense of the word, of all officials who have the opportunity and come to the lead as Dinko Cvitan, at the head of the State's Attorney's Office. His work and doubts about whether he will be outside of politics, we suspect, and others from Europe who are very critical of us, and sometimes we don't like it, and then we often use it politically here against the other side, and I think we should see it when the criticisms are justified, and when the praises are taken as a common recognition, I also see it as a common recognition of the state as a whole, and in particular to the State Attorney's Office and, specifically, to Denko Cvitan, who is headed, when the European Commission literally said in her assessment that BIAKOK praises, that BIAKOK is able to conduct investigations without political influence and towards persons of any kind and how these persons are connected. It's often said here, and these are expectations, and it doesn't need to be criticized either by the media or by the general public, but when it comes to judicial officials, then there's nothing magazine about it. There's no Elliot Ness, there's no sound that's more romantic from the history of characters who've got some sort of supernatural power. And since Elliot Ness is often mentioned here in his discussions, then he should not be distracted by the mind that Elliot Ness ended up, drinking himself, having fun in a nearby pub or bar, but in America as they have that name, talking, romanticizing their events and eventually failed, in charge, he had to eat so that he sold hamburgers. So there's nothing on the magazine. The truth that is proven and determined before the court, so it is most seen by those reporters, those media, those journalists who follow, who often come to us on television in some sequences. How many days, how many months that something that's interesting to the public can be pictured. How hard it is to work, how many nights and the team they have gathered, and what the media is here, I find it very, very likable, the good part is women, they call Bajic's angels, they may now be called Cvitan's angels, who work hard from morning till midnight. No one sees it, we see it eventually if we see them in some role if they represent the indictment before the court. So the truth goes last, in the dwarves, without any lights, cameras, popularity, and mine is kind of my wish because we've seen how it's often ended, it's had echoes and in our debates, how we've apologized to it ourselves, and not seeing exactly what we can do as a legislative body to make this work advance. I think we've done a lot of things in amending the Criminal Procedure Act, giving the state's attorney's office such opportunities and such mechanisms to respond to the most serious crimes, especially organised crime. The organized crime that flourished, which now hatches in front of our courtrooms, could happen and could only happen in an unorganized society. What remains a great task, Dinko Cvitan also spoke about, and this is a special attention in the work of the county's state's attorneys. It is something that everyone now criticises, which has now been seen that the State's Attorney's Office, or people in the State's Attorney's Office, can work from morning till dawn but cannot compensate for all this work because, ultimately, all these acts or actions happen in a particular area for which the county or municipal state's attorney is designated. It's also a mockery of success here, so when you get criticized, whatever you do is no good. If there were a large number of rejections or reluctances, people would rightly say here, so wait, why do they go to charges, innocent people being accused. If the condemnation procedure is very large in relation to the charges, then it is said that it is North Korea. Is it not the only conclusion that it is precisely against the most serious crimes or the most serious criminals that has been handled very carefully, very detailedly, so the more difficult the work has been done there and more evidence is being collected as the law does, in the end, and not only requires, the theory of criminal law and procedure. So the harder the work, the harder the evidence must be. So such careful treatment is certainly also appropriate treatment, of course not too careful because the State's Attorney's Office does not determine guilt, which I did a little earlier in the replica and said, so we have to leave it out, and whenever there is a biggest, well-founded doubt, when it seems that the person is guilty, it is left to the court and this work of the State's Attorney's Office and the court must be separated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73838	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Vladimir Seks, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73839	Dear colleagues, Ingrid Anticevic, you have well noticed that it is a good thing that the chief state attorney comes from the ranks of the organization, from the state's attorney's office. In doing so, you said that many did not come from that organization. Now the truth, for the sake of complete truth, has to be said, for 50 years now, I've been following the state's attorney and state prosecutor's organisation, from around the 1970s to the '90s, the public prosecutors of the Republic of Croatia were in turn politically elected people who did not come from judicial structures but came as senior political officials. Since '90. There were several public prosecutors of Croatia who came from a public prosecutor's or a state-run law firm. One was Krunoslav Olujic, who from the post of deputy district attorney in Osijek, came to the post of public prosecutor of Croatia. The second is Marijan Hranjski, who, as deputy member of the Republic Public Prosecutor, came to the post of Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Croatia. Berislav Zivkovic was a lawyer. Radan Ortinski came from an investigative court. Well, that's it. And finally my teeny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny-tiny. Until '69. the year of the deputy district attorney in Vinkovci and in '71. By the beginning of the famous session in Karadjordjev 70 and whether that is one cold day of the deputy district attorney in Osijek. And finally April 10, '92. until 10 August 1990, the same year the Public Prosecutor of Croatia. So, there was a bunch of people coming from a public prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73840	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73841	So you're telling your colleague that for many years you've been following the work of the State's Attorney's office, we've been following in different ways. And we better follow them than they follow us. Right? If it wasn't for that kind of time, it was a little joke. But I haven't talked about these times, and I'm not going to diminish the importance of any of those people you've listed, and even you, even though I'm telling you the truth and I don't remember. They weren't so bright at the time of the stage, nor was it thought, yet this work at that time, if we'll remember these times, was not so open to the public. On the one hand, it was good, and on the other hand it wasn't good. On the one hand, it's a great good and for the State's Attorney's Office that works at the present time, it's certainly a relief, but on the other hand, and a burden. Although I think you'll agree as much as it is and then hard times, as many things are now cleared or cleared up and the truth has gone and that nothing is going to stop it, that there's actually no easy mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73842	A pandemic statement and it didn't. Okay. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73843	Dear counterparts Anticevic-Marinovic, you said in your statement that the government could name anyone. ... Yeah, that fills. [[Intruder Antičević-Marinović, not understood.]] But the government was not chosen to do anything and to choose anyone. The government did well this time, which I have already said several times. But I didn't fully understand you, about the evils, the ignorants, because there's somewhere we could put the prime minister in that frame. Because what the Prime Minister said to the State's Attorney's Office, until two years and two, three months ago, I will no longer quote. I hope what I agree with you that he will and we will grow up with him. You said that the European Commission commended Uskok and you heard it very well, we all heard it. But that's very good to hear. But it is a shame that you do not hear what the European Commission is saying about other things in Croatia. It is never quoted here in the Assembly by the majority of the Parliament. That's why I don't want this to turn out, this debate of ours into one big panegirick. We gave Mr. Cwitan one of what to give. You don't always have to sign the binco note. I mean, we should welcome him with dignity, wish him well, and we can't say in advance that he'll be a great, wonderful, wonderful state attorney. Let's wait for the results, we'll see after a year when his first report is what he's going to do in 2014. And I hope everything that we wish for will come true.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73844	Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73845	I agree with you, but if you've followed a little more closely, I haven't said one word to you tomorrow and you don't know what you're going to do tomorrow or any of us. I was talking about his work so far. To be more clear, if you followed me and what I said and what my colleague Shakespeare was replicating, you yourself said it was a good decision and I'm glad you're okay with it. I just wanted to point out how the government could propose to anyone who met those conditions, but therefore did not go on such an adventure. I'm not saying that even a person like that couldn't possibly do their job well enough, but she just decided for the person coming from that team, who's coming, that it's a confession to what it is eventually when the prime minister at the government explained that proposal, that's what he said. And that everything that was good for that was good enough to improve, which was bad to improve. But here in such criticism, there is no need to run away from it when Prime Minister Milanovic and criticised the work of the State's Attorney and Head of State. But please, let's remember this and the periods and relations between the State's Attorney's office and the police. How much State's Attorney's Office can be able to do if the police don't cooperate? Because objects that we often say stand in a drawer, they can't even fit in a drawer anymore. Often some objects stand believe or not in an entire room.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73846	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Joseph Kregar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73847	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues who speak last must speak at peace, for the replicas of the latter are not welcome. So I'm going to come from a very clear truth, that this proposal is one of the best politically measured decisions of our government. That's why you need to understand that the criticisms are a little... A little late. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't want to brag about that decision, but it's a good decision, we agreed on that. I point out this because it is a little unfair to assess both the ministries and their representatives and those who have influenced this final choice. That's why I think we should stress it and admit it's a wise, measured, proportionate decision. I'm reporting for two other things, though. One thing is that in these moments there is a strong expression of the fact that institutions connect not only symbolically, with the name of their leader. It's not Mladen Bajic State's Attorney's Office. Neither will Dinko Cvitan be the State's Attorney's Office. And with their personal qualities, we must not tie the total activity of 1716 people working in that system. Not only that, the main issue that is now being raised is the fact that there are problems with determining the ability and capacity of the institution, these bodies. Not only do I think in the number of people, but it is not always possible to make up for the fact that many social injustices have fallen on the State's attorney's office. What the State's Attorney's Office can do is process part of the whole problem. Hopefully the punishments will scare all those who are challenging. But it won't fix or change the system itself in which in one or another part of our failures we discover that it's not about the case, not about the individual sin, but about the systemic problem. When Mr. Cvitan talks about local sheriffs, no offense, he thinks we actually have a problem with democracy and responsibility at local level. That's the problem. Not only have we succeeded, but most of us have failed to catch and bring to court. The last thing I'm going to say is the fact that this debate shows great recognition of the work of the State's Attorney's Office and the SCIK. It's a confession that's our subjective confession. There were elements, and the lady before me pointed out and Peja Grbin pointed to this, a very positive assessment of a European report, lastly. But it's not just that. USKOK and the State's Attorney's Office have been markedly positive by neutral international bodies before. I draw attention to Progress reports, those Progress Reports, which led to the fact that the previous government had indeed had this government too that it had a way to justify progress on human rights and curb corruption. And that's what the D.A.'s office is very much responsible for. However, less is known, and these are very important things, that USCOD has been declared in the OECD study in the great competition of Estonia, Latvia, Hong Kong, as the best independent anti-corruption body. Not just that, research on... which compared 16 such institutions in transition countries absolutely as a role model pointed out to BIAK. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, I think that these confessions, coming too late, could have come when we discussed the reports, are actually a great incentive and a real encouragement to those whom we will be able to give political support by voting tomorrow. Everything else that happened, this one or that wrong move or the lack, will actually be compensated, corrected. And the state's attorney will take on a task that is difficult to deal with because of the great expectations that citizens have in it, which is to fix one system. One man can hardly fix the system, but let's give him support.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73848	Thank you very much. Final word on behalf of the proposing respected Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73849	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here is the final conclusion that the debate showed that the government's proposal was acceptable and established and even in this form in which it was drawn up. It is not drawn up in a missing form, the form corresponds to the relevant provisions of the Constitution and the Law on the State's Attorney's Office and, as I said, it was sufficient that such a quality debate was carried out on the basis of it. With regard to the observation that the transfer is due to a personal stroke, I will only repeat what has already been said, it is that the period at which the previous state attorney was elected in his term of office will expire, or expire in April. A new candidate is proposed during the term of office. And that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73850	Thank you, too. Yet you deserve one replica, respected representative Vladimir Seks. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73851	Unfortunately, respected deputies, it is not a matter of strict compliance with the Law on the State's Attorney's Office and the Constitution and with other regulations of the Government's proposal being made with regard to the election of the State's Attorney General. It's a form without content. It's calling for mere facts of formal nature. The prime state attorney is now running out of mandate, the government is proposing another for the post and attaching a résumé. There's no explanation, that's not an explanation. A résumé, a delivery of a résumé and a proposal to appoint a top state attorney is not an explanation. That's what it was supposed to be. This also requires the dignity of the Croatian Parliament and the dignity of the government and dignity and dignity of the role of the attorney general. It's a mistake that's been made, and it wouldn't be a good thing if you'd accepted that in those steps, you'd have stepped on a dance party foot with both legs.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73852	Replica reply, Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73853	I'll answer with only three things if you allow me, pure form. No explanation for the proposal has been proposed. Another thing, so far it's been done. It's a common practice. Third thing, the purpose is fulfilled. I think it's the content of this debate and it showed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-03-06-0.u73854	Thank you very much. So we exhausted the lists to discuss, report replicas and reply to the replica. I'm closing the debate. We'll probably vote on the motion for a decision tomorrow. We'll stop working now. I schedule the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. and on the agenda is a proposal to supplement the agenda of the 12th session of the Croatian Parliament and vote on the proposals of the acts, i.e. the final proposals of the acts that we have done this week. Thank you very much! I'll see you tomorrow at 9.30. Seven aborted in 20.53 hours. Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the Chief State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia. The debate on the proposal is over. The amendment to the proposal for a decision was submitted by the Committee on Justice. Please, you don't have to. I am voting on the proposed amendment of the Justice Committee. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? What's the score? I find that the proposed amendment has been accepted unanimously by 106 votes in favour. This has become an integral part of the proposal for a decision. I am voting on the proposed appointment decision. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? What's the score? I note that the proposed decision was taken unanimously by 106 votes in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the proposed amendment of the committee responsible. Congratulations on your choice. It's actually a choice of new state attorney. I wish him successful work in the interests of the rule of law and the rule of law, all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We'll swear later if anyone asks. We'll figure it out. We'll call you a colleague. This concludes today's session of the Parliament. I announce Wednesday the beginning, i.e. the continuation of the plenary session, the 12th session of the Croatian Parliament with the already marked items of the agenda. This is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions with the Final Proposal for a Law, and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Games on Happiness, the Proposal for a Law on the Shorty of Salary and Proposal, nothing more, three. And then at two o'clock or three o'clock we'll publish on the web pages whether the budget is Thursday or second Wednesday if we want to. Here, thank you.
