ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u89353	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We're going back to work. A esteemed colleague, Jadranka Kosor, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u89354	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Please, at the beginning of today's short break before the beginning of the session, in order to consider the possibility of agreeing on the position of all clubs in the Croatian Parliament, to meet the debate in the European Parliament on the case of Seselj, the fact that the court of The Hague, established by the United Nations, that Croatia is an EU member, that it will be discussed in the European Parliament, that European representatives have a need to say something about it. I believe that the Croatian Parliament also declares that, I repeat, in accordance with the fact that the UN tribunal was founded on the initiative of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u89355	Okay, I got it. I got it. I got it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u89356	Please, as we could possibly make a decision on a joint document of the Croatian Parliament that would not be contrary to the declaration we made a few years ago and that bilateral issues would not pose an obstacle to neighbours. However, this is about things that concern us as Croatian EU member states.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u89357	I understand the reason. Here's Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u89358	For the same reason, the club is looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u89359	Here's Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u89360	I can't make the microphone don't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u89361	I'm gonna get you out of here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u89362	Thanks a lot, buddy. For the same reasons and the same reason I'm looking for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u89363	For the same reason, although we had a week ago a press conference but apparently no one has had enough opt-out to react since.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u89364	Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u89365	We're joining these reasons, and we're also looking for a break on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u89366	And the SDP club is looking for a break on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u89367	I'm good at setting a break until 45, by 9:45, and then we're back to work. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] We will not be able to show time on the screen, the technique must look at what happens to the server. The clerk will be here for five minutes, please trust. The first came to the word of the esteemed representative of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u89369	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, I therefore propose to the Croatian Assembly as I announced the other day at the conferences on... that parliament adopt a harmonised position which we will translate into a document that could... or resolution. Of course, on the trail of facts, I repeat that the Republic of Croatia is a member of the UN, the UN is founded by The Hague tribunal, Croatia is a member of the EU which is founded, so the EU on the principles of peace, stability. These are the foundations, bearing EU pillars, whose member is Croatia. Steps by Vojislav Seselj in the neighbouring country undermine these foundations, in a neighbouring country that is on a European path, which wants to open and close all chapters and chapter 23 concerning justice. I believe that as a member of the EU, we should have reacted at least to the chief prosecutor, Mr Brammertz, who, as you know, did not complain about the court's decision to release a different criminal, Vojislav Seselj, even though he does not have a verdict in HAAG, I think I can say it sovereignly for this speaker because all the facts of aggression in Croatia, BiH, speak of it. So we didn't complain about that decision, or Mr. Chief Prosecutor didn't complain. Seselj arrived in Serbia and continues to ramp up the big Serbian idea in a frenzy there. The idea of Milosevic leaving death, arson, ruins, missing and many, many people, hundreds and hundreds of thousands of people in these areas forever turned black. Seselj continues to Taliban, and what does the Serbian government do? Shut up and smile helplessly. There are no reactions from that country, from that country that wants to become an equal EU member tomorrow. Of course, it raises many technical questions, whether they have been granted permission to do so, how it is possible that the ideas of hatred and that on the day we remember the sadness and anniversary of Vukovar's death, the man dares again from the neighbouring state peacefully and without reaction from the Serbian government or the Serbian president again to say that Vukovar is the Serbian city and that he will, of course, return it to Serbia's mother. Why are the heads of the neighbouring state silent? Well, it's probably one reason to be afraid, but it's certainly not to be distracted with the mind and the fact that they're his political children. And that should be very clear and precise here once again. The fact that Vojislav Seselj has not been convicted after 12 years of staying in HAAG is not our problem, but on the other hand, because we are a member of the UN and because, in order to close Chapter 23 last cross road, we assure both the chief prosecutor and the EU and many EU members that we are not hiding anything. Remember the artillery logs, remember the criteria, until the last second and until the last day. That is why we have an obligation as a member of the EU today to warn that the Republic of Serbia must have at least the same criteria as the Republic of Serbia had today, stricter and more stringently. Why do I say that? Because from Belgrade, tanks were moving on Vukovar, which were sent by many, throwing flowers at tanks that were moving to destroy Croatia's Vukovar. If the international community had advocated, if it had understood the Taliban of Seselj and comrades at a time when it should have been understood, Ovcar, Srebrenica, Škabrnja and so many other Ovčara, Srebrenica and Skabrnje would not have happened. Therefore, Croatia has a lot of moral and any other right, as a member of the institutions, as a member of the EU to seek both a finger and a HAAG, to seek the immediate return of Seselj to HAAG, Seselj to court. Serbian authorities' work We are not even concerned anymore, but of course during the negotiations, here I am finishing the full and true truth about the missing because the key to resolving this truth in Belgrade is in the archives of the Yugoslav Army. [[Intruder Stazic: 5 minutes are up.]] Therefore, I propose colleagues and colleagues, a joint text to be discussed by the European Parliament in the meeting because it is illogical for the European Parliament to discuss this without the Croatian Parliament having a statement and a stop and, of course, to support all the political forces in Croatia that can today, especially those that are in power towards The Hague and the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u89370	Thank you. On behalf of the Representatives' Club, respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u89371	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I am going to pick up where my colleague Kosor left off. Certainly, if Ovcara and Srebrenica had not taken place if the international community had responded, there would have been no war, there would have been no massacre, there would have been no such slaughter if the international community had not committed one crime against Croatia and BiH, and that is the arms embargo, but this is not the topic. The story is actually about the foreign policy of the Republic of Croatia, this topic is a story about the foreign policy of Croatia that does not exist. Croatia is an American-Berlin-Bressels poodle in foreign policy. We follow what they say in Brussels, Berlin, Washington. Well, since they didn't say anything to Seselj, that's how our foreign policy fell asleep. It was only when the public reacted that they called from the top of the state. They answered on Facebook, they answered in letters, they came forward in an unfortunate statement. I am sorry at all about the execution of the human nature of Vojislav Seselj we are discussing in the Croatian Parliament, but we must discuss in the Croatian Parliament. It would be advised that the Croatian government led Zoran Milanovic and the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs to send a declaration to the Parliament and to discuss this as soon as it started to work in Serbia. Prior to her colleague Kosor talked about what was going on, it was quite certain that Tadic and Vukic, who are full of Seselj, if Seselj were at large he would have been and the president of parliament would have been a troika that would have attacked further in Croatia. And they're still keeping their mouths shut? Well, because they agree with that policy, but they're not allowed to speak for the international community. They still consider the border to be the big Serbian border they trumpeted in the '90s, '91s in their principle, and for which it was an aggression against the Republic of Serbia. The Hague tribunal is a special story. Haag shouldn't have done that. Criminals like Seselj are not released. There are prison hospitals, and Seselj was supposed to be detained. They knew well, they knew what Seselj was doing in custody in The Hague, so they were going to work in Serbia and released him without any complaints from the prosecution. So it's with the approval of the international community with the approval of the prosecution. This is proof that the government has no responsibility for the victims and that it has no responsibility for the state, has no responsibility for state policy because it allows someone to speak about Vukovar as a Serbian city and will remain an eternal Serbian city and will eventually be part of the Republic of Serbia, it is an open attack against the Republic of Serbia, and that, therefore, official Serbia is even giving us a pack of how we dare talk about Seselj. It is absolutely certain that today we will get pucks because we dared in the Croatian Parliament to protect the dignity of the Republic of Croatia, a height that has not been protected by the state summit and which has not responded in time. These soft interventions that came from the top are the order because the public rebelled. Imagine on the Day of Victims of Vukovar when Seselj speaks this terrible criminal language about the home that Vukovar belongs to Serbia and that we shut up, not us, that the Croatian state's top will shut that up. This should have reacted vigorously to show that Croatia is an independent, sovereign state, but Mr. Zoran Milanovic seems not interested either. Well, it's really sad that we here in such a small number are discussing it, but I agree with my colleague Kosor we need to agree on a declaration together and we need to protest harshly towards Serbia because what is happening is out of our minds and we must not be so kind as long as we hear her coming into the EU as long as we hear those voices and so long as Vucic and the other brothers who think the same way Seselj tells Croatia and don't fence it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u89372	Thank you. It is up to the HDSSB club and respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u89373	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Of course I support Mrs Kosor's initiative and all of us together to bring a particular document to the Hague Court of Justice of the European Parliament and the Republic of Serbia. But we are surprised at the fact that the frustrated, complicated, and sick, apparently, Seselj performs this way. He's really consistent in his '90s and before '90s. I wonder why we are surprised when we have statements by Nikolic about the Bunjevci who are not Croats, when we have statements from journalists in Serbia that he made the same Nikolic massacre in Antino before, 40 victims of Croatian nationality or non-Serbian nationality, when we have a statement by Nikolic that Vukovar is Serbian, like Seselja, so no one reacts or at least those reactions are very, very young, on the drop. How do we respect our victims? We were in Vukovar on November 18th, we had a memory column, it doesn't matter, a column as a column. But do we also wonder what the Croatian MUP is doing when there is news that the same day in a village near Vukovar was held a ceremony of the liberation of Vukovar from Ustasha. Or when children at school wear T-shirts in Croatia with a Seselj character on their chests or when a bus, one bus people, 50-60 goes to Belgrade to meet Seselj from Croatia to go to Seselj's rally on Saturday, from Croatia they go to Serbia so nobody stops them and nobody asks where they're going. We're asking ourselves what we're doing here in Croatia? A military court in Belgrade has imprisoned Mr. Maric. The military court has all the archives on to tell Seselj's works or in the weeks in both Croatia and BiH. So what's a military court doing in Belgrade that has imprisoned our defender Veljko Maric? We don't care what Seselj is doing in Serbia in connection with King Alexander's inner Serbian issues, and I don't know who he is either worshiping with charm or not honoring, and they throw soap at him in the New Fruit and Yoguut as he says, as if he's dirty, as if he's smoking, but that's their thing. But his statements regarding Croatia, in connection with Croatian sovereignty, should produce fierce reactions from the official Croatian government, the president and all others, as well as from the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia. Drinking to the victims, we were also in Vukovar, we were also in Borovo village where 300 m from the monuments of our massacred defenders over whom execution was carried out there is a monument to the executioner Vukasin Šoškocanin and the Croatian state is silent, the Croatian police are silent as if there is no sovereignty over that place at all. Of course, a phenomenon such as Seselj, a complicated and frustrated character, causes these people over whom there is no control of the reaction that I was talking about the beginning of this presentation. Skabrna, Vukovar, Voćin, Celije, Dalj, Sotin, Lovas, Antin, Zadar, Slavonski Brod and a series of other cities and villages in the Republic of Croatia deserve neither the government nor the prime minister nor the foreign minister, so that Serbia may enter the European Union without any consequences. On the contrary, we still don't have an orderly border with the Republic of Serbia. Our charengrad hell hasn't been returned, we're keeping quiet about all this. When are these questions coming up? A Kenji with 10,000 acres or more on the other side of the Danube. Croatian grant and cadastrian property. We do not ask these questions as a prerequisite in Serbia's negotiations with the European Union. And now we have this radical phenomenon to say to a war criminal who, according to The Hague Court, is nearing death in view of metastases, most likely there are metastases in his brain, I wouldn't go into it because I haven't seen medical documentation, it may be secret, but rhetoric is exactly the same, with metastases and no metastases. The Croatian state today and the Croatian Army is far more ready than the '90s. Or '91. years...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u89374	Five minutes are up.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u89375	Thank you very much. We are not afraid of his threats, but the drinking towards the victims, according to those we are still looking for, 1000 people for whom we do not have the data that requires destroyed cities and villages, bereaved mothers and children are asking the Croatian state and Croatian government for a far sharper rhetoric, a far more severe reaction to this phenomenon in Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u89376	On behalf of the HDZ club, the respected Gordan Jandrokovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u89377	I thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. 8 days ago, last Thursday, the HDZ Representatives Club held a press conference in the Croatian Parliament and all of what you are saying now we have already indicated, so we have pointed to the soft, almost no reaction from the Croatian side and to the unsuitable behaviour of Serbian authorities. So we said Seselj and his release from The Hague is not only a technical judicial issue, but it is a deep moral and political issue. At the time, the president of the Republic of Josipovic expressed regret because Seselj had left prison, and the foreign minister shamedly then expressed her condolences to Serbia because there are lunatics on its streets. So instead of expressing condolences to the victims, to bow down to the victims, to understand the victim, she expressed her condolences to Belgrade and Serbia and Serbia's leadership, Vukic and Nikolic, as someone told political children Vojislav Seselj. But that's not weird, and I'm going to explain to you now why it's not weird. During his visit to Belgrade, the Croatian foreign minister says, today's leaderships of Croatia and Serbia have nothing to do with events from the 1990s and are not responsible for what happened in the 1990s. And it might have been so in the Croatian public if Seselj hadn't been released, if he hadn't started saying what he was saying, calling Nikolic and Vukic as his political followers. But thanks also to God and Croatian television in Dnevnik, he plays the photos of Nikolic being ordered by Seselj as the Chetnik Duke, as said by Serbian Prime Minister Vukic in Glina in '95. The year he spoke it was a Serbian country and we will fight to keep it Serbian. So we can't officially take the responsibility off these people. And today, apart from the question of Seselj, which I repeat not only technically and judicially, but a deeply ethical question, we need to talk about. In fact, among Croatian citizens, it is a constant indication of why his return is dangerous and what can happen after all this. We are also obliged to point out what today's Serbian policy is doing, and this remains in the shadow of Seselj's exit from The Hague prison. And I will remind you of respected colleagues and colleges, some day Serbian Foreign Minister Dacic says on a round table in Brussels that Serbia's goal is to go out to the open sea, that Serbia has no way out to sea and that its permanent goal remains an exit to the sea. There is no discussion in Croatia, only a few media outlets pass it on. But imagine, that is Serbia's territorial claim to its neighbours. At the same time, military exercises of Serbia and Russia are being held 60km from the Croatian border. We don't discuss it. For the first time since World War II, military exercises have been held 60km from Croatian soil in the area, on the territory of Serbia's Russian-Serbian exercise. At the same time, the European Commission is asking Serbia to impose sanctions on Russia because it is obliged to do so because of signed agreements. The country that claims full membership in the European Union does not respect the European Union and what it signed saying that Serbia is friends with Russia and that it will never go against Russia. Due to these military exercises in Vojvodina, Serbia's defence minister says Serbia has four priorities in its foreign policy. It's Washington, it's Brussels, it's Moscow and it's Beijing. And in order for us as a country that has passed a major Serbian aggression, which has become a full member of the EU today with severe hardship after difficult negotiations, without any debate to support Serbia for joining the EU. It is simply neither moral nor politically justified, and it cannot be so. They must meet the requirements and follow the policy as followed by all 28 member states and all those who propose to one day become members of the EU. And let's open up as a Parliament debate on this, open a debate on Croatian foreign policy Excuse me one more sentence. [[Intruder Stazic: Five minutes have elapsed.]] Let us open a debate on Croatian foreign policy, because it was silenced by Croatia when the property of the Slobodan Milosevic war criminal family was defrosted. Croatia has not taken advantage of the opportunity and has included conditions concerning war crimes and minority rights in the screening for Serbia. It's completely bypassed. Our minister does not go to a meeting of the EU Council of Ministers to discuss Ukraine because she is on vacation. A whole series of gaffs, a whole series of serious mistakes that are very much affecting both the reputation of the Republic of Croatia and our international position. And for that reason, the HDZ Representatives' Club is asking for, also proposing to you from the ruling majority that we open the debate. on Croatian foreign policy. [[Intruder Stazic: Six minutes out.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u89378	In the name of the Representatives' Club, respected Vesna Škara Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u89379	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Our club will join this idea to bring a declaration to the Croatian Parliament for the reason that a similar resolution is being prepared in the European Parliament as well. I think it would be quite right for the European Parliament to take note of the facts and the position of this Parliament. However, we think that the arrows of anger should primarily be directed towards the Hague court. The Hague court has capitulated in front of a person, Vojislav Seselj, accused of war crimes, of crimes against humanitarian law. I will only remind you of a small fact very painful that at the trial for Ovcara, the head of the Yugoslav KOS Aleksandar Vasiljevic directly pointed out to Shessel's troops who executed the people of Ovcara. Therefore, letting such a person go free must have a reaction from Croatia in a way that first responds to the decision, a very strange decision by the Hague Court of Debate. I will remind you that the General Council of the Hague Court, which decides in the case of Seselj, has three judges Judge Antonini from France, was for his release, the judge from Italy also, Judge Niyang who entered the Judiciary Council, was against it. And why was he against it? It's just for these reasons that I listed. So they asked, that is, that judge who singled out his opinion demanded that if Seselj freed him commit himself to the rules of conduct. However, that was lagging behind. Therefore, the Dispute Council did not oblige Seselj or the fact that it would not affect the witnesses, nor gave him a ban on public advances, nor ordered house arrest, nor ordered a police escort, none of which would otherwise be determined for other indictees who were temporarily released. It's a complete precedent and no one's responding to it. And this time, the Serbian government that requested and apparently no one follows the trial here in The Hague in the case of Seselj, the Serbian government has asked that Seselj be directly bound, legally bound to act and conduct. However, that was lagging behind. The Dispute Council did not oblige Seselj to behave, did not oblige Seselj, did not impose restrictions on him in his behaviour on freedom. So, legally speaking, Serbia has nothing to influence, it can't even arrest him, it can't lock him up, it can't do anything because the Hague court has not given express orders. And that's the problem! Croatia needs to react to that too. And through its institutions of executive authority, primarily the Ministry of Justice and the Government, but I think this Croatian Parliament should also be manifested. And for that very reason we support a concrete declaration with concrete convictions, but primarily the Hague court's behaviour in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u89380	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, the respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u89381	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. As we recalled, the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia was established on the basis of UN Security Council Resolution 827 on 25 May 1993. This court was not only founded to judge serious criminals for serious crimes that had to do with hate, so hate and the aim of even extermination of people in a particular area. His goal was further to establish justice by just judging people like the one they released. It is precisely to establish, therefore, their judgment to contribute to the establishment of peace and cooperation among people. Because without it, without the establishment of justice, there is no cooperation. Croatia, and not only all governments, but primarily citizens and those who suffered the most, victims, worked hard to heal these wounds, to establish co-operation, peace. This is what the Hague Court has done to question all that has been achieved. First of all, it damages the victims, damages Croatia as a whole, which has been a victim of aggression, damages it and damages the advanced people it has safe in Serbia, damages Europe. So, to him, that man's place is exactly where they let him go. The court must first of all take care of its credibility, its legitimacy. So, when he did that, he decided whether or not he took care of it. Or now we can really say that after 12 and over years he washes his hands like Pontius Pilate. We at the SDP club primarily support and join President Ivo Josipovic who wrote a sharp letter to the court. We are also joining the initiatives of our euro-parliamentaries, which are being launched right in the European Parliament by the adoption of a resolution. We also like the SDP club on the basis of the powers we have, without calling out, so we often object that the Parliament is losing its legitimacy, and it may be difficult to look into the Rules of Procedure, so we find a provision in Article 159 which just gives the Croatian Parliament the right to adopt acts and what we join the other colleagues of the declaration where we will also discuss such a one I would say on behalf of the club really shameless act that has been done by The Hague court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u89382	Thank you. As I understand it, all the clubs are for a single parliamentary declaration to be drawn up, so I call on the representatives of the clubs to agree on it and to approach the work. Now we have a little problem, technical nature, and my question to you is, the informers say it may take them 15 minutes to remove this malfunction, we can continue working with this stopwatch if you want. We've got an hour on the side, we can all control it, let the IT guys work and we'll continue with the session. ... That's right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay, so we'll keep working. We'll discuss together how we announced two points. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 721; - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Alternative Investment Funds Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 719; The Proposer of both draft laws is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motions. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was held for both legislative proposals by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. I ask, does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposals? Yeah. Deputy Finance Minister respected Igor Radjenovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92367	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, before us there are two laws that have come into force with the EU's accession of 1.7.2013, so as part of the integration of the Republic of Croatia into the EU. And now they have been accepted as they were integrated and now because of compliance with the new Directive 14 of 2013 we are harmonising certain provisions. The main objective of this harmonisation and these amendments and additions to both of these laws is to reduce over-reliance and open-end investment funds with a public offering, hence alternative investment funds, to credit ratings which determine the rating of agencies and when investing in debt financial instruments, and to require them and their own assessment of the creditworthiness of the issuer of such instruments. Therefore, this law also obliges open-end investment funds with a public offering and alternative investment funds to establish, measure and manage risks themselves. On the other hand, HANFA is authorised to monitor the suitability of the process and credit assessment, although it is established by a particular management company as well as risk management policies relating to investments. If this is the case, the HANFA may also require adjustments to the investment risk assessment policies. It's a basic provision, and a basic goal, and a basic mission of the directive itself and I say this is a fairly broad and complex law, professional law, many of the provisions of this law actually meet this... the delivery itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we are talking only about open investment funds, the main thing that is changing here is changes and additions that define the basic and auxiliary activities of the management company. Such establishment and management of voluntary pension funds has been transferred from the auxiliary activities. If permitted under the rules governing the establishment and operation of voluntary pension funds. The main activity was also added to the management of funds established under specific laws, such as the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families. The provisions of the law are further adapted, those provisions of the laws relating to the permitted investment and the restriction and overruns, the restrictions on the investment of open investment funds and are in line with the guidelines of the European Securities and Markets Authority known as ESMA. Furthermore, when we talk about open-end investment funds with a public offering, it is more clearly prescribed and accounting for exposures and a supply-based open-end investment fund with a public offering, and in supervision and that is important, and this applies to both of these types of investment funds, but the supervision carried out by HANFA can also participate, and some other qualified professional person but no longer have the same powers and equal responsibilities as the authorised persons of HANFA. Therefore, HANFA may require data in order to carry out its supervision not only of persons who are entities of supervision or associated persons but also of other persons or entities who may have information useful or necessary for the conduct of surveillance procedures. So, we're strengthening the powers of HANFA. So much for the changes to the Open Investment Fund Act. When we talk about alternative here to the company of alternative investment funds is on some extended, Mr. President I am well concentrated but please make the clubs that are... Maybe they're doing it out there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. So, when we talk about alternative activities, their activities are expanded in a way that can carry out two new activities and the Capital Market Act, portfolio management and investment consulting. In addition, a small company for the management of alternative investment funds with slightly less organisational and other requirements has been established and can delegate jobs to third parties without informing HANFA. One technical question is that it is more clearly prescribed to issue a certificate of interest, not as so far in remembering the share, at the request of the investor within 7 days, since the practice has shown that the certificate of interest is much more complete and useful data. Another change is further harmonisation of depositary behaviour in relation to custody and it is also obliged to keep its own records of money in transaction accounts. And as I said in the open and alternative cases, it is considered that in the supervision of persons auditors and other highly qualified persons have a slightly less authority than the authorised persons and employees of the Croatian Financial Institutions Supervisory Agency known as HANFA. Here is a colleague and colleagues who would be about to change these two laws and, on behalf of the Croatian Government, please accept these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92368	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the HDZ Club, a respected representative, Đuro Popiac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92369	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here we have heard that it is essentially about the technical alignment of these two laws with EU directives. However, here is the opportunity to comment on a few facts and circumstances in which these changes are made but generally also for the state of the capital market in Croatia. As we have heard, the main reason for the change as the promoter explained the changes in the Open Investment Funds and Alternative Funds Acts and the need to install additional mechanisms, to assess the risk of investment and impose a commitment on the funds to establish their own credit assessment, and to assess the risks in order not to rely too much on credit ratings from various credit rating agencies and all in order to protect investors. Now, we need to ask ourselves what that means, how do we do it now? This is the European Directive and more. So, when financial institutions are planning a loan, when loans are credited to countries, high-interest companies justify exactly a poor credit rating of the state or only a company in that country and then believe in credit rating agencies. And precisely high interest rates for the Croatian economy, banks in Croatia justify the high credit risks created by these credit agencies. And as we now need to or must interpret this intention, so the rating agencies are welcome when high financial and interest obligations are imposed on the given loans based on these very poor credit rating agencies. And when it comes to financial institutions, which establish investment funds, then they must further establish their departments, their systems and their mechanisms for assessing and assessing certain risks so as not to overtrust those credit agencies. We see here, of course, one two-faced, and I believe that otherwise, we can also convince ourselves that credit agencies are essentially and for the purpose of certain manipulations of global centres of financial power, but when it comes to them, then it is obvious to add additional mechanisms because they should not be overly trusted. As regards the development of the capital market in Croatia, unfortunately in this area we can also find the same trends as in all other segments of economic life in Croatia, so the capital market is almost non-existent. I don't know if we can remember whether in the last 3 years there's been any or any..., whether on the Croatian stock market or anywhere else, traffic is extremely small and revolves mainly within several companies that are... on the stock market and the financial market is almost dropping, except in the banking industry, so the banking sector is not involved in promoting economic life in Croatia. Our financial market remains banking, we see that people still prefer the most possible surplus of their money to be held in banks regardless of what savings interest is all about, so according to the data that still deposits in banks are growing, that there is no slightest will in Croatia and that any desire and faith for any form of investment has almost died. So so are investment funds, so let's say real estate or people have completely lost any ambition, they don't really believe it, they're afraid to go into any business adventure, and that's all the consequence of naturally catastrophic economic policy and the situation that happened back three years ago. Otherwise, according to HANFA data, 77 open investment funds operate in Croatia today. These funds with a public offering shall be established exclusively with the aim of a joint investment in assets, the collection of public offerings in the fund in transferable securities or other forms of liquid, financial assets and after the principles of... risk. On the other hand, alternative investment funds are set up to achieve defined investment objectives. I can apply very specific alternative non-traditional investment strategies. By way of investment in alternative investment funds, investors can easily invest in very specific strategies, they are designed for a narrow circle of investors, such as investment in energy, natural resources and others. How much can this segment of the financial market actually participate in economic recovery? So, most certainly through the so-called so-called. alternative investment funds. In Croatia, we have an example and at least an attempt to stimulate investment, which is the establishment of economic co-operation funds in 2011 as part of a package of comprehensive economic recovery. These funds for economic co-operation were intended to invest in companies with growth potential, which cannot access capital, i.e. financing by banks, with the investment of private capital and state. However, the examples we have witnessed in the last 3 years, we see that this is not exactly the case, and... is an example of an economic co-operation fund that has invested 50 million kunas of taxpayers' money in one bank. With that intention, the funds for economic co-operation were not set up and that was not the intention. Of course, that bank went bankrupt shortly afterwards. What can justify such a type of investment and behaviour on the financial market? In recent times, acquisitions have also taken place through investment funds, strange acquisitions of these economic co-operation funds that do not assume investment in new production, new added values than resales, and that is, in fact, one desavuation of what was good intention and for which the state was also willing to invest taxpayers' money. When we talk more about funds, we should mention what is being mentioned as the most recent source of capital for Croatian economies, of course, although it has no direct connection to this, but it is ultimately with EU funds. In recent days, we have mentioned very often the disastrous situation in terms of attracting EU funds in recent years, especially after EU accession. We have a situation that we have signed a partnership agreement and a potential 10 billion euros for the period from 2014-2020 we have a situation that this is the only thing that has been done, so the only document that has been prepared, signed and approved is exactly that but it is only the beginning. We have a situation that the regional development of the document, the regional development programme has experienced a debacle, 377 remarks, that we do not know when competitions will be announced and that we do not know when these questions will not be answered here at all and we do not know when other documents and operational programmes and regulations will be prepared and everything that is the prerequisite. And how do entrepreneurs now prepare to attract these funds? On the other hand, if we're talking about 10 billion, if our financial market, if the state has done anything to prepare that part of the capital that people don't have, too. So 50, 60 or 70% of returns are assumed, and what about the rest where that capital is, where another 10 billion euros is just for the agriculture of 12 billion capital that each investor will have to have in addition to what is expected of the EU. Is the financial industry that, whether banks, the state has prepared specific programmes and projects and co-financing methods, means of guaranteeing or any other mechanism to enable the withdrawal of these funds. We're just saying that that's what we're at our disposal. And where they are all levers that need to be made possible by the economy like Austria, Poland, Italy are those that are skilled in not being questionable. How can a small businessman who is already in capitalisation problems be able to secure that part of his assets in addition to the European funds? So if we're talking about 10 billion funds we at least have so much to have in some financial package to be able and able to withdraw that money at all. I am afraid that as the Croatian government is treating this unprepared completely unable to prepare the relevant documents and the documents, and what happens when a serious problem comes and once it is accepted when we have to face the fact that there is no capital in Croatian businesses in Croatian peasants, when we will face the situation that credits cannot be raised for the part that the investor must finance itself and we will finally wonder that we are failing again and that we have lost the opportunity for an effective recovery mechanism for the Croatian economy. We will accept these amendments to the law because I say these are technical remarks, but many further open issues remain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92370	Thank you. We have two replicas, first Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92371	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Popijac is very interested in discussing these two points best says how much we in Croatia experience these open funds and alternative investment funds in the first place. However, it is not important that we experience them as we experience them but as much as those who might participate in the process experience them. So Croatia has made the legislative framework in line with EU directives and what has happened? It's practically nothing. Obviously, in Croatia none of those who have money that could draw money do not want to take the risk on themselves, participate in the process of economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia are simply waiting for the state to do something and then everyone to shake hands with the state's money. Well, that's how my late grandmother would know. But that's also one question that we can't keep quiet here in this high house when we're discussing these points, to call all those who might be involved in it. and those who shake hands with money and Croatian businessmen and Croatian citizens to join in these processes. So let's just look at how many national bonds of Croatia have been purchased from such funds. However, you have raised one key issue for me, a question that concerns both state-owned companies and local self-government units, utility companies, therefore all those who wish to participate in participating the use of EU funds. So from where they're going to withdraw on favourable terms that own component or whatever we want to call it, em aren't educated how to make programs, em at this point simply don't see how to get the funds. And that's why we're spinning in one closed circle, making laws, unfortunately some have tried to use some things, and that's what we've seen for that bank that's failed in a completely different way. But real assistance to the economies who have failed and this process of ownership restructuring, which unfortunately in Croatia is inconclusive and that is the only way in principle that this economy will recover from going amongst other things and into ownership restructuring.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92372	The reply to the replica, the Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92373	Thank you very much. I think that the topic of all the topics we should be dealing with is essentially what we are left with right now when we talk about European funds it is to face up to the fact that we will be ready in each segment and in terms of the structure of administration and capacity to implement effectively everything that will be carried out as projects and programmes, which, given the hundreds of new people who have come through various agencies and ministries, we can assume that they may have already learned a little bit about it. But what will happen to that fact when all the businessmen face the truth primarily that we won't be able to get in the banks loans to finance those own expenses that will not be or will not be in return, and even what is in return must be financed by the moment of return. So I'm saying if 10 billion is at least another 10 billion, you have to in the financial flows of quality loans, programs, whatever, so guarantees are provided. We don't talk about it at all, so I don't think there's a single instance. We are now dealing with a form which unfortunately is now the biggest obstacle, so instead of having those programs already prepared, signed, adopted a year ago, we are now getting pucks, correcting mistakes, and who knows when Christmas, New Year's coming, the administration announces the call for competitions, and we are aware that this will not happen because it simply won't have a time. So what we're going to do and what we're going to do is actually ensure that these money can really be withdrawn effectively and that it is one of the main levers and stoppers for the new development of the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92374	Time. Second replica, respected Stjepan Milinkovic. As close as I can get to the subject, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92375	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you mentioned the Rural Development Programme by your colleague Popijac, and unfortunately you mentioned these 377 remarks, and it is really questionable when it will be possible, when it will be possible to implement it. I've talked about it, and maybe I've been boring a lot, and over the course of this year, I've warned a lot, and I wish I wasn't right. I wish it was possible this year in 2014, but unfortunately it's been this year. I want to say that here from the level of the unit of local self-government and the environment from which I come every unit has projects so far ready. We have them for our 5-6 million kunas, not to talk about the OPGs, not to say who they are eager to wait for, they're simply in one of those problems, but it's true that what with those levers that they need to prepare and help come to that realization as it happened in the countries in Poland or in these others that they used the most in that part. And I think that any delay in that part of the grant carries simply this further collapsed agriculture and further collapse and ultimately in such a catastrophic state that will no longer be possible to cure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92376	Replication response, Djuro Poppie.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92377	Thank you very much. But here's how much they're telling me, warning me, probably a few ears they should hear is here after all, but otherwise they don't care. So let's say again, what is now tragic is that we still don't have the basic documents adopted, and already for the period during 2014, so it's said and justified that we will be able to use these money in the coming years, but every year comes so much. So it's supposed to be done, there's no excuse that we're in a nine-state package that's the same but they're the best ones to solve it and they're the best ones to call the competition, the best ones are already taking the money. So we definitely didn't do what we needed to do here. But you're right, now all those who at the level of small OPGs, at the level of their economies expect funds will be welcomed by one situation that when they go to a financial institution there actually treats them like nothing happened, so they will again expect sufficient capitalisation, diverse guarantees, mortgages,... probably all together under mortgages and kiss the door and go home. So it can be the most tragic fate of all of this, that, out of great expectations because of the unprepared mechanisms, we simply lose the most of the money, or it will pick up what usually happens large systems and even more monopolize the entire area of agrarians in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92378	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on these two agenda points.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92379	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 721. The debate on the final text of the law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please vote. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 114 votes to pass the law amending and supplementing the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92394	We move to the next point - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Administration Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 744 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Dear Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92395	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So you have before you a draft of amendments to the Tax Administration Act which, I say, consists of two large parts, one part which erases a good part of the existing provisions and will be the first part of my presentation and the second part something more creative about which we introduce new institutes in the Tax Administration Act with the aim of making the tax administration itself more efficient and efficient. So as I said these amendments and additions, it is proposed to delete a series of provisions in order to harmonize the uniform treatment of tax administration civil servants and other civil servants. In particular, certain areas such as the calling and implementation of a tender procedure for tax administration officials, as well as for positions or jobs of government officials, the way in which these jobs are filled, certain types of serious violations of official duty, temporary and permanent transfers, the distance and the adoption of acts related to distance from the state service are prescribed by the Law on civil servants, and we estimate that the same matter does not need to be regulated twice in two laws. That's why a series of these provisions are deleted. Thus, this proposal of the Tax Administration Act, which concerns the procedure for the implementation of a public tender for the Director of the Tax Administration, also complies with the provisions of the basic law, namely the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials of the State. And according to the law cited under this proposal, and according to the old director of the IRS, he was a state official, but according to this proposal, so he appoints and resolves the Government and, on a proposal from the Minister of Finance. With regard to the above, it is therefore deleted by this draft law of the provisions concerning and the invitation to tender for the Director of the Tax Administration, the Deputy and Assistant Director. Specific conditions to be met by a person are also prescribed and would be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister of Finance. Therefore, at the position of director, as well as a special professional condition which must be met by the Deputy Director for the schedule to that place of work. So much for erasing, changing and harmonising. Now I'm going to go to this more creative part about organizational reconstruction. It is proposed that the procedures for the implementation of the collection and enforcement procedure for the payment of taxes, contributions and other charges for the implementation of the implementation of the budget revenue which have been established by the establishment units of the Ministry of Finance and the monitoring of the collection are exclusively carried out in the administrative units of the district offices. So we're taking them one step further. In addition to the implementation of the implementing acts prescribed by specific laws, so other than the implementation of small performances, the implementation of small values that would remain at the premises. What is also a change of organisational and good is that the Office for Great Obligors is set up as a regional office, rather than as part of a central office within the programme. Some of you certainly know who we're working with with the World Bank,... the project, the modernisation of the Tax Administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's one of the measures and these acts that he's carrying out here. And a measure that is particularly important to us or a change that is more important to us or more important to us than these others is the possibility of, therefore, granting special status to the taxpayer, and for the purpose of fulfilling the voluntary fulfilment of the tax obligations. It's so-called. The Institute of Horizontal Monitoring, which can be said in a Colloquial manner in particular to good bonds. It is one of the ways in which tax risks are processed, i.e. the system of control, with an emphasis on the pre-planned tax risks to which they are encouraged, so voluntary compliance with the tax obligations. The objective of this horizontal monitoring is to neutralise the negative effects both on the part of the Tax Administration and on the part of the taxpayer in such a way as to establish a system of mutual trust and transparency between the IRS and the IRS, which will significantly affect the economy of the IRS, and tax risks are resolved without the conduct of long and expensive tax supervision procedures. Access to such a system is exclusively tax follow-up voluntary by the taxpayer, since it implies full openness to the tax administration without hand-in-hands, hence a tax control order, and the IRS does not pose any risks since it can be interrupted under conditions and in a way that we will further prescribe the regulation and continue, so this type of supervision can be interrupted and continued with regular tax supervision. What is popular today would say wine situation for orderly taxpayers and therefore for the Tax Administration, and thus all taxpayers or citizens as a whole because they save on, raise efficiency and save on costs. Therefore, tax bonds must also be laid down to obtain tax status for the purpose of promoting voluntary compliance with tax obligations. Some technical conditions are prescribed, but given the type of this session, I wouldn't go too far in detail right now. If there are any questions, I'd be happy to answer them. Here are the ladies and gentlemen, so much for the amendments to the IRS Act. I believe and hope that this amendment and the addition of the law will receive your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92396	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92397	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, the Deputy Minister made it very, very voluntary to explain as if nothing was going on in principle. However, we did last year, more precisely 11.12. The Tax Administration Act, which is currently in force, was published in the National Journal. A regulation on the internal organisation of the Ministry of Finance is currently in force in the People's Journal of 21.12. On the basis of these two acts, a Regulation on the internal structure of the Ministry of Finance should be established which has not been made so far. And now colleagues and colleagues, if it were another institution that didn't produce several thousand solutions a day and signed by some people under special authority, then a man might as well shut it all up. However, the law passed a year ago, from the root to change the structure and functioning of the Tax Administration and then, in a year's time, do not implement it from the law and now offer legal changes that are very interesting. And I'm glad the deputy minister split them into two parts. One is the one about changing the functioning and work of the IRS. However, the first one is far more interesting. Why? Well, because a large part of the tax administration's management at this point is not meeting the conditions of the applicable law. And I'm going to say with full responsibility that this law wants to be fixed and legalized by the illegal things that are currently in the IRS. That's a fact. And we can talk each other out of this one way or another, but I'm asking myself why after a year of this kind of change and erasing this many articles in the Tax Administration Act? Look, colleagues and colleagues are deleted articles 11, 48, 49, 50, 51 and 52 exclusively defining the conditions. And you will see what will happen, many who are now in charge of the IRS do not meet these conditions, and the amendments to this law will satisfy them. So that's a fact. Is it possible that it is the creation of an addiction of the tax administration to those who appointed them that the IRS is not doing what it is supposed to do but working on someone's directives? And what's crucial in this country is that the IRS is depolitized, moving away from politics, being professional and people doing their job. It's a key thing. And as long as we in this House as the people chosen by the people don't understand it, and we don't insist on such a tax administration law, this will be all that's going on. Also, some bad co-operation with the DORH in the last two, three years is probably the same consequence. However, what concerns me most in the past year has been issued by a series of solutions, based on the applicable law of 11.12. And the question is, are those solutions legal or are they illegal? Were they signed by people who had the authority to do so and who could have been in those places to sign them or didn't sign them? So, what's the worst those solutions are issued in tax offices that don't exist. So, you have in the IRS records were purchased with central office inscriptions, district offices, outposts, however they were never set up. And the seals were also made, according to the new structure never used the same thing. Are they all going to throw themselves? Because look, any dispute to initiate someone against a tax administration solution issued in this way he'll get that dispute. Why? Because it was betrayed by an institution that wasn't set up as it was said to be set up. It's not a regulation made. But what's worrying is that everyone thinks they can be the head of the IRS. It's not 10 years of leadership training enough for someone to be the head of the IRS. So that's why things happen to us that happen to us. And what I was saying a year ago, unfortunately, has just been confirmed. He's trying to make some kind of structure that doesn't have any excuse. What has proved to be Croatia, that the Tax Administration needs, is the so-called "O-ho-ho" years ago. Big taxpayers' office. Because a tax fraud by a big taxpayer can't practically make thousands of small. And that's why it was necessary to educate people in particular, to train people to read the balance sheets, to simply monitor certain transactions that are not common and that people in the IRS don't meet on a daily basis. However, we can see that the divorce is now taking place and that tax office for large taxpayers. Who's in the interest of who? Well, there aren't thousands of big companies in Croatia. She's got a few. And today at the moment when you scan the document and for a thousand seconds pass it on to the other end of the world to disperse something that should have been the center and the nuclearus in principle where they should have worked the highest quality people precisely to control these tax frauds. Why do you do what you do? Although all the results of that Office of High Taxenarians have not been known since the beginning of the draft, it was not known when the office was established that they can say it from their own experience, which will be there but we tried to do something to make a step. And there's no IRS defined that you're going to draw and that's how it's going to be for the next 15 years. As some other laws change, as life changes, and ultimately the impact of the economic crisis has a significant impact on the way the IRS works. The tax administration must look and revive problems that plague the economy and that torture Croatian citizens. So that and that central tax office, actually, tax office for large taxpayers just needs to be developed that way. The same as the district offices and offices around the cities that were simply supposed to move in this... However, I repeat, I am sorry that one institution that has worked no matter what. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is it best, one way or another, that it should have changed? It probably is. And it is unfortunately due to the creation of uncertainty, which is the biggest problem, when people who need to sign a million-dollar solution or a hundred million, you have seen the INA case of 300 million, get a sense of uncertainty, that there is no institution behind them. It's the key to the whole story. You can't expect someone to expose themselves if you don't give him status, if you don't give him security and that simply the law that passed this House of Commons and he's implementing him that no one can practically do anything to him, not that he's a protected bear and that he can do whatever he wants, but that he did according to all the legal regulations that it is. Is this the law? Unfortunately not. Because if someone sees someone working in a place where they didn't have the conditions and now the law changes so that they stay in that job in an institution that punishes not exactly such but similar violations, then what message we send, which we send to these people. I won't say they're all great, every grain has a weed in it. The second thing is whether we really think about all the tasks, and that's what I was talking about yesterday when we talked about the VAT law, about the qualification structure of people in the tax administration that all jobs will be able to do what they do. I opened the HZZO issue yesterday. Why? Well, because as a man who's practically a child of the Ministry of Finance, I'm a politician for clean bills. Because look, if someone's teaching him that someone didn't give him money, she needs to say that someone, and that's the tax administration doing a job for someone and that job costs money. And that should simply be clarified and clearly defined in the Tax Administration Act. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce and a number of other things transferred by automation from the former state, income management practically to the tax administration. But you don't have it here. The key change and this law is only changed because of Articles 11, 48, 49, 50, 51 and 52, exclusively. These are all other technical changes. Because you're looking at colleagues and colleagues, if a rule had been passed by law and regulation then I'd say it's clear that according to that regulation on the structure and functioning of the tax administration some things don't apply and don't work, so let's change that now. However, we have virtually not given the opportunity to bring the tax administration back together by a new law and a new regulation, and now we are going to change the law. And to conclude, the HDZ Club cannot support such a bill for one reason, we believe that the tax administration should be depoliticalised, professionalised, removed from politics and do exclusively professionally its work. What happened and what wants to legalize with this erasure of these articles is a pure politicisation of the tax administration, concreteization of the situation for the next 5 years so that when there is a change of government it will be difficult to make some changes so you agree or disagree, and that's what's not good, that's what's not good. Because if under the conditions of the head man of the tax administration, for his assistants, deputies, their assistants, it would seem to have to be exclusively graduate economists or graduate lawyers with long-standing work in financial institutions that are related to this. All others, unfortunately, the director of a company, a utility company and similar simple processes, development, movements on the financial market cannot understand or know, with a lot of respect for everyone. But when we put these conditions in place, when we get professionals, then no one smart enough to have a minister of finance coming in for the next 50 years will be a trap to think of changing people who are from professions. But if the finance minister feels that people don't meet those needs, then the logical thing is to change. And in the end, he's the one who determines politics. However, this article 50th and the erasure of these articles brings us back to a time before our fellow Church and that is what is not good. So, we're all no matter how much, but the Ministry of Finance may be the ministry that has evolved most over the past 12 years from all ministries and in organisational form and everywhere. After all, such are the assessments of all international institutions. You have a project by the World Bank about the structure and functioning of the tax administration with the central office in the City of Zagreb and with the reorganization of the City of Zagreb because with this many exposures, it simply doesn't make sense. In times when taxpayers no longer need to come practically physically to the tax administration but can do it in some other way, we are dealing exclusively with how to legalize party lovemaking and that is something that unfortunately neither the tax administration nor the finance ministry and then automatically neither brings any good to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and that is why we cannot support such a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92398	Thank you. On behalf of the club of Independent Representatives Linic, Vuksic and Hodzic, the respected representative Slavko Linic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92399	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister with colleagues and colleagues. Fellow Members and colleagues will also not support that proposal. In the debate, I will try not to be too personal because it is actually very difficult not to be personal in this proposed law. In just one year, the government has changed its policy in relation to the tax administration, and only one reason we adopted the proposal last year was to trace the depoliticalisation of the tax administration as it was a year earlier in customs and as we have in the police and other bodies doing sensitive jobs. The government, therefore, was on the verge of depoliticalising sensitive financial businesses in the Ministry of Finance. And that part also made reorganisational changes and all that was needed. With this proposal, we see a policy wish to manage with a very risky time during the Ministry of Finance and to influence the independence of the bodies we consider to be of great importance when we see in the last year a series, a series of processes that go precisely because of non-compliance with financial regulations, non-payment of tax obligations, and I would say, abuse in the use of social funds, regardless of whether from a state or a local level. And in that part, we want to manage as a policy with the tax administration. And all of these changes are mostly part of it because if you read the first paragraph, the explanation, then you will see the basic reason for the adoption of the Tax Administration Act, they were changes regarding new jobs... accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Community, which is not true. That is not why the change has taken place, but rather because of the change in government policy in relation to governance. And of course, there is clear enough to say that it is essential to appoint a head of the tax administration who must not be an expert, but a political addict, and therefore we are changing not only the provisions on the selection of leaders and their essential associates in order to be independent, in order to still meet the strict criteria set by this Assembly. We've prescribed in the law that these must be criteria. No, politics will determine what the criteria will be because they will first know.... Yes, that's what's hard again... contrary to the documents we paid and we could certainly use because we had a number of tips, not to mention the World Bank project that meant a lot to us in establishing a modern tax administration, a significant contribution to last year's proposals. But let's move on, what we wanted next, we wanted every tax officer or every tax officer in the IRS to be responsible and that we could control him. Well, just the debate in this House has shown, it seems to me that it was a representative of Tyrell who insisted, and we all accepted it, everyone, that anyone who works in the tax administration, in order to be responsible, must submit their property card. Why? Because it takes when you have such great powers, such great independence, to control what happens to tax officials. That we just need to know if they're rich, that we have to control them. That's what we discussed in this Assembly Hall a year ago, and we thought it was good to set up that control. Now we don't think that's necessary. No, that's not necessary, that's a suggestion. We don't need to control what happens to our taxpayers, they have to be free. Why? Because they have to account for politics, not expertise and responsibilities. And what we're erasing is that it's a shock, you just can't understand that after a year, someone changes their approach to the organization of such an important service. We also thought in such sensitive times, so many police investigations, reports, prosecutions, that it was very important that we get for these important persons in the tax administration and checks, security checks, that we know whether people who work there have some, I would say, past sins that wouldn't make us do such sensitive jobs. And we delete it, we don't think, no, if the minister remembers he can ask, so he'll get an answer. So, these security, I'd say, checks that we've put in place that really people have authority as a tax officer in front of each party. Yeah, I've been checked, I'm sure, I've given my tax card, I'm independently making my assessment, I'm making my own decision. And we're erasing it. And we're erasing it, we don't think it's necessary. Now I'm just asking, and what happened in a year is that we're significantly changing access to the organization and responsibility of a tax service like this? Then it's also a shock and a shock to say that the tax administration doesn't need such a solution in the law as we had because it's nothing more than overlapping with some other or antiquity with some other regulations. And imagine in that same Ministry of Finance we prescribed such regulations for customs service. That's what we have for the police. So why? Because simply the tax administration is a service that has special jobs that are specific and needs to be regulated independently of the Service Act. No, now we don't think it's necessary, it's an antinomy. So why did we let that antinomy into customs, why in the police, why in some other law enforcement bodies, etc.? Well, I guess because there's some importance to this service, but obviously for this government means tax services more... Then imagine in particular we regulate the possibility of moving, moving, we have summer months where really officials should be transferred to tourist resorts, destinations, it simply needs to be a huge opportunity and freedom to really make the tax administration in supervision effective. No, we don't need that either. You don't have to let that happen. No, because again we want a simple clerk to sit in his office and do nothing. That no one has the right to send him to the Adriatic or somewhere where something is going on, so we need to intervene. I don't know how to explain to myself what happened in a year that the government is changing its policy. Therefore, this is not an improvement in text, this is not an EU requirement, this is not a need to work, this is a change in government policy. An independent body that is the IRS should become a politically controlled body and such a proposal where we return political oversight of the IRS is unacceptable and that is why our club will not vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92400	Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92401	Dear fellow Linic, when you as a former minister, but also fellow Shuker, you are assessing this law that it actually allows me to re-politize the IRS to believe you really more about it. However, I think that in addition to the problem of politicisation and the danger of politicisation of the Tax Administration, this law further opens Pandora's box of influence not only of politics but of stakeholders, I would even say the criminal groups that I will show you on two examples can influence the work of the Tax Administration and destroy companies. You probably know the case of Jadran Metal from Rijeka and Unimer from Čakovec, when two companies from 140 jobs were destroyed as part of tax control and because of illegal practices and tax inspectors' solutions. And gradual helplessness, and the fact that it's anti-chasual treatment, all of them gave their opinions that they could give except for the IRS or part of the IRS, and no one has the authority and the intervention and the opportunity to bring down an illegal solution. The Adriatic Metal is waiting and waiting for the opening of a pre-fashion settlement and cannot be welcomed, and Unimer Čakovec is also in a state of failure due to a cut-off commitment of 6 million kuna. The second-degree solution or second-degree action under the existing legislative framework is not well resolved. The same service that acted in the first degree cannot be the second stage of resolving this dispute. And for this reason, I join you in saying that this law cannot be supported but we must seek solutions other than the influence of politics and the influence of these interested criminal groups on the work of the IRS.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92402	The reply to the replica Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92403	Which answers that as minister in my term I have indeed met with a number of bad solutions, I would say illegal solutions. But as Minister, I didn't dare to influence anyone to change that solution. I have also called on working groups, and we have particularly discussed all the problems in this regard, special work meetings, but I have never allowed myself as a minister to demand that someone change because the IRS is the IRS. But that's why the provisions are put in that we need to know who's coming there, that there can't be a man who doesn't know, that there can't be a man who's not educated, that there has to be a man who's independent of who we can control whether he's got some extra income or not because of such solutions. Therefore, there is no one's right to affect the taxpayers must be independent and error must be detected within the tax system. We've been changing systems, trying to increase that responsibility to a whole team of tax experts, but as you can see, this government doesn't care anymore, and it still only wants political-like personnel. What's the point of that, where's it going? No comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92404	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the Club of Croatian Labourists-Party of Work, colleague Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92405	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. When we brought a little more than a year ago here in this House of Higher House a new Tax Administration Act, we said we were finally going and putting things in the right place, we discussed, we agreed, and we all agreed that it was extremely important to know who it is and how it works in the IRS and who it is and what the results are. We're not gonna back this bill because we're on the trail of both the first and second clubs and we claim that this is solely because it suits individuals so they can work in the IRS without being competent to do so. And that's what brings us not two steps back but a lot, a lot of steps back. Because as much as we're trying to say in this country that there are certain structures that can and can do something, we're still new after a year, we didn't exactly want to do it, we just wanted to fool you or weld you into thinking that we're doing something but there's going to be a time when we're going to get back on our own. We're talking about depolitisation of the IRS, and that's why these amendments to the law are not good. Indeed, the tax administration should be an institution that should at no time have any policy-related receipts and interest groups. If we fail to achieve this, we do not have citizens' trust, we do not trust legal entities, and in this we are convinced every day of unequal tax oversight and mistreatment, which leads to extremely dangerous situations. My colleague Lesar only mentioned two cases, and I'm going to rely on them as well. So we have a case where tax supervision happens without any basis, a tax entity is cut off almost 11 million kunas of some kind of tax, there's no article in the law, there's no article in the rules, there's no article in anything. We warn, we write memos, we ask questions, we go to the minister, there is a task force that is responsible for solving a particular problem and what counterpart Linic said earlier, the problem cannot be solved. At that moment, trying to do the best that can be done, a letter is sent to the Director of the Tax Administration, in which he prays that if he really thinks it is so he chooses to do tax supervision in the same, in all entities involved in the same activity. Head of the Tax Administration sends to Unimer Čakovec Tax Administration, which says literally this: Good afternoon, we are from the Tax Administration and we have come to tax oversight by the order of representative Nancy Tyreli. It's a terrible situation. The company is cutting off a fine of over 6 million kuna, a company that does not have a single tax debt on the basis of taxes, contributions, anything, a company that has worked for so many years, a company that has done everything according to the PS to operate on the Croatian market. She's got six million and so many kunas over her head. The business partners who have worked with them all these years are asking for a million kuna advance that they can even enter their yard because if we give them the goods, and they have a 6 million kuna obligation so that we can collect our claim. These are situations that the IRS cannot afford. But suppose there are certain situations where, in first-degree tax oversight, we can make a mistake, and where certain tax officials who have come into tax supervision can make a record the way they did. What's going on? The second stage, which is slow, a debt, where people in several months in situations that rule on our Croatian economy are failing, people are running out of work, each day being less and less employed. In the second degree, we get first-degree confirmation and the legal entity goes to the Administrative Court. We had an Internal Audit Office at the Ministry of Finance. We removed it simply after Mr. Shegon left the Ministry of Finance, and we don't need that office anymore. Well, I guess it was that office just because of those situations. We're all human, we can all make a mistake, let's see if anyone's misjudged or misjudged. The situation would be resolved much faster, the problems would be resolved much faster, and the taxpayers would have information at the moment that the Tax Administration is their business partner and that the Tax Administration cares that each legal entity operates and operates on the Croatian market. On the one hand, we end everything we remove, act as we behave, we don't care about anything, but in this law we now pass horizontal law, I don't know what article, so we bring horizontal management and we claim that the IRS and taxpayers must be business partners, but in order for someone to enter the horizontal management of the sea to meet certain conditions. So 3 years of review must be positive, must have an internal structure of financial control, I don't know how many conditions. How many companies, deputy, we have information about how many companies satisfy, say legal entities in Croatia meet these conditions to become partners with the Tax Administration. So what isn't every legal entity in the Republic of Croatia partner to the Tax Administration, so doesn't it take that little craftsman who works for 20 years, who employs himself and possibly another family member or another employee to be business partners to the IRS? So we do division again, we get privileged again, and we do what we want again. So we have on one hand to remove the articles that fellow Shucker previously listed, that in the IRS, people who don't meet the conditions can work again. When we picked the first principal through a public tender we said let's get something going and something's going on. Now again, we don't need public tenders, we put our people on our own, and then we have horizontal management where we allow these people to be business partners again just the chosen ones. And we said before that every employee in the IRS came, a large majority of them in a situation that has the fear of signing any solution because who's above me and who's going to figure it out. So we're setting up our people, so if I make a good solution, but that good solution doesn't suit anyone, then that someone above me, they're going to replace me very elegantly to make another solution that suits someone. What are we doing? Where are we going? We ask everyone to work honestly, we ask everyone to be correct, for all of us entrepreneurs and craftsmen have become thieves who need to be controlled, but not all thieves, some of us will be taken as our business partners. Deputy, I would really like you to tell me how many people, i.e. legal entities, can be a business partner under this horizontal management scheme of the IRS. What about all those who aren't audit bonds? What are they to the IRS? So we're doing horizontal management to negotiate and negotiate, to avoid possible inconveniences, so that the legal entities don't come into a situation where the IRS has been monitoring them for two or three or four years and eventually determine some kind of irregularity that they've made because then we have a problem with the first degree, with the second degree and with the administrative procedure. And it's all going on for a very long time, so we'll become business partners to negotiate how the law should apply. What about the opinion and guidance of the IRS? How do they apply? Why is it an unequal act? Why does a tax collector in Rijeka make one record for the same supervision and a tax collector in Koprivnica for the same such supervision of the second record. Why aren't we synchronised and why aren't we even? If there is an opinion on the Tax Administration pages with a classification and a manual number, then that opinion should help entrepreneurs so much that they are quoted and done as the Tax Administration has instructed. No, we allow every tax collector to write his own opinion and each tax collector to interpret the law in his own way. And then when we get into trouble, we say problems we'll solve with our business partners, but only those who are the bonds of the audit, who have an internal structure and something like that. All these others remain in the first, second degree and administrative procedure, and we are talking about job growth. Because of tax controls, the way tax supervision is done by companies is ruined because they are being investigated by large fines, because they are being blocked by jury accounts. And one more thing, the IRS, when it blocks the jury account, we know that the taxpayer has closed it. Today getting to craftsmanship is a great art. If you blocked someone's jury account before you went into tax control under the presumption that they won't be able to pay the fine that you're about to give him, then it's a very, very dangerous practice. Because this taxpayer, whose tax administration is in charge of supervision and who has severed his sentence, will not give any bank in Croatia credit for trade funds, which means that the taxpayer is failing. And now it's not just about small craftsmen who have one or two employees, it's about companies that have been on the Croatian market for 20 years and more. It's about companies that have an enviable number of employees. These companies had to and were forced to open pre-departure proceedings for a large part and then wait for months for the pre-department decision, because our law does not say to them when the court has to make a decision that the pre-departure procedure is approved. They can't run for HBOR loans, they can't be credited for business bank loans, because business banks don't take more mortgages on their properties eventually and the equipment they have in millions, because it doesn't mean anything to them anymore anyway. Because to whom today the bank will sell a 500 grand or a million kuna machine when the economy is gone and no one is working. We have one vicious circle, and instead of giving the IRS legitimacy and having it truly as a business partner, a depolitized institution that we're sure is going to make every tax oversight truly the basis of the law and that what's written in that law will be fair. Because the record has been written and written by an officer who is also under control and who is responsible for everything he does today, we are changing the laws, or the Tax Administration Act, so that we can go back 20 years and do everything we tried to do just so that we can re-emerge on big things and that we can help stakeholders and individuals who are similar to us, and then these individuals will become our business partners, and for everyone else we don't care about, let them shut down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92406	Thank you. The replica of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92407	My colleagues Tyrelli and you mentioned in your debate the case of Adriatic metal from Rijeka and Unimer from Čakovec. As I did in my replica, we heard what the former finance minister replied to. And indeed, by the illegal conduct of the IRS, individuals in the IRS are ahead of destruction and collapse. Here in the Chamber is the head of the IRS Mr. Shuvag and for this topic has shown absolutely no interest, nor even listened to your debate and what I was saying. Mr. Shuvag, please, when you return to the IRS, take the items of the Adriatic Metal from Rijeka and Unimer Čakovec, and if you personally make sure that it was only a single sentence, write me that you will confirm legally. But if you have any doubt that it was illegal to treat individuals in these two cases of individuals in the Agram affair, I ask you to file a report to the State's Attorney's Office for suspicion of possible corruption. These are two examples where we warn you against the illegal destruction of companies, the guessing of criminal groups dealing with waste management in Croatia. You react to these things, don't let the thing go on and tomorrow there'll be four, five, six, ten. I expect you to, but I really ask you to look at the items and answer me that you are convinced that it was a legal act. If there's a hint of doubt with you, and you should be the most capable financial supervisor in this country because you're the head of that IRS act according to your... and stop destroying Croatian entrepreneurs by influence that I do not say now [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92408	Thank you very much. Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92409	I thank the esteemed vice president. So, fellow Tireli, in your debate on behalf of the Laburista Club, you have documented the debate with a concrete example of UNIMER from Čakovec, so the company that deals with the purchase of secondary raw materials. The company has indeed established the obligation of the income tax on capital totalling more than 6 million kuna, with the fact that we need to know the comparisons in order to make the company's share capital amount to 8 million kuna. So, by executing this tax administration solution under the tax supervision that company actually fails. The problem, therefore, is inconsistencies of the General Tax Law and the Waste Management Act by which the purchaser of secondary raw materials needed to verify the identity of the supplier. That's what the IRS says. We know that in the County of Međimurje, mainly in more than 90% of cases, secondary raw materials suppliers are members of the Roma national minority. So what I want to point out is that the problem with identity checks is almost impossible. And in addition to that, in the legal regulations, nowhere really decided, clear and enforceable, I stress the enforceable, it doesn't say that this identity was to be verified. Therefore, it is unacceptable that economic operators fail because of the non-compliance of the legal rules, I said the General Tax Law and the Law on Law Management, or because of the absence of regulations. Therefore, the assumption of legal, credible functioning and domestic economic operators, as well as potential investors from abroad, is precisely the existence of harmonised legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92410	Nancy Tyrelli, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92411	Thanks, pals. Here's to the replica. Uncertainty of the law is a big problem, but the problem I see in this example in these two examples that we have mentioned is the following. So, we've fined two firms without a legal basis based on reflection and conversation that we should solve the problem of buying out secondary raw materials. And it's technically going like this. At the Ministry of Finance, we sit down as finance minister, interior minister and environmental minister and say we have a problem with buying out secondary raw materials. We also have these situations that you said, from stealing identities and beyond, which is impossible to prove. We have that meeting in the 1st month of one year, and we've done tax surveillance a few months before, and we've punished two companies under the impression that that's the way it's supposed to be. Yesterday we had a income tax law here where we warned about the same things again. The law on sustainable waste management continues to allow cash payments. Yesterday we put the Tax Tax Act on income 12% of the advance tax on the purchase of secondary raw materials but we must not afford to continue to pay in cash. The payment has to be made on the current account, we will prevent this theft of the identity that is happening to us, and every taxpayer who deals with the purchase of secondary raw materials will be safe because the money paid to me, and I will then, on the basis of my current receipt, answer to how much income I received in a given year on the basis of handing over the secondary raw materials. As long as we don't do it, we've got Pandora's box open, we've got crime, we've got thieving and they're suffering in most cases fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92412	Deputy Finance Minister Igor Radjenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92413	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I was thinking eventually since it was just clubs, and there's no individual debates yet. To be honest, I expected perhaps a little more and more debate over this bill since we have been changing the law for over a year. So as a representative of the proposer and as deputy minister, you are sometimes in a more pleasant and sometimes more unpleasant situation over certain laws. When the laws change quickly, then you're in this more unpleasant situation, but here I am today trying to survive it. I must also say that as your former colleague, I am also thinking that in some future aliterations of the Rules of Procedure, we may consider that directors of such large administrations as the Tax and Customs Administrations may not be able to speak about some others right now, perhaps even get a business opportunity to speak at a plenary session when we talk about these topics because it is really important topics, sophisticated topics, and it is good that people in such important positions and so responsible places have the opportunity to talk at this plenary session. And also, I hope that it will not be taken as a doctor, it would be good if a good series of these topics were opened at board meetings where the Director of the Tax Administration and Assistant Minister of Finance could speak and answer a series of these questions that were raised here. Short to just answer about business partners, how explicitly you asked. 18 thousand taxpayers, therefore, according to what my colleagues tell me today, who are paying 90 thousand VAT. So those who satisfy the current rules actually meet these conditions according to future rules. Those who have three years of audits etc. It may be another taxpayer if he enters that audit but it is 18 thousand of the most important taxpayers, I repeat, who work over 90% of the VAT and where the disorder of each or several of them significantly affects the realisation of VAT as our most significant income in our budget. As far as this topic is concerned, which we're opening in quite detail, and so I'm saying maybe it's hard to talk about at the plenary session, maybe it's not the happiest topic I have to say that some of the cases that we've talked about here, and I can't be more detailed about tax evasion, the Administrative Court has confirmed the correctness of the tax administration, even though some of you have said there were certain, I don't remember any more of which verbs, but there have been harder words. So the Administrative Court has confirmed the conduct of the tax administration and that so far the legal solutions have not been sufficiently defined, sufficiently precise evidence of our proposal which we discussed yesterday and which we will soon vote on income tax where we are precisely this topic of collecting secondary raw materials and financing, therefore, or paying people who are therefore selling these secondary raw materials to the companies that buy them out. So income tax is exactly what you said in the last line, and that's what I hope you're all going to accept together and we're going to do better in the future. Every day the work of the tax administration needs and we can improve. In certain steps, we always take a step forward, a step back. Obviously, this law also has the thinking that in certain segments it goes one step back. I highly respect those opinions, and I'm glad we can hear them together here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92414	Nancy Tyrell's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92415	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here you go, Deputy. I don't know. You said you were expecting a more intense debate. We're talking about politicizing unfortunately again in the tax administration, talking the way we talk. What are we supposed to do here to show that? So we're trying to point out things that aren't good for us and that lead to bad practice, worse than what we have now and not better. When talking about 18 thousand legal entities that meet the conditions and who pay 90% of VAT. I know VAT is the income of the state budget, but what about all those who pay both income tax and profit tax, and what about all those who hire themselves or at least one other employee? That's what I'm trying to put an accent on. We can't single out 18 thousand of all those legal entities and tell us they're business partners because they pay 90% of VAT, and we don't care about everyone else. In pre-departure deals, we made an extremely big mistake precisely with craftsmen who we looked at in one way in pre-departure settlements compared to entrepreneurs who were wherever and where more obliged, instead of letting the little one, in a simple way, reprogramme his debt through pre-fashion deals, continue to work, turn the funds around, ignore them, and make the same mistake again. I agree with you when you say that the directors of large administrations especially here, the director of the tax administration should have the opportunity to speak, but I also demand that the directors of the tax administration when they get a letter with a warning respond to it regardless of who they got it from just to determine the facts they write inside.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92416	Igor Radjenovic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92417	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So when I said expecting a stronger debate, I thought primarily about the number of debates. It is an uncomfortable situation when, as a representative of the proposings in less than a year, you propose the law that this same government has proposed here, and as a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I say I do not feel the most uncomfortable but here I am trying to do the best I can at this point to realize that the non-permanence of tax laws, aware of the absence of tax laws, is one of the more difficult circumstances for the competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia, and that sometimes it is not the best and happiest solution to change them often. But obviously in this original proposal in this part, if we're talking about the structure, we've put on too much work and now we've gone one step below it, some will say a step back, and someone will say that we're going back to the art of being able to leave it to all of you on your conscience to decide when we're going to vote. The assessment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that, at this time, we are changing the structure of the tax administration with all these other very positive effects that I say in the reconstruction of the tax administration itself are trying to correct. After all, the set of yesterday's tax laws in which we mainly got support except for this controversial contribution, about where and how the cost of that law will end, I think it shows that the tax administration as such in the direction of its business and in the direction of its business and in the direction of changing the rules by which it works together and the rules of work progresses at any time, and I say this internal reshuffle obviously we've given ourselves too much work today, so unfortunately today we have to withdraw it but here we are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92418	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a colleague, Mr. Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92419	I thank the esteemed vice president of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed deputy minister, respected director of the tax administration, respected colleagues and colleagues. Introductoryly, the SDP club will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Administration Act. We will support it because we are assessing that it represents changes aimed at making it more efficient and efficient for the tax administration and that it is a harmonisation of the basic law with other laws primarily of the Law on civil servants. In any case, we are of the opinion that we should support as much insistence as possible to say certain legal clarity, or to coordinate and clarify legal texts, in such a way that there is no repetition, regulation of the same matter in several laws, and in particular that there is no discrepancies and the possibility of any different interpretation of regulations that regulate the same matter. Personally, I might say that it seems to me that all civil servants should work and have their jobs and working conditions in the same way, no matter what part of the state administration they work in. For example, because of these harmonisations and deletes the condition of a public tender for appointments by the Director of the Tax Administration, the proposal is therefore prescribed, special conditions are prescribed which must be met by the person who would be appointed in that place, so as to ensure that only persons with a high level of expertise can be appointed to those positions by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It should also be noted that, until now, only those persons could be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so I would say that until now, if you allow me to say, a certain cynicism in those regulations when, in the end, the policy ultimately decides who will be the state official in a particular very important area where the application of certain and tax policies and the implementation of that policy is very important for the application and implementation of the general policy of a particular government. These changes therefore prescribe the establishment of a tax administration in a way that seems, I would say, more efficient, more expedient. This therefore seems to be done by prescribing redefining and changing business processes through which, according to it, flexible automation, co-ordination of officials, information in the system. So now the business of the executions that have so far been carried out by local outposts will be done... to the units of the district offices. We support this solution because we believe that, therefore, it will contribute to greater specialisation, thus increasing efficiency in implementation and enforcement, and thus collect taxes. I think these other proposed changes will go in this direction towards perhaps greater specialization, greater... in a particular area, and thus greater efficiency. When we talk about this greater efficiency, we believe that it will therefore contribute to a more detailed regulation of the verification procedures in order to determine a certain fact that is essential for taxation. We also consider this a... proposal for the tax administration to now conduct the procedure for violations of certain tax regulations and regulations in contributions. We believe that the tax administration is extremely well teamed and expert in the conduct of these procedures and that these procedures will now even be resolved more quickly and efficiently. Also by adapting to real life, the correct response would assess the proposal to allow the granting of a special status to the taxpayer for the purpose of promoting the voluntary fulfilment of tax obligations and the proposal, I would say by means of a legal term, more lively and focused on better and more efficient tax collection, i.e. the very purpose of the tax administration. It may be one of the most important parts of the laws proposed by the amendments. If you let me, then let me look back on this, the claims so far made that this would mean a greater politicisation of the tax administration, so I would disagree. Therefore, the state administration must implement government policy, state administration, and the tax administration must be an instrument in the service of the Government. We clearly have to aim here, so the people who work there have a proper level of expertise, an adequate level of qualifications for... work, we think that these changes do not violate it, we think that in the tax administration, so far the tax administration has proved by their work that they have people who are quite teamed up, who are sufficiently professional and we think that these changes of the law will not violate it. Sometimes it seems to me that certain tendencies are trying to form beside the three of these powers that we have, legislative, executive and judicial, that they are trying to form some kind of official authority that would be completely independent and completely separate in a way that is also judicial. However, I agree that there must be no policy influence on the appointments and promotions of officials, that it must be only about work, but I say, primarily the administration belongs to the executive authority and its task is to implement policies for... the task is not to implement state policy, but therefore only to implement the law, and here we have the implementation of certain policies through certain... regulations and through certain tasks that the executive authority gives by respecting the laws of the administrative bodies that therefore implement it into life. For all of this, the SDP club will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92420	Now we're going to the replicas. Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92421	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Pandek, you spoke of cynicism in regulations. Well, there's a lot of cynicism in this part of the Tax Administration Act, not only in that part, to allow people to work in the same service under the same conditions. You have a situation, so I'm interested in how you're going to comment on this cynicism, an example of Koprivnica-Crysing County. Koprivnica area office, Križevci tax post, Đurđevac post, number means party i.e. user Koprivnica 7500, Križevci 6100, Đurđevac 3700. It's cynicism in the regulation. But what I came forward for, in fact, was that I expected the amendments to this law to be made and resolved in terms of the performance that is being spoken of here, that something would be resolved about this repression against the citizens of Croatia, especially the peasants, people over 65 years old, whose tax administration was ruthlessly sitting on the property and giving them the right to owe most of the pension insurance debt for pensions they never used and never sought. I expected it to be something like that but you gave me an answer because you said the IRS was an instrument in the hands of government policy. So I'm asking you now, is this repression that's about to be done, too, is it practically talking about how it's going to get stronger, is it this government's policy that in such a repressive way, it's doing the kidnapping of property to Croatian peasants over 65 years old?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92422	Drazen Pandek, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92423	Thank you. Courts are carried out, therefore, always after a certain exercise can always be addressed to the judicial authority to verify whether it was all right or illegal. So I absolutely do not believe that a person can, without a legal basis, carry out an exercise or if it is carried out, there is always a certain legal means to correct it. There is an institute of free legal aid, we had here a law in the Parliament that allows people who have neither the means nor the knowledge to defend themselves to exercise their rights protected by law. As far as these implementing rules are concerned, I apologize really as an agent, I don't have enough detailed information on the problems in that area of yours, so I suggest you ask the agent's question to the competent services to answer that question, I think it's sublegal regulations if I'm not wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92424	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92425	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Pandek, you said something that probably offended all the civil servants and tenants. What kind of official authority, you're saying that the professional administration gives this official authority. No, professional administration practically lays the groundwork for the practical functioning of the state, but you can't do it with a political law like this where political appointments are mentioned. So, people, you're from Zagreb, look at the case in Zagreb, people who don't meet the conditions are now deleted by this law because they don't satisfy to mention the existing situation. And you say it's the appointment of official authority. But I'm telling you, this state is not going to be well until the policy moves away from the IRS, and we can now say whatever we want. And this country must pass a final bill on payment classes where those who work can be rewarded and those who do not work will be punished. And what kind of status someone will have in the IRS or elsewhere will depend solely on his work on nothing else. But now with this law, we want to amend political appointments because as soon as you say indefinitely in a narrowly specialised area that the principle of such an institution can come with some unspecified work experience and knowledge, then it is clear why it is done. Because if you want to professionalize management then you know exactly what are the conditions and criteria. And I say there's a World Bank project, don't listen because a colleague couldn't do it when she was a minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92426	Drazen Pandek, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92427	Thank you. You misread my words. So absolutely this case where someone is appointed to a place that doesn't meet the conditions, and I think it's absolutely illegal. There are also regulations in addition to this regulation that were lex specialis there are regulations that regulate and employ civil servants and which conditions must be prescribed for certain areas there are no specific regulations for certain areas of administration but there are clear rules on internal order, there are also a law on civil servants that prevent a person who does not meet the conditions. I mean, here's what's going on right now, and I think that in this bill, there's a strict enough condition to appoint a director and replace the IRS, and I think it's going to make sure that a high-quality person comes to the post of director and deputy tax administration. When I talk about policy implementation we can talk about a policy of non-performing that I don't know that a tax debt goes into oblivion and that no one is responsible for it, we can talk about a zero tolerance policy on corruption and crime on this policy we're talking about implementing that policy, not about a case having to have the advantage to charge or not, then that's the policy's impact. I am speaking in general about political settings in a particular area whose task is to implement the state administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92428	Nancy Tyrelli, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92429	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's a fellow Pandek you mentioned I'm going to refer to this Civil Service Act and why we're changing this law now for compliance. Just tell me, do you know we're changing the Customs Act and the Police Act since we have the same thing? And secondly, you mentioned enforcement and tax collection, or more efficiency, because the IRS has proven its work to implement government policy. So here's a colleague of Hrg's warned of some illogicalities, so efficiency means some percentage of the tax administration's obligations. However, we will all agree that we share a very large classifying and sharing people, and then we are up-to-date and able to collect these claims from the basis of the contributions, but we are not effective in collecting claims related to the tax on luxury cars, yachts, etc. So we have a case that we've been warning about for a long time at the Tax Administration of Rijeka and Mrs. Vishnja Felker, which is a permit for over 200 million kunas to go into obsolescence, and that is exclusively and partly for these things, and that no one has ever answered. This law that we had so far established certain rules a year ago and a few days ago and said that it should be so and that tax workers should be responsible for some things precisely because we say we have a mortgage on certain properties, the Tax Administration has secured itself in some things, not that we train strictness on those young ones, and that we let the big ones go into oblivion because it's all money all of us together and someone because we lose it should.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92430	Drazen Pandek, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92431	Thank you. I have otherwise expressed my own personal position that I believe that all civil servants of the same level of complexity of jobs should work under the same conditions, be employed under the same conditions, have ultimately the same and salary and rewards for their work, so the exact same conditions for all civil servants. That's my personal attitude. If it is necessary to amend certain laws, I would even support the amendments to those laws. As for your remarks that there is an inequality, I can only absolutely condemn all cases of unequal conduct. I absolutely support all efforts both of you and anyone else and I'm willing to join if such cases exist that we are trying to act, whether we... but then also pressure on the bodies that should carry it out. There's the one I'm telling policy enforcement. Such matters should be governed by a policy of equal treatment, that is, what must be implemented in this case by the Tax Administration. Here's to not look back at what I've said before, and I think once again, I absolutely support that such cases should not happen and I offer even my cooperation if I have to make mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92432	And colleague Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92433	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Pandek, you've actually spoken here not only your personal position but you've spoken on behalf of the SDP club and it seems to me that there's either a misunderstanding or a completely different interpretation, which means that the state administration has to implement the government's policy. If this is the case, and I think it's very precise here, and from all of these previous debaters, it's actually taking down provisions on the terms and conditions of the appointments to certain places, to remove this need for security checks for these places, and then we come to what you said, that it's done to make it effective. It is not this part of the government's responsibility to be politically-like or dependent, which is done this way, but to implement existing laws, and to implement government policy means to determine laws or improve laws that would be passed to improve the overall situation. However, this attitude of yours actually shows what happened from the very beginning when those previous solutions for the functioning of the state administration were abolished, when we had the Secretary of State, the heads of directors of the administrations of those who were appointed or elected on the basis of public tenders. It's all been abolished since this coalition came to power and we actually have what we have, the politicization of the state administration that it is in office, that the laws are implemented in the way that corresponds to the ruling majority, and not that the laws that apply equally to all of us. And it's one big misunderstanding, as already said, it's a step I don't know how many years back.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92434	Drazen Pandek, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92435	Thank you. I don't think the ruling majority need to implement the laws as it believes, although most of them may, in fact, change the law that there's no need for some kind of implementation... can improve it in that direction. And I say again, this misunderstanding about policy implementation, so policy when we talk about policy implementation, so it can be a policy of equal treatment, an up-to-date and effective collection of tax debt, a zero-tolerance policy for corruption in the IRS. It's this policy implementation. And so finally, what we all aim at, is to carry out the collection of all tax debts within a period of no benefit to these or those. I think we're clear here. We believe that with these changes, it will not be taken to heart. In addition to these changes that you have been instructed, as I have said, there are changes in the structure and way of handling the Tax Administration that we believe will go towards a more efficient and better work of the Tax Administration. Because in principle, for all of us, especially the ruling majority, it is in the interest that the IRS works because if the IRS doesn't work, it will primarily reflect negatively on that ruling majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92436	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92437	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, the director of the IRS and his colleague is missing. This legislative proposal on amendments to the Tax Administration Act is actually a step back from what we had and voted about a year ago. This is an attempt until there is a vote of political tutorship and terror over the IRS. Hard words, but I'll explain why. My colleague Pandek is talking about zero tolerance for crime and corruption. And there are no pages marked on the page, but the fifth one of these legal proposals says so. Since the obligation to seek data from relevant services to assess the existence of safety barriers to service work is therefore unnecessary in the Tax Administration, it is therefore unnecessary because it significantly extends the process of reception in the service. So the security check extends the admission procedure to the IRS, so it's unnecessary. So security check is unnecessary. That's the only thing that's going to deny what you're saying. Therefore, it is proposed to delete that provision, so it does not require a security check because it greatly extends the process of admission to the IRS service. Second. Tax administration officials should not display their property card, because they are civil servants, not state employees. That's the second provision. So there's no need for tax officials to show their property card to anyone. Free legal assistance to tax administration officials is also written on who will, how and when have the right and who will be a representative of the IRS. That's number three. And at the end of the fourth thing I noticed here in this material in the opening part says. In view of the continued specialisation of business processes and the merger of the so far established units, a provision that prescribed the possibility of periodic or seasonal let me say changes in the place of work has been unnecessarily demonstrated. So, exactly what counterpart Linic was saying when these two, three striking tourist months in the Republic of Croatia, that the Tax Administration, therefore, is overly engaged in that part of the Republic of Croatia with tax taxes, inspections, etc. No, that's no longer necessary. Under this law there is no longer any right to change anyone seasonally or periodically, so the place of business in the Republic of Croatia. Why I say it's tutoring, political tutoring. Well, because it wants to cement the existing human condition. It's clear before the parliamentary elections will take place in a year. Why? Maybe less, yeah. Why is this terror political? So because the Tax Administration, through its inspection, tax inspections, can benefit certain stakeholders from repressive measures. That's her say discreetly and rightly. And behind each interest group there is also a political background, and then it will be so and it can be and we heard from colleagues from the labor cadium suing her, cadiya sues you. When we talk about the antinomy mentioned on the first page of this text, and it concerns the harmonisation of the Law on civil servants with the Tax Administration Act, we don't need two laws, but here's the Law on civil servants, so let's just apply it, and that's what Mr. Deputy Minister is calling for. Then there is much more antinomy in the work of the Tax Administration than in this section that speaks of the compliance of the Staff, etc. and the rights of tax officials, duties, etc. So here's an example of maybe the antinomy here, which is actually an unequal tax practice in some cases, for example. In Brod-Posavia County, car tax, an example of the salary of the person, so for the whole year if he owned the car by 31 March of that year. He pays taxes for the whole year. Although he sold the car to someone else on April 1st and transferred it to someone on April 2nd, the new buyer would not pay for those 9 months' tax, but all who owned it until March 31st. Unlike the Tax Administration of Brod-Posavina in Osijek, it is quite different, so they estimate the number of days someone owns, has it on their own name, and the rest of the days in another name and distribute the tax justly according to the number of days the car owner enjoyed. How this antinomy cannot be corrected in any way, and I have already listed here, Mr. Shuvag, as his last name, on this case. The Tax Administration of Zadar has issued solutions to 11000 illegal houses for 20 years on the island of Vir, houses that do not exist, but that tax is paid neatly. He tells me the answer I put in writing by the Minister, or the IRS, that it's a matter of the Veer municipality. So it's not the municipality of Vir Tax Administration, it's not the municipality of the Source of Tax, it's the Tax Administration. I get a solution from the IRS, and houses are illegal. All 11,000 houses are illegal. And since the nonexistent, uninformed, nowhere introduced house, the tax is paid. And when I tried to say here at the Parliament's pay phone that that same tax was included in that fine, so the people who paid an orderly tax included in the tax fine that follows for the illegal house, and now for legalization he says he can't. This year and I personally received a tax cut for the holiday house on the island of Vir in the 6th month for the year that didn't even expire, half the year. Well, counting on the year not running out I paid myself at the 9th month of tax, but 10 days ago I received a notice and a commission on 66 kuna of tight interest. And the year hasn't passed. Come explain it to me, sir... Such things that happen and antiquities as they like to say foreign words here are very dear to us especially in this government, how can this happen? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A citizen of this town writes to me that he had to pay a real estate tax, on a bought apartment even though his wife is on the apartment, so he owns that apartment, it's her first real estate. But as a husband, he used the right to tax exemption because he had real estate. But now they're married and now they're not. It is true that according to tax laws he must pay the tax, but how is it possible that his friends in the same building were some tax-free? Is that tax administration discretion? I can name you names and names if you want to and deliver. So one, I'm not going to say unfair, but one system that doesn't have something I don't know what to say. So the man is bitter that he had to pay taxes and someone else doesn't have to pay, and they're in the same tax situation. So it's an antinomy, it's an unequal practice so you can say without this word antinomy that we know well what it means, who learned Latin well knows and Greek so it can be said. These are the antiquities I'm talking about and I'm repeating here, and I don't know how many times in these parliamentary mandates. What else about what Mrs. Tyrelli said and listed at the firm that they were kind of harassed, a bad procedure would be said in French by the IRS and to please someone else? About the discretionary rights that existed earlier during the time that Shuker was, Mr. Shuker Minister, there was a situation where some of the party's powers happened that some tax returns went out of date because they were put in a drawer and went out of date. Today, in another way, he's trying to do the same thing. the discretionary right to achieve other methods. And he says here, as he says in this text, there's a partnership between the IRS and I don't know who. I don't think that's what you should call it. Tax bonds are all, tax obligations exist and are clearly defined by law. No partnership can be between the taxpayer and the IRS but it should not be an enemy attitude. And we know what kind of situation our craftsmen are in, and we know that sometimes we need to wait or wait, or the obligation to pay taxes both in wars and in order to settle tax obligations so that the state budget can also be settled through our own, and that the main source of the funds is, therefore, full and better than it is now filled where we have the deficit in fact of the state budget, and also the deficit on the income side, and above all, on the side of the charge of the budget on the name of the tax. Although VAT increased from 23% to 25%. In view of all the comments I made even though we did, I expected this law to produce something else, because yesterday we were very constructive and opposition and position discussing a set of tax laws. I've also seen a whisper almost a joke to share so that we can fix things together. We gave and offered solutions and opinions. No one was malicious but here today we already have a upside-down board and skin upside down where it's actually trying this way I'm not going to say "hidden" but when this new Tax Administration Act or amendments and additions are being studied, and as we can see, here's the SDP club he's already said without a lot of explanations, I think the arguments, that he's for. And now we see why for. The HDSSB Club will not support this legislative proposal for all of these reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92438	Thank you. Drazen Pandek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92439	Thank you. Dear colleague, I would therefore refer to your point of view of security checks. Therefore, this law provides for a security check for the Director and Deputy Director of the Tax Administration and, on their request, any official of the Tax Administration may also be referred to a security check. This is essentially more than is true for the vast majority of other civil servants. And, of course, when receiving each official must therefore have that famous conviction of impunity, therefore certain checks are still being carried out. As regards your observations regarding the law which regulates therefore taxation for road owners, therefore, it should be known that the ICJ itself only provides data to the tax administration on 31.3. and, of course, the tax administration will not, there is no record of monthly changes but therefore, after the delivery of these data for that annual tax accounts. If so, after 1.4, it is clear that, then, that the tax administration does not have that data, but always a certain citizen party can reach the tax administration as much as I am informed and regulated there and therefore resolve the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92440	Boro Grubisic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92441	Thank you very much. Comrade Pandek, tell me now can your former member Bandic compete for the head of the tax administration in the Republic of Croatia? It can, however, and mainly because no security clearance is required, it can also be for the president of the country. So, don't be demagogue, come on maybe a word, but don't say what's not nice when it says here in your legal proposal that no security clearance is required. So what I'm going to do, I didn't write it, you wrote it, not you personally, but your party and what we're talking about. And secondly, as far as taxes on cars are concerned, the MUP has every monthly and daily control of car sales and traffic. I was in the IRS and asked why I who sold the car 15 April, bought cars in February and managed to give it to my old car a month and a half later, I have to pay both taxes for the new and the old? He says that's how it's set 31.3. So who's got anyone who doesn't? They still don't care. But it's no concern for the citizens, why would you pay 500 kuna for the old and 700 kuna for the new car tax, if someone else on April 2nd bought my old cars and he was driving those eight, nine months without taxes. Is it injustice or do we have a new justice perhaps yours? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92442	Comrade Boro, there is a difference between a security check and a certificate of impunity that must be made by those employed in state services. And Branko the Hill of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92443	Thank you very much. Well, you said this bill was a step back. So I'm not sure if we go back a little bit to the presentation of fellow Pandek on behalf of the SDP club just now and if we realize that the tax administration is a policy instrument of the Government it is this bill step forward because it will allow even more repression and even a stronger blow to the citizens and everyone else in Croatia. I look at it that way, unfortunately, although we should loosen up a little bit and we should reduce a little repression to give people the opportunity to live because this is how they live in Croatia from entrepreneurs, craftsmen to ordinary citizens not to talk about peasants very hard to live for. But I want to ask you one question, I don't know if you've listed some tax administrations where you can and what you're doing is something like I just said before, like I did in the Križevci, this one repression and the introduction of debt rights for pensioners over 65 years old, whether it's happening in Slavonia, whether it's happening in your tax administrations, here's exactly what I'd be interested in, because it's very difficult to get any data from tax administrations and any answers. It's all wrapped up in a veil of secrets, nothing can be won, no answer. The mayor can't get answers to some question, some kind of weird way of working, something strange is going on that we're not talking about, and that's what you're saying is that this is a political humane identification, that it's probably also politically determining the status of individual tax administrations. Where the political option is suitable there can be a higher rank, where there is no lower rank.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92444	Boro Grubisic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92445	You see, colleague Hrg, there is a newspaper tycoon, once was, which has a huge tax debt to the state of Croatia. At the stage of the tax administration's shame, he's just called no name for that gentleman. Although the comrade says hundreds of millions of kunas to the tax administration. Make a deal. Is that the partner? Is that the partner's relationship? We couldn't before, it was a law that once Mr. Schucker delivered to me as Minister of Finance that he couldn't because it was a secret, tax secret, and that's what it was called, and by that law I couldn't get the information as much as that newspaper mogul owes to the state of Croatia. Then it was a tax secret, now it's no longer a tax secret we downloaded that article, but still the gentleman is not at the rate of tax shame even though he may owe it, so I won't say the most, but among the top ten in the country, he handed the debt to someone else. But good. Therefore, and the peasants, and you know it yourself, were in Slavonia all together, and how they are, how they react to their mechanization, not to speak even of the estates, and the house in which the living came mortgages, executions, and everything else. Unfortunately, as the state treats Slavonia, I'm afraid someone's gonna dry their hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92446	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill when the conditions are met. My colleagues and colleagues agree for next week, we will continue the session on Tuesday 25 November at 9.30 p.m. we will hold a vote on the debated points, i.e. on the rebalancing of the state budget, and we will complete the agenda among other things and with the 2015 budget, so I would ask the committee presidents to call the meetings. And after the vote, we will continue to discuss the final proposal of the Law on the Regional Development of the Republic of Croatia. And then on Tuesday and Wednesday we will discuss this set of laws on the mountainous and mountainous area, areas of special state care, the financing of units of local and regional regional self-government and the Law on the municipal economy. And on Thursday, we'd discuss the budget. Thank you very much. Goodbye. Get some rest, it's gonna be a pain in the ass.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92447	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Administration Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 744. The debate on the final text of the law is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like a representative of Deputy Finance Minister-designate Igor Radinovic's proposal to be made manifest. Amendment No. 1 in Article 3, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92448	Amendment 1 to Article 3 is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92449	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 2 in Article 7 of the same Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92450	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92451	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 3 to Article 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92452	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92453	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 4 in Article 32.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92454	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92455	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No. 5 per Article 33.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92456	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92457	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. So you've all accepted the amendments?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92458	Any amendments to the Legislative Committee. Thank you for accepting all the laws in the package... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-11-21-0.u92459	I'm closing the hearing, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. Please vote on the final bill. The adoption of this law requires a majority of the votes of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament, in accordance with Article 252. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The vote is over. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes are 81 votes for, no abstentions and 35 votes against the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Tax Administration Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted. The Mandate-Immunity Commission report. I ask the Honorable President of the Manadto-Immunity Commission, the Honorable Gordan Sobol, to submit a report to the commission.
