ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70883	Good morning, dear colleagues. We're going back to work. We will discuss - A report by the representatives of the Republic of Croatia before the European Court of Human Rights for 2012 The Reporter is a representative of the Republic of Croatia before the European Court of Human Rights. You've received the material. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the motionary like to give an additional explanation? No, I don't. Intro. I'm opening a debate. They signed up for the club, intro. Here you are, Your Honor, Deputy Representative of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70884	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm sorry about this little one. I thought I should explain to the committees, not present the report. I would today if you would allow me to present a 2012 report on the work of the Office of Representatives of the Republic of Croatia before the European Court of Justice. This is the first time since the draft office that the state representative submits reports to the Croatian Parliament, and we believe that this points to the importance that our Croatian legislator attaches to the topic of protection of human rights. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Court of Human Rights is an international court which may be addressed by individuals or groups if they consider that they have been violated by certain human rights or fundamental freedoms prescribed by the European Convention and those infringements are not removed from one or more branches of government in the country itself and to the highest levels. Representatives, the attorney-general of the state's attorney-general, more precisely, in all cases in which individuals are more specifically requested to be formally referred to as the court's applications. In the following text, I will talk about prosecutors and lawsuits because I think it is more acceptable or easier to understand for the public. In addition to representation operations, it is also a national coordinator for the execution of European Court judgments and decisions of the European Court of Justice, which means that there are also tasks in the office to coordinate the implementation of the European Court of Justice judgments. The same representative represents the measures taken by the state in carrying out the verdicts and decisions before the Committee of Ministers overseeing the process of enforcement of the verdict. The office also performs the tasks of continuing monitoring the development of the legal standards and case-law of the court, harmonising domestic laws with those standards and translation from English into the Croatian language of all judgments and decisions made by the court in Croatia in relation to Croatia and publishing these judgments and decisions on the Court's website. Also, the last but not least important part of the job is to get to know the domestic bodies by convention law. Organisational we're a small office, we're the government's professional service with three suits. In 2012, only 7 employees were employed in the office, 6 lawyers and 1 administrative employee of 12 scheduled systematization. The office is located in two locations in two smaller apartments, in Dalmatia and in Frankopanska, Zagreb. During 2012, over 3300 different acts of domestic bodies, different branches of government, were created or analysed in the office, most of the acts analysed on a daily basis, are all domestic bodies' files of all levels of all courts, in order to establish all relevant facts for State representation in the case before the European Court of Justice. The second part of the act that the office creates as a state's attorney is the state's obviouss in every case before the court. These are so-called legal studies explaining that the Croatian authorities have applied convention law in a particular case. Therefore, the European Court of Justice shall, on behalf of the State, explain the conduct and decision of domestic bodies in light of the applicable Convention law. In the event that we are talking about the financial side from the budget of the Office of Representatives, all fees shall be paid to applicants or prosecutors under European Court of Human Rights rulings. If we look at representation matters, we can say that the main task of a representative is to represent all three branches of government before the European Court of Justice and, of course, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, which is also called the fourth branch, which is also an instance that decides in a large number of cases on a particular issue before the issue comes before the European Court of Human Rights. In fact, the representative is a mediator between the state and the court and only when the case comes before the European Court of Justice shall the Office of Representatives enter into proceedings. Until that time, the office is neither involved nor has any knowledge of the actions brought before the court. When an action for alleged violations of the Convention comes before the European Court of Justice, the Office of Representatives has been called upon to respond to the allegations of the Prosecutor and all communication between the representatives and the court takes place in English, one of the served languages of the Court. The procedure is further such that the case comes to Strasbourg only when all the competent Croatian authorities have considered the problem that is then in front of the European Court and have already decided on it. It should be pointed out that the European Court is only examining cases after prosecutors have exhausted all legal resources in Croatia. In principle, this means they have exhausted all possibilities of judicial protection in Croatia. If, therefore, a person considers that, after the last decision or decision in Croatia, he is injured by certain human rights or freedoms, then he addresses the European Court of Justice. The Court of Justice shall carry out a contradictory procedure which shall end any decision on the inadmissibility of the case by a verdict. There's a possibility of making a deal, so-called A friendly solution, a dispute between the prosecutor and the state. In each case against the state, representation matters shall include a request for evidence from the domestic authorities involved in the problem which is now in the court's hands. Therefore, the office depends largely on the cooperation and indications of the bodies involved in the procedures in Croatia or in any way on the issue which is now in front of the European Court of Justice. The Office shall, on the basis of the information and files obtained by the domestic authorities, prepare legal studies, respond to complaints and any submissions during the course of the proceedings before the court and shall represent the State at the oral hearings of the court which are not frequent, which shall take place only in the most difficult cases. The co-operation of domestic bodies with the office is therefore necessary in the preparation of the case, representation and needs to be further developed. During the proceedings, the Office also informs the Court of Justice of domestic law and its interpretation through the case-law of the highest Croatian courts, notably the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the practice of our courts and the harmonisation with the case-law of the European Court of Justice is mutually harmonised and is of particular importance for the success of the proceedings before the Court. Knowledge of the case-law of the European Court of Justice and of the foreign bodies, particularly the highest courts, is the main condition for reducing Croatian cases before the European Court of Human Rights. In 2012 the number of cases against Croatia increased rapidly in front of the court by 45% compared to 2011. Just a few days ago, we received data for 2013, so compared to 2012, we are recording a new 78% increase, and among them the highest number of most difficult cases that have increased by 49%, but we will inform you about this over the next months in the next report. Therefore, with the number of cases already in 2012, the complexity of the business has increased rapidly, leading to additional burden on the office, but also the European Court of Justice. It can therefore be said that it is not only the European Court of Justice that is the victim of its success because it records a steady increase in the case, but it is in some way an office that is increasingly burdened by such a situation. Expressed sub-optimation has been fully expressed due to also a years-long ban on employment in the state service, and the lack of... to the quality of defence of the state could not be eliminated. Looking at the structure of the case before the European Court of Justice, it is evident that the largest number of cases concerned state representation in procedures relating to various aspects of the right to a fair trial, especially in the criminal sphere, infringements of the right to life because of inefficient investigations of criminal offences, violations of the right to peaceful enjoyment of ownership, where the most complex items such as the subject of the Zagreb Bank, the case of Ališić, which concerns the old foreign currency unsaved savings in the Ljubljanska Banka. The rulings of the Court in 2012 compared to the Republic of Croatia were, therefore, 60 decisions all together. Of this, the court ruled in 23 cases, in as many as 5 verdicts, that the Croatian authorities did not violate their convention rights, while in 15 cases, the court decided that the charges brought were not allowed in accordance with the convention. The Court also made 20 decisions on a friendly solution to the dispute and 7 decisions to delete the case from the court's case list. At the same time, the court also communicated 3 temporary measures to Croatia, but after... the office's obviouss, none of the temporary measures were given to Croatia. I must say that after nearly 17 years of being a party before the European Court of Justice, not a single European Court has said a provisional measure of the Republic of Croatia, although we have had several times a communicative interim measure. The judgments brought by the court in 2012 applied to the most of the problems mentioned above. In addition, part of the judgment also referred to a violation of the right to personal freedom and security, Article 5. The Convention, mostly in detention cases, due to excessive length of detention, insufficient grounds for detention and how to decide to extend detention. That way, I'd round up some of the office's work on representation matters. The second part of the Colloquial term "Employment Jobs", which is in fact business of coordinating the execution of judgments and decisions of the European Court of Justice, is business, therefore, relating to the direct execution of Article 46. The Convention, i.e. that the State should implement any judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, because it is an obligation that arises directly from the Convention. In other words, when we translate it into daily language, once the European Court of Justice's ruling is final, which is 3 months after the court takes it, the process of execution begins. It has the role of the Croatian competent authorities and the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers to monitor the execution of each court ruling continuously. While the representative is a mediator in this communication, the more accurate office is a co-ordinator and a representative of the measures to the Committee of Ministers. Only when the Committee of Ministers is convinced that the state has taken all necessary measures to execute a single verdict or group of verdicts identifying the same problem is it adopts a resolution closing the enforcement procedure. Depending therefore on the nature of the injury established by the court in a particular case, the competent authorities should take measures to remove the injury to the person who received the dispute. However, if the problem in the verdict is identified as a problem of systemic nature, the state should take measures to resolve it systematically. The most frequent infringements established by the judgments are resolved by amending the rules and by amending judicial and administrative practices or practices of the conduct of other bodies. It is the office's duty, or representative, to introduce our bodies to the findings of the court's verdicts, to coordinate the process of execution. We can't execute the verdict. Only those bodies which, under their jurisdiction, may propose regulations, adopt regulations or may modify their ways of doing so may do so. In 2012, it became the final 10 judgments of the court. At the end of the year, Croatia had 122 verdicts and court decisions in the process. During that year, we closed the execution of 19 European Court rulings, which means in other words, so that a final resolution was adopted in these cases. And in the segment of coordination of enforcement, there was therefore an increase in the office's affairs due to the change, i.e. the application of the new rules of the Committee of Ministers which required a more proactive role of the state in the execution of judgments. Due to the new judgments to be carried out, and the fact that the office was allowed to employ the first employee for the execution jobs only at the end of 2011. So in 2012, we finally had the first person in the office who could do those jobs eight hours a day. He also marked the increase of the so-called year. old execution objects. These are those verdicts that became final before 2007, and we have not yet implemented them. They are not primarily carried out because of the complexity of the substance itself established by the verdict, as enforcement requires the taking of extensive measures in several different areas or greater separations from the state budget. Just looking at the structure of the judgments established, the violations in judgments are seen to be spreading to new areas of human rights violations. Less and less injuries relate to individual errors in conduct, and an increasing number points to a systematic non-application of the Convention. That is why old cases are still in place, because the problem we seem to have solved appears in new cases before the European Court of Justice. In order to encourage communication that is necessary and the arrangements of all branches of the authorities in the implementation of the judgments by the regulation, the Office Regulation established a Council for the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Justice. An inter-institutional body consisting of representatives of the executive and judicial authority, representatives of the DORH and the Constitutional Court. The Council shall make it possible to communicate rapidly between representatives of various authorities and their direct agreement on how to implement the judgments, thereby contributing to faster enforcement of old and complex judgments. The first results of the work of the Council are visible in 2013. The third and not least important part of the Office's work is in fact the dissemination of knowledge about the Conventional Law and the work of harmonising domestic laws with convention law. That part of the job entered the Regulation that was adopted in the 2012 office. This part of the Office's activities is aimed at spreading knowledge of the Conventional standards and practices of the Court of Human Rights. Therefore, the expansion of knowledge about the Convention, which is an integral part of the Croatian legal order and by law is above Croatian laws and below the Constitution. For this purpose in 2012, we had, I must say, in this short existence in 2012 we had only one employee who worked on these jobs and during a very short period of 2012. Therefore, that part of the business, even though it was given to the Office's jurisdiction, was not followed by a person who could do so. In spite of this, in 2012, we established the website of the Office on which is the searcher of all existing judgments and decisions of the Court in relation to Croatia and all those translated into Croatian so that they can be easily understood and made available to all, both to the professional public, our judges, our state lawyers, lawyers, and also to the general public, and all for the purpose of making the convention law as applicable in Croatia. The Office also translated some of the most important rulings against other countries during that period, co-operated with the Secretariat of the European Court of Justice in order to make these translations available in Croatian in the main electronic search of the practice of the European Court of Justice, namely the European Court's own search engine. All the above is done despite the fact that on these jobs most of the year no one was employed. I would now conclude that if you allow me your explanation, I think it is a clear conclusion that the number of cases against Croatia is constantly growing in front of the European Court of Justice, that the scope and complexity of the Office's affairs is increasing, and that we think it is necessary to enable the Office to develop both personnel, spatial and technical in order to be able to carry out the tasks that we are given in jurisdiction in the best possible way. In order to further develop the cooperation of the Office and of all bodies represented by the Court, and with which we co-ordinate the procedures for the execution of judgments and decisions of the Court, we have noticed that it would be much more effective if it were regulated by law. In particular, it concerns cooperation with bodies outside the executive authority, because we are part of the Executive Authority. However, we do not have a real impact on the bodies of other branches of government. Therefore, the regulation cannot even prescribe obligations to other authorities outside the executive authority. While effective co-operation with all authorities is necessary for quality state representation and enforcement of judgments. The law can also regulate the publication of the most important rulings in the National Journal, which Croatia is one of the few countries that does not work precisely because of what must be regulated legally. Thirdly, but not less importantly, we believe that better personnel teaming, and the appropriate organisational and technical conditions would allow the Office to strengthen activities at faster introduction of the Croatian legal system to convention law. In this way, the Office may, by means of knowledge and experience which it has no doubt on the Conventional Law, because it is solely for the purpose of meeting other bodies and thus indirectly affecting the reduction of lawsuits against the State before the Court of Justice. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70885	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first person to answer for the club of addicts is Damir Cain. He's gone. His club is losing the right to discuss this agenda item. On behalf of the SDP Club, the respected Josip Kregar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70886	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I will repeat something already said and that is that this is the first time that a report of this truth has been discussed before the Parliament by this institution that has become self-sufficient and has gained importance. That is why it will also seem to me in the debate that this is one of those things that is never sufficiently explained and explained what the tasks are and what the competences of this body are. First of all, it should be noted that this is not an independent body dealing with the protection of human rights. This is not about one additional occupier or attorney attorney and the like, this is about an office representing the interests of the Republic of Croatia which is independent but connected to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The importance of this report is so much greater because the government's report confirms not only that the Parliament has the right but also has the obligation to discuss such reports, to worry about the work of such offices but more importantly about the state of human rights in the Republic of Croatia. Because this report points to a very precise state of human rights that we don't find in any other reports. First of all, the representative pointed out by explaining this and organising the office's task that the most significant feature of the general feature of the office's activities, a large number, a large increase in the number of cases the office handles, deals with. The item number belt see the table or chart on page 33 has an exponential appearance. So the increase, especially in the last two years, is 40 and we heard now and 70% compared to the previous period. If we take some basic years in 2010 when the number of these items was slightly smaller then we will see that it is something that is no longer to be reacted to. The increase in the number of cases, however, is not an increase in the work or activity of the Government or of this office. It is the result of the objective real circumstances of this society. Croatia is not a society in which honesty, in which there is an experience or impression, faith in an impartial and capable professional judiciary. Therefore, the burden on the number of cases in the Strasbourg court is the result of a reflection of such a reality. A high degree of ignorance should be added here. It is worrying to read in the media or to see, to hear about anyone who feels denied by injustice and invited to press charges before that court. It is unfortunately not so, it is not a court, one additional court, one court case against the courts of the Republic of Croatia. This is a special court, and also because its decisions are somewhat limited to the sovereignty of the States, the truth does not replace decisions of the States or courts, but it certainly imposes an obligation to apply their practice. One thing that is right in the eyes is the fact that it is not enough in these 17 years, that it is not done enough to change it and that the ignorance of people in this regard creates high expectations both from the court and from the office of representation before the court and therefore the court is in a position not to meet these expectations. If we look at the same work of the court, we will notice that the court is now trying everything to prevent a real flood, a real tide of cases that come especially from new democracies. It is a court that is engulfed in fact by all those problems of legal nature that maintain the instability of countries that are just struggling with the development and establishment of the rule of law. What I would like to point out is the fact that such a trend represents a quite objective materially measurable result of the difficulties that the Republic of Croatia has. It is not only 325 thousand 950 euros paid by Croatia in compensation for damages, but it is about the fact that all the very complicated mechanism and the set of mechanisms for the execution of such judgments should be tied up. In many cases it far exceeds these amounts, it is not about compensation for damages but about the fact that the Republic of Croatia has failed to provide its citizens with, guaranteeing human rights and that it then feels like some expenditure that was not needed. I'll point out just a few more facts. First of all, a report like this should be rounded up, standardised and done. We had a debate on the Committee on Justice on 13th 10th, which had many concrete remarks or proposals in this direction. For this reason, it seems to me that the Parliament's task is to pay particular attention to what is required, we are a legislative body, in changes to the legal solutions that have been challenged before the Court of Human Rights. It is not only that we will reduce the damage to the verdicts, but that will increase legal security and protection of human rights in the Republic of Croatia. Second, at times reading, as well as exposure, there was the impression that there was also a certain situation where very little can be done because of the lack of money, the lack of personnel who could do the job in a quality and adequate manner. However, something has already been made to increase the number of people and to ensure better conditions. What we need, however, is greater mobilization of the office itself, especially those things that are not routine in nature, which are not the reporting of the court, which are not written, but is that the task of this court is to pay greater attention to the fact that people do not understand, and even professionals do not understand legally what these proceedings are about. As a result, I hope that the number of those lawyers who refer to their parties will drop to complain until the end of the Strasbourg court, although there is no real reason or basis for this. The third thing is a kind of commendation to all those institutions and bodies that cared about the execution of the judgments of the Strasbourg court. It is that we have found ourselves faced with some very important and significant and, let's say, serious judgments,... have led to really rapid and important changes in our legislation of adequate response to certain ministries, and I hope that such practice will continue to understand the need to apply the practice of the Court of Human Rights. What I particularly want to point out is the fact that the decision that will largely be welcomed by citizens and the Republic of Croatia is being prepared and decided, and this is a dispute against the Ljubljana Bank, which is now in the appeal process and which will, in all likelihood, end as it has ended and in the previous decision in favour of the savings of the Ljubljanska banka, which is a great burden for the Slovenian state, but a great relief for the savings whose right is unjustly denied. Let me finally say that this report should be supported, the work of the office helped and referred it to better cooperation especially with other government bodies, ministries and the fact that in the Assembly I can always count with understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70887	Thank you. On behalf of the club Jadranka Kosor and HGS will speak to the respected representative Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70888	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. And here's an example of how hard jobs like this are mostly done by women, a little dyspression at the beginning. I warmly welcome you colleagues and colleagues. So today, I will talk about this report, talk and debate fundamentally on human rights, the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, of course, and the rights of minorities. Never much about it, never too much, and among others, the increase in the subject matter that Mrs. Internect spoke about earlier, so 40, so if I understood 78% well in 2013, it means 78% in 2013 it is probably also a consequence and the fact that we have become a member of the EU, and then citizens have more information and some kind of greater trust, but it also shows when you look at the items that are spoken of in the report, there is also talk about the ups and downs of many Croatian institutions, but also certain absurds. I agree with the predecessor, with a respected colleague, Kregar, who said in the end that we should not only support the report but we should do everything to strengthen the work capacity of the office because the report speaks very clearly of the fact that sometimes it seems and under impossible conditions the office has done a great and difficult job. Of course, we have heard from the representative, or representative of the office, that it has contributed to this and the fact that in 2009, we have made a decision to ban additional employment in the state administration that has been in place so far, but I think that the Parliament could, in some way, reach out to some of its conclusions and, after this debate, support efforts to further employ a number of experts because obviously, the work will be extremely high. So if we look at only these items from last year and probably from this and next, then the capacity of the office as we have today will be insufficient. However, what I would like to point out among other things is that all the elements of the Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, so on the basis of which Croatian citizens address the European Court of Human Rights, are the foundations of the Croatian Constitution. Thus, the highest values of the Croatian Constitution and this shows that all those who in certain procedures had to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia consistently and of course the laws that did not come out of it. That's what I mean by the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, among other things. What is particularly interesting about this report and the still unresolved problems that we have regarding the Ljubljanska Banka is also part of the report that says that the Court has reached its first ruling on the problem of old foreign exchange savings and that the court has found that the Republic of Slovenia has violated the right to enjoy property peacefully and that is something that will certainly have consequences in the future. Let us look at what they are, or what the judgments in which human rights violations have been found by the authorities of the Republic of Croatia. These are certainly inefficient investigations. This includes cases related to patients, rapes. So how is it possible to conduct an inefficient investigation in the Republic of Croatia related, for example, to such a difficult and terrible act as rape. Then a fair trial, meaning five convictions, was brought by the court to determine that the applicants were injured by the right to a fair trial, the right to a home, the conditions of stay in prison. This is something that probably all of you colleagues and colleagues face regularly, so letters from the prison system are probably coming to you where some warnings are being given. So, people who are convicted and who serve time for crimes. The length of the procedure. The length of proceedings is also one of the important reasons why the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are turning towards Strasbourg. I find the unusually interesting example listed here in the report. Thus, a long - term trial in a matrimonial case that puts the applicant at risk and the right to marriage. How? So, the divorce case lasts for seven years, and in the meantime, the person intended to get into another marriage, but it certainly failed. So that's something like this at the level I'd almost say bizarreness, but it certainly warns about practice and what we meet every day. Decisions concerning the inadmissibility of the application are also cited. It's something that should actually be educational. The causes of the breach of the Convention have been recognized and here, one part of this report is very well, which says, "The choice of measures to execute each verdict is generally in the state." The national authorities shall, on the basis of the conclusions of the European Court of Justice, identify the causes of the infringements of the Convention and identify and implement the measures appropriate for their removal. The question to all of us is whether we identify these causes and whether we make decisions on the right measures. This should be the result of the Report, our discussions and our decisions in the Croatian Parliament. And I will repeat something that I have been saying about several reports submitted by certain institutions to the Croatian Parliament. This should be an indication to us when we pass laws on how laws, what to build into laws, what to avoid, and how to amend laws. But it's not always of course practice. It is good to state that the Office is not the authority responsible for the execution because of what exists sometimes I find different views about it. But certainly once again we need to do everything to strengthen the office's capacity and increase. This is particularly about trials within a reasonable time frame. Therefore, several groups of judgments relating to the right to trial within a reasonable period of time and an effective remedy with regard to this matter are being executed, as well as poor conditions in Croatian penitentiary facilities, i.e. prisons. There are 46 Croatian items in the enforcement process that are marked by leading items. Again trial within a reasonable period, ineffectiveness of the investigation, mentioned sentence on prison terms, violation of the rules non-bis and I go etc. etc. In particular, here are discrimination against Roma students in primary school education already known to everyone subject Orshus and others. That part and that segment were also to be discussed when we discussed some other reports. And that part and that aspect and that data we should have included some other reports. Of course, there is no negligible amount of more than 325000 euros paid by the Office during this reporting period. These amounts will grow according to everything, as the report notes that the recent rulings of the European Court of Justice against the Republic of Croatia are increasingly referring to the most difficult acts of human rights violations to which the domestic system in general did not respond the increase in the average amount of compensation has therefore increased logically. The question to all of us is why the home system hasn't fully answered. It's a question of all the questions. Of course, everyone knows of some examples of our fellow citizens who have addressed or addressed the European Court of Human Rights. I'll mention one. This is an example of Mr Krunoslav Olujic's case, which has acted on a number of prominent, most important duties in the Republic of Croatia that have severely violated these very human rights, which in his homeland he experienced both silence and deafness and head-turning. He addressed the European Court of Human Rights and after 10, 12 years he got satisfaction but in the meantime he lost time, best years, part of his reputation because it is inevitable that in such processes, this and satisfaction before the European Court of Human Rights were actually just proof that he was right. But his human rights are permanently damaged and in fact permanently compromised. Therefore, these are examples that we should think more about from real life and more about, publicly speaking of how such processes are often very, very dangerous to democracy and human rights would not repeat. So how is it possible that domestic judicial authorities do not recognise the violation of the human rights that I repeat and return to the beginning of the foundation and the highest values of the Croatian Constitution and that we are all equal before the law and that every form of discrimination is prohibited. Of course we support this report which, with everything else very, very concentratedly, warned about some problems which are not only the problems of the judicial system but are primarily the problems of the Croatian society as a whole where they should certainly be more respected and respected but ultimately, in the beginning, stick to the letters of the Constitution and Croatian laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70889	Thank you. At this exhibition we have a replica of the respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70890	My colleagues rightly wonder how it is possible that our courts often do not recognise human rights. We know what Ms. Internique's representative said, so that court, the European Court of Human Rights, is dealing with those violations that are carried out by all three branches of government in our country and the executive and legislative and judicial and by nature of things, and it is obvious that it is also the case when it deals most with it and works most. Of course, it is not our obligation to pass a whole series of laws, too, we will see there in executions where many of us are missing especially those involved in the conduct of the judgmental authority. However, it encourages us here once again to rightly criticise and allow us to be criticised, but we also criticise other branches of government in principle in inconclusive matters what we are allowed to do because in the end, all of this pays for such errors by the executive authority and ultimately citizens themselves who are not protected and still have to pay for it. The only thing I'd also like to replicate here is that we've been dealing with this case, that the court has been dealing with the non-bis principle and I'm going. No, quite the opposite, and the European Court tells us exactly that Croatia has no exception to the principle of non bis in i go. It is that famous case of Marguš against Croatia where it is just said that Croatia will have to relativise it in an adequate way to allow such persons, as it were, to be talked about war crimes here. So, that famous op, the law of forgiveness and so on. so that we, as legislators, will also have a lot of work to do so that these things will not happen in order to make these cases as little as possible before the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70891	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70892	Thank you very much. So of course there is and it is also a constitutional provision and constitutional value on the trio of governments where all three pillars are independent completely, independently. However, no pillar of government is independent of Croatian interests and Croatian interest is a rule of law. So, of course, from every pillar of government, you can speak out loudly and publicly if it is a violation of exactly that, the rule of law, which means the implementation of a consistent law and what it says in the laws. It is a Croatian interest and it connects and must connect all three levels of government. And as for the rules non-bis, and I'm going, we're thinking the same thing. I may not have, I may not have elaborated too much, but I actually mentioned in this context, listing certain groups of cases and certain groups of decisions of the European Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70893	The Honorable Davorin Mlakar will speak on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70894	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Representatives with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The predecessors have already talked about the fact that this is the first time before parliament a report on the work of the Office of Representatives of the Republic of Croatia in front of the European Court of Human Rights, and I believe that we share the satisfaction that we can discuss this topic at the plenary session, that we can demonstrate ourselves about the report and the allegations it contains, that we are familiar with the work of a significant institution that I would say and after many years of existence is still looking for its best positions or the best place in our system. In fact, I'm sure you noticed that the office changed its status in its own time working within the Ministry of Justice and was later singled out in perhaps not the happiest name but the professional service of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. However, this position of the office, I think, is important for their work, so I would also begin our observation of this report with what we think is extremely important and what I assume has shown in this report on the possibilities of the Office's work, and I would like to quote from page 10: "For the quality of the cooperation of offices and state bodies from other branches of government, it is necessary that representation operations are regulated by legislation at the level of the law and not by regulation as it is now regulated, since the regulation cannot prescribe obligations to other bodies outside the circle of the executive authority." When you read the report, when you see the structure of the items in front of the office and when you see the scope, the scope of the affairs the office is dealing with, then it is clear to everyone that the office has to get jurisdiction according to others, I would tell the authorities outside the executive circle to be able to adequately, which is very important in their procedure, in time and reasoned response to everything that is done in front of the office. That is why I would like to appeal to us, instead of regulating the office's status, government regulations, the law setting out the way of work, the structure and the financing of the Office for the Representative of the Republic of Croatia before the European Court of Justice. This may, of course, be the case, my colleague Kregar was talking about, I would say, by comparisons with the Attorney General, I think there is also a comparison to the State's Attorney's Office here, so it is no doubt a service that sews the interests of the Republic of Croatia, represents it before the European institutions and should be given an adequate position in our system. This should also be added to the fact that in 2012, according to the report, the staff structure of the office rested on 7 employees of which 6 lawyers or lawyers, mostly one administrative secretary. When you see the amount of work, in particular, I would say the complexity of the matter that the office deals with and the fact that 3 million and 700 thousand kuna were provided for by those 7 employees, of which 66% of the office spent on payments paid in the proceedings before the European Court of Justice, it is clear that this office is neither human or financially able to respond to all the more demanding jobs that are before it. Namely, it must represent the interests of the Republic of Croatia, as indicated in several places, not only where it is so to say that certain rights have been wronged by the executive authority but also concerning the proceedings of the judicial authority, it concerns the procedures of parts of the Executive Authority such as the police, and then, in particular, procedures conducted by all levels of the State's attorneys to finally and proceedings before the authorities of local self-government, which I assume, given the opening of the possibility for all citizens to be significantly increased compared to what has been found before the office so far. Because of this, we think that the staff failure of the office is one of the reasons that we need to seriously think about and the problem that can be relatively fast and relatively easy to solve because, regardless of the problems of the budget, several people according to the systematization, it seems to me 12 as much as you have, there can be no burden on the budget to be an argument and the reason why this office does not staff up with that minimum of people who can respond to these complex tasks. As a result, we hold that we can also propose in this statement on this report that we propose to the Government that the Law on the Office representing the Republic of Croatia be held before the European Court of Human Rights, but also regardless of the adoption of that regulation, to further strengthen the number of people needed to respond to all the requirements that are being made before it. He also told his colleague Kregar that we have seen that the number of cases is growing exponentially, we can believe that it will be more and more unfortunately, not only because of the conduct of state bodies, not only because of the conduct of local self-government units, but probably because of the people's awareness that there is one special form of protection of their rights, which, in time, shows itself as an opportunity to come to the satisfaction of what they think is hurt by the treatment of any of the national authorities. In addition to the subject, I would say worrying data, which is the fact of the structure of the new cases in front of this office, and it is said that unlike the years so far in which the number of requests against the state has gradually increased, and the proportion of the most complex and severe injuries in the applications accounted for a small part of the total number of applications, in 2012 for the first time, a change took place. Most of the new cases concerned precisely these violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and because of that, and also because of the fact, especially because of the success in human rights disputes, we believe that a growing number of cases will just come from that area, that it will become in some way an obstacle to adequate resolution if the office does not need a number of people to respond to these demands, and you have seen the structure, it seems to me over 3,000 subjects to that number of people, so for 6 people who do jobs in the office. We think it is necessary, I would say immediately to suggest that the office is teamed up with the required number of people in order to continue working at all because otherwise it will become a problem at all and often because of cases in front of the European Court, we will have the same case in the office that should solve this situation. What seems also important in the proposal given by the office, we believe, in relation to the practice of other EU countries, is the financial responsibility of those bodies that cause violations of the Convention, to suggest when it is considered that the work of the office and the status of the office is regulated by law, to determine that obligation of the financial responsibility of the authorities that committed the offences to respond financially, not that all these finances are de facto poured into the resources of the state budget, and thus some have spoken of it, the taxpayers several times bear the burden of wrong procedures or wrong procedures, and it can happen to bodies that have no direct connection with them and with the budget. For this reason, we accept this report on behalf of the HDZ Club, we will accept the report and suggest that some of the proposals in this report, if possible, in some conclusion that would go towards the Government of the Republic of Croatia in several thesiss, translate into asking the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate the status of the office by law and not by regulation, and to fill the emergency office with the required number of personnel so that it can answer the questions raised before it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70895	Thank you, too. On behalf of HNS Representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70896	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Ms. MPs, colleagues and colleagues. Here one might wonder if it blows the winds of consensus into Croatian political space? It seems to me like they're smoking, but it seems like it's just winds, so it's going to go away, so we're going to go back to the way things were. But every sign of consensus, even on such a question that is not a matter of particular importance, is welcome. So mostly I agree with everything that's been said here about the work of this office. This is probably one of the few reports that we consider in the Croatian Parliament, which rests on the government's regulation and does not rest on the law. Resting some of the activities of an institution under the law should mark the increased importance, increased importance of the institution and of the work performed by the institution. This is one of the few institutions and activities that are being reported to the Croatian Parliament, and that this institution is only resting on government regulations and not on the law. and it is quite justified at first, I must say, that, because of the importance of this issue, and also for other procedural reasons that affect the work and efficiency of that office and the whole work that the office is doing, that this issue is regulated by law. Therefore, not only for the sake of symbolic level but for the real level, since this office communicates with the complete de facto state administration system, it has permanent competences and it would be good to define these competences so that the execution of jobs is in a way prescribed by law and binding. For now, it is as seen in this report often optional communication in important matters. The optional communication in important things can't be good. I therefore absolutely agree and support the proposal from the report that the issue of the work of this office is the attitude of the office to other institutions and bodies of the state administration and judicial authorities to raise itself to the level of law and to prescribe mandatory communication because often, as the relevant authorities write here, do not respond at all to what the office proposes that is absolutely not allowed. So not only should these bodies provide information to the office about what they are doing on this matter but it should in some way be required to act in one part of the opinion and even the orders of this office, which is not the case. So this office, or its work, and in fact the European Court of Human Rights, is another opportunity for European bodies whose practice and legal position is defined as improving the functioning of our bodies, the bodies of the Republic of Croatia. So this is not an EU body, this is a Council of Europe body, so in some ways a pan-European body with more participating countries than the EU. But since it has developed practice, it would be well obvious and good principles on which his work rests, it would be good if all the opportunities that we are given to improve our judicial and other complete administrative system of the country to use it, and therefore it is a pity that this office has not gained enough power. And what it says in the office report is almost incomprehensible. So the chances that this office is giving the Republic of Croatia to improve its not only judicial but also police, in one part even a complete administrative mechanism are so great that it's a pity that because of the lack of five officers who were supposed to be there and not admitted to a working relationship we didn't take that chance because of these five people. I suppose the financial damage we pay for that office being unable to do its job well enough or doing it better is certainly higher than the salaries of those five employees of the office that should be admitted and absolutely the obstacle should be tried to skip and not receive those 5 than perhaps more employees. In one part of this office's report on his work, he seems almost dramatic. So, as far as I was able to understand from the report, there are no translators, and translations and relevant state bodies provide all the rulings concerning the Republic of Croatia without translators, and it is one person who simultaneously communicates on the supervision of the European Court's rulings with various bodies, giving them instructions on how to respect the Conventional Law of the so-called Conventional Law, giving them judgments, overseeing their work, and all of this is done by one person in the office who works in that department to monitor the execution of the European Court of Human Rights judgments and therefore at certain times seems dramatic. It's absolutely impossible to imagine how this one person can do the whole job at all. So it's said here that there are a lot of overtime hours, so the employees work in conditions where they're actually sick and we should go to sick leave which is then again the issue of their human rights, working in terms of no vacation, so something that's absolutely unreasonable, unreasonable, and that question should certainly be resolved. When it comes to the real impact of the work of the European Court of Human Rights, and in the middle of this office, it should be noted that this office, through a series of its own or that mechanism of work of the European Court of Human Rights, can significantly affect the improvement of our judicial and administrative practice in the Republic of Croatia. So apart from the standard surveillance carried out to monitor the European Court of Human Rights decisions, my human right is compromised because my HDZ colleagues are constantly talking while I'm here, I think I'm talking a lot about a lot of good things. In addition to standard supervision of the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights judgments, there are also attempts to change fundamentally. Therefore, it is not only an individual case of some verdict but there are judgments that detect systemic disorders of the judicial and administrative practice of the Republic of Croatia and therefore there are so-called so-called Court and Administrative Practices of the Republic of Croatia. enhanced supervision and there is a special pilot of the ruling that sees systemic problems in a segment in the functioning of the judiciary. And these items under systematic supervision, including those pilot rulings that indicate that in some problem because a problem is repeated again, care should in some way be devoted to monitoring the entire system, and not to the individual case in judgment, and this is, of course, an opportunity to improve the work of our administrative and judicial bodies. So based on everything I've said, the club of HNS representatives will definitely support this. It is certainly good and the proposal in the report that financial responsibility is not borne by the office because the office seems to me by what it does has nothing to do with the penalties that the Republic of Croatia pays, and from the budget of that office more than half, and that is not a large amount, that is 3 and some million kuna, but half of it goes to payment of the penalty which is actually the least problem but these penalty is, as far as I understand the salary from the budget office, which is actually not logical. It would be logical for the foames to be paid by those authorities of the state administration or by the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia, which are responsible for the judgments for which the Republic of Croatia should pay for the penalty, and then, of course, their responsibility and sanctions for those who run those bodies could be more clearly laid down, which would lead to the correction of these errors rather than if those pens paid by the Republic of Croatia were paid by an abstract institution which was not guilty of what happened, which is therefore the Office for Representatives of the Republic of Croatia before the European Court of Human Rights. So that question should be regulated. Therefore, I welcome this general acceptance of this report, the general support of these processes which can lead to the improvement of the Croatian court and administrative practice and the work of its bodies, and I hope that the Government will have an understanding of the proposals that are set out here, and this is the question that the work of this office is resolved through the law, that the relations of the office with the other bodies with which the office communicates and that this communication is more likely and more fruitful and, of course, the issue of the teamwork of the office is resolved as soon as possible, because these minus 5 officials certainly give you much greater losses to the Republic of Croatia than the potential gains that would be gained if that office were to work properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70897	Thank you, too. We're moving on to replicas. Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70898	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Rados, you have twice reiterated that the financial damage, so you called it for the first time, because of the inequitableness, the lack of teamwork of the representative's office itself, so that this financial damage has been increased precisely for that reason. I don't think there's any direct correlation. I am also as you have said about the full teamwork of this Office of Representatives of the Republic of Croatia in front of the European Court of Justice, but the damage and financial effects that are listed here on page 33, which are due to the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, in fact, have no direct connection with the number of employees in that office. I would rather say that the employees of the Office are making huge efforts, so the number and hours of overtime are increased, and to say that you yourself have said that they are doing their best to fulfill these tasks. But the only damage financial that the Court of Human Rights has set is that there are 100 of them out there she's who she is. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70899	Thank you. My colleague Radosh's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70900	So in his report, his colleague Grubisic found that he had completed most of his tasks. But according to the tendency of increasing the case, increasing the case, making these lawsuits more and more complex, becoming more and more entrenched in systematic issues, not in certain individual cases, would certainly have contributed to better work. The benefits of the Republic of Croatia, of course, are not only financial those 350,000 euros in annual penalties that are likely to increase if this is a systemic disorder, and they cannot be solved so easily is not the biggest problem. The biggest problem is that good practices and good legal regulations contained in the Convention or the European Court of Human Rights because the Office does not have a good enough team and that its communication with other bodies has not been resolved and good practice is actually not quickly and sufficiently used and applied in our system which should therefore be strengthened. Therefore, the least we should do at this stage right before us is to increase the number of employees according to that uniform number of 12 of them, and it is possible that the number of employees of that Office may be higher than those prescribed 12. So as many people do their job well if the job too much work can't be done properly. Therefore, the least we should do is respect the prescribed number of employees of the Office as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70901	Thank you. Nadica Jelash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70902	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, fellow Rados, in your debate, you said at the very beginning that every sign of consensus between parliamentary parties is welcome, even if it is not of particular importance as we have figured out, perhaps wrongly, a report by the representative of the Republic of Croatia before the European Court of Human Rights. So, I do, on the contrary, think that this report is a matter of particular importance, and the greater consensus between parliamentary parties on this and these issues will be that sign that there is an increasing conflict between us MPs on human rights. And I actually think that this will result in then and less mistreatment by the state institutions, precisely regarding human rights. Because you are about to agree with the Parliament, the legislative authority, and it is we who are the representatives of the Parliament who are the ones who are governed by the laws of the state institutions, and all the laws are, in fact, more or less related to respecting and the exercise of human rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70903	My colleague Radosh's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70904	Well, I don't think there's anything left for me, Elish, but to thank you for opening that question. So I made a mistake there that wasn't. I said, of course, that's not a question of particular importance by thinking that there are actually a lot more big questions, even if this is a principle question, a fundamental question of attitude to law. So it's hard to say that there's something more to it than that. But in my opinion, there are still more politically urgent issues where the consensus in some way might be more necessary than it is here even if I am now in danger of making a mistake like the matter of relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina, the issue of our regional policy, would actually be relations with the region. So these are issues of particular national interest, such as the question of relations to justice policy generally, perhaps this is a bigger issue than this, let's say individual issues of consensus on the Croatian Education Strategy. These are the highest questions where the consensus should come in some way, but here's the more I talk, I'm afraid I'm getting more involved. So this is the work of an individual body that covers a small part but based on the work of that body are actually fundamental values, fundamental principles. In that sense, it is an important, irrelevant question. And I'm gonna end up with making a mistake, so it's a very important question.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70905	Thank you. Otherwise, I owe you an explanation regarding your depression to the marble. I've estimated that your years of experience in the Parliament won't interfere with your debate, so I haven't warned my colleagues. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70906	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam representatives of the Republic of Croatia with co-workers, it is nice to see you for the first time and for the first time a report that I must say is excellent, transparent and that there is much to be learned from it but also that tells us about the state of judicial and administrative practice in the Republic of Croatia compared to the European Court of Human Rights European Court of Human Rights and that this report is different from many reports relating to the European institutions in which many, many English languages are used. This is a Croatian-language report and only here and there is one keybinding listed as this European Court of Human Rights of the ECHR, so what is commendable and the HDSSB Club will support your report when voting in the Croatian Parliament. Most speakers before me focused on the number of employees in the very office that is unsatisfactory and it is clear if we have in mind an increase in the number of cases coming to the European Court of Human Rights and the number of applications of these cases that are on a steady rise and even in an enormous increase compared to earlier years. Here are the statistics, so where it is said that the European Court of Human Rights received against the Republic of Croatia in 2012, almost 2,000 cases in 2012, 20111192 or almost 900 less, years before 990 requests and 2009755 requests. I must say that regardless of our entry into the EU on 1 July 2013, this Court of Human Rights is acting both wider and outside the EU countries, namely, I think that Georgia or the Caucasus countries, Ukraine are also the sides of the Council of Europe, so this court has acted before and there have been lawsuits and complaints. Thank you very much for coming today, and if from 2012 presented here because I asked the Minister of Justice every year I don't know from any of the options, I think that Mr. Bošnjakovic was in the former government, later Mr. Milenić came, how much money is Croatia, what are the financial effects of these lawsuits before the European Court of Human Rights, and then the ministers told me about these effects which I personally was not Minister but those financial ones to say to the penalties that Croatia paid for the lawsuit and because of the inadequacies, unhappiness or slowness in administrative and judicial practice in the Republic of Croatia. Here, for 2012, the Republic of Croatia paid fair fees as part of the execution process, 326 thousand euros or about 2.5 million kuna. Compared to 2011, the increase is 70% because in 2011, 190,000 euros were paid, so about a million and a half kuna. When we look at that curve, then the 70% can be seen either in this curve or in the chart of those pillars of the increase in the number of fees due to the claims that have been settled in the European Court of Human Rights. There is also a problem of communication that the Office conducts through the Government of the Republic of Croatia regulations towards the administrative and judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia which have been in the process. This relationship is not defined by the Law. We law is not a matter of office status as an office, so he exists, we should team him up so we all agreed to have a decent representative of Croatia in front of the European Court of Human Rights but this relationship of releations which I would now say in English between the office and our domestic administrative, judicial and even representative bodies where certain things and problems appear both in front of representative bodies and cities and municipalities and in counties and even with the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia are not legally defined. So, there is no power, no force legally, but as soon as I would like to see it, and I suggest that the Minister of Justice treats you, that these relations between the office and the administrative legal authorities in the Republic of Croatia are legally in a hurry procedure and then the office would have further teamwork that was problematic and that tool in its hands to be more effective, more efficient, faster and to oblige the administrative and judicial authorities to what actually the Office of Representatives of the Republic of Croatia is looking for to be faster in response to the European Court of Human Rights requirements. I've talked about fees for an unreasonable term or duration of the trial before about this pay phone. He even represented one of the main problems in earlier times in 2009, 2010 where people were therefore defined as being married, which lasted seven years and according to some legal provisions, the development of the table and the bed in Croatia is defined as being considered a divorce for a year but I do not know how it is possible that and this is a very good example of a truly unreasonable duration of the 7-year trial. As far as the Ljubljanska Banka is concerned, it might be said not only in this Parliament, it is good that it has a television transmission so that our citizens hear that either Ališić as it is called and the other court of human rights places all these complaints and complaints that the court has decided that the Ljubljanska Banka has decided, regardless of the contracts and talks of Croatia with Slovenia, regardless of the breakup of the former Yugoslavia and the rights which withdraw both Slovenia and Croatia from that contract, that ordinary, natural persons, people get the dispute before the European Court of Human Rights for the payment of claims and the enjoyment of their foreign funds in the Ljubljanska Banka. And here it says exactly how many of them could be classified into a group of them. That is why I say that it is good that we have this report but also that here in this debate citizens hear about what the European Court of Human Rights is discussing and what it is dealing with and how it solves. In addition to representing the Republic of Croatia, which no one has said, the office has answered more than a thousand questions from citizens who are potential prosecutors of Croatia to the European Court of Human Rights. So if someone calls and asks how I could sue Croatia for its rights, then the office is obliged to offer him a way and procedure to achieve it. And it's one of the actions that probably interferes a lot with these regular procedures, a bit of a distraction in the office's work. But it's good that the office exists, it's good to team up and have someone who might be responding to these citizens' enquiries about lawsuits against the Republic of Croatia and to abuse as human rights and fundamental freedoms are said. That is exactly what the European Court of Justice is called. It is also mentioned in this material that supervision of the execution of the European Court of Human Rights judgments and the establishment of the advice is called, which would be drawn up by several administrative authorities of the Republic of Croatia, which would oversee the implementation of the judgments, which is good for both these administrative authorities and for those persons participating in this advice that oversees the execution of the human rights ruling to learn or learn in some way about these verdicts that have become final and that we are doing so in our case law in order to reduce the number of claims brought against the European Court of Human Rights, and in relation to the Republic of Croatia where the defendant is a party. Another statistical data, according to the number of inhabitants, and according to the number of cases reported to the European Court of Justice, Croatia took the 3rd infamous place, 3rd in Europe but only in the EU rather than in all those countries I spoke of together. There are both BiH and Macedonia and Ukraine and Georgia, and Azerbaijan and Armenia, etc. all those countries in the European Council. So, of all of them, Croatia is 3rd country by number of lawsuits in relation to relative numbers, not the absolute number of lawsuits, but the relative number of lawsuits is in this respect, as in the economic sense behind Greece, Spain and Portugal, immediately Croatia is in the economic sense 3rd place, and in this case, I am not happy with it. I am not at all pleased that it is in fact pointing to failures in the administrative and judicial bodies of the Republic of Croatia. Is that they do well that they do well and quickly, so that there is no delay in the speed of the trial then there would be less lawsuits. But unfortunately, here we are, I don't know if they'll be saying champions soon, but I don't know if I'm happy with that information at all, even though it's not the office's fault but someone else's. For this very reason, and it is necessary to regulate the legal relations that I initially discussed between administrative judicial and representative bodies, to regulate relations with the Office of Representatives of the Republic of Croatia. and so would the Minister of Justice when the reconstruction of the judiciary is carried out and the rest is arranged and that part because the office is actually within and under the authority of the Government, not the Ministry of Justice, but I think it is the minister of justice who should propose that law or those laws. The total of 3344 acts were analysed on the statistics on how many cases there were in 2012. It is even less significant how many acts have been analysed, I would say and state that 6 of the lawsuits brought against the Republic of Croatia contained 40,000 pages of the file. Do you know what this stunt or object is supposed to look like? From table to ceiling. I don't know exactly, but it depends on the thickness of the paper. So six cases had 40,000 or 6.5 thousand per file. All this office had to study, consult all those involved in Croatia and administrative and representative bodies and the judiciary and everything else, it had to cross over, spill very carefully to know how to represent the Republic of Croatia before the European Court of Human Rights. It's really a huge job. But these six cases, listed here, and which I'm not going to name here, and the public isn't that significant, we had 40,000 pages. And just the office's work shows problems at home, as it says, in home legal space. Here comes my time, and there's a lot more to be said about the positive work of this office. As I said before, the HDSSB will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70907	Thank you. Replica Nadica Jelash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70908	Thank you, Your Honor. So, colleagues Grubisic, one good part of your debate, you have devoted to the financial consequences for the Croatian state because of the mistreatment of state institutions regarding human rights. So these amounts will, as we heard from the MP, be growing, given the dynamic growth in injuries, you said in 2012 to 2011. 45%, 2013 at '12. Moreover, you mentioned the number of 70%. The very fact is that Croatian citizens will pay more and more indemnity as taxpayers because of this increase in injuries, and that is one, in fact, huge contradiction. So, justice for Croatian citizens is more inaccessible, it is more expensive and in itself is actually another additional injustice. Therefore, the damage from mistreatment by state institutions should be brought down to the state institutions themselves, even if I say so, should be brought down to the level of staff in state institutions themselves, i.e. to demand more responsibility from workers in everyday practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70909	Thank you. Answer, colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70910	My colleague Jelash, thank you very much for the supplement, actually, that part I haven't even worked out, I'm running out of time. But the damage if you bring it down to the state body, the administrative body, the judicial body that has done damage, and Croatia has paid for the European Court of Human Rights suit, it again comes out of taxes, cuts and other citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Only if it were individualised, so whoever it was, not to say, the main pest, if he were to bear, so, or at least partially, to bear responsibility, and in the sense of financial meaning, then perhaps this would be the first example if someone were to be punished in such a way, and perhaps that particular example would improve the situation throughout Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70911	Thank you, too. Mrs. Internique's representative came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70912	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs, I'd just like to explain three things. When we talk about the case of Ališić, i.e. the case of an old, unsettled old foreign exchange savings in the Bank of Ljubljana, this 2012 report, so the European Court of Justice decided, within the seven judges of the Council, for the benefit of Croatia and other countries, that is to say that the Republic of Slovenia has violated the rights to peaceful ownership and the right to inefficient legal means. However, I must stress that this case is not final in the debate before the European Court of Justice. It is now being considered by 17 judges of the European Court of Human Rights and we will see how the result will be, the final result of this case before the European Court of Justice. But in any case, it is an extremely important subject because it refers to 130 thousand only Croatian savings, not to the Bosnian savings of the Ljubljanska Banka. That's what it's all about. Furthermore, as regards a respected colleague, Grubisic, who spoke about how the office communicates with potential parties addressed to the office. I must say, we have an extremely large number of people who want to sue the Republic of Croatia in front of the European Court of Justice. We are MPs of the Republic of Croatia, we are not their representatives and often get the wrong impression, and because of this we spend a lot of time on phones and responding to performances, that unfortunately we cannot represent them in front of the European Court, but if there is a dispute, we are unfortunately against them, or we are defending state bodies. But as an office, we give anyone who talks to us so-called. set of information on which every person, convention, instructions on how to apply to the court, but legal aid as an office cannot be given and must not be given to Croatian citizens because if there is a dispute, we are on the opposite sides. And the third thing, when we talk about finance, I'd like to tell you that it is true that the actions of others, the judicial authorities, the executive authorities, the legislative authorities, we're all funded from the budget. However, we believe as an office, and on the basis of other countries' practices, that if a particular body involved in the procedure that led to the breach of the Convention, that and a financial sense, so within the framework of their budget, they would more quickly develop awareness of the needs of change in conduct because it is not always necessary to change the laws. Our laws are largely opposed to the convention, but the problem is the conduct of our bodies. We therefore believe that if, at the end of the year, the budget of a particular ministry, if we did not say any of them, it had to be given a certain amount at the end of the year, then we think that there would be a faster development of awareness of the need for positive changes. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70913	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70914	Thank you very much for clarifying Mrs. Croatia's representative before the Court of Human Rights, the European Court. I now ask, after what you have said about Alisic and the second, in connection with the ruling of the first degree, so the European Court of Human Rights, where Alisic and others, have, therefore, achieved a positive outcome of their lawsuit against, in fact, Slovenia, you have brought me into thinking and whether the discussion of our Government, Minister of Foreign Affairs with Slovenia in connection with the succession and claims... has actually led that second-degree court to one, not to say, not to be mistaken, but to a situation where it has damaged this process which has gone positively during.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70915	Answer me, Madam Representative, just turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70916	Thank you. When we talk about a procedure before the European Court of Human Rights, it refers to unsustained foreign savings. That part of the problem with the old foreign savings related to the transferred part of the foreign savings, it takes place in the context of talks, agreements, negotiations by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the competent ministries, i.e. the competent authorities of Croatia with the competent authorities of Slovenia. At the European Court of Human Rights there is that part of the old foreign savings that has been uncarried and therefore for those citizens who have never transferred from the Ljubljanska Banka, which was possible to Croatian banks for their savings in the Ljubljanska Banka. I hope I made myself clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70917	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70918	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Representatives of the Office of Representatives of the Republic of Croatia before the European Court of Human Rights, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to tell the club's name about our seeing this report. So the report will be accepted as a club because it was done correctly for itself. The office is as the professional service of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. as a specialized law firm representing the interests of the Republic of Croatia in disputes, so in a trial before the European Court and could not make a different report than it did. But from this report, we can very well identify certain phenomena, i.e. the failure of the most important bodies of our system, which is the judiciary and that is the administration. So we can analyse the institutes of silence and we can analyse the institutes of action or non-compliance with certain legal matters because if there was an action then there would be no trial before the European Court of Justice. In the hierarchy of legal regulations, the Convention is above domestic laws, and below the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which would mean that, in doubting the application of the Convention or domestic law, there is an advantage in any case, because it is an international standard. In this report, data say, of the 47 Member States of the Council of Europe whose citizens have the right to ask for the assistance of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, Croatia went third in 2012. Croatian citizens are seeking justice before that court more often than even the citizens of Albania and of citizens of Ukraine, Turkey, Russia, BiH and a series of other EU member states that we consider less consolidated than the Republic of Croatia. As already said, I'll just remind you, in 2012. The European Court of Human Rights took into consideration 65,000 human rights claims, of which 1912 and almost 3% of the total number came from the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, in 2012, there was a significant increase in the number of cases relating to different areas of law enforcement. What is alarming to us, as the analysis shows, is an increase in the number of cases relating to the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, violation of the right to life, prohibitions of torture, humiliating and inhumane treatment, violation of the right to enjoy property peacefully. The lawsuits relate most to the violation of the right to a fair trial and to cases relating to the trial within a reasonable period of time. What's to conclude? So first of all, it is to conclude the effectiveness of the trial in front of the domestic bodies. If we have a reasonable period of time, the truth is not time-defined, but if it is a reasonable time-limit, then it is something to be respected, something that is the right party and something to be called upon by the party if that reasonable time-limit is exceeded. On the other hand, the question arises why we have put ourselves in a position to be brought before a court in Strasbourg because of the degradation of this institute of reasonable time. Special attention has been drawn to cases related to war crimes investigations against the civilian stand, involving inefficient investigations and the prosecution of crimes committed during the war. We have a series of examples. Thus, before the European Court of Human Rights, 21 cases against Croatia have already been filed by families of victims of the 1990s war in Croatia. Of the 21 lawsuits, 18 were over unexplored and unpunished cases of murders and the disappearance of citizens of Serbian nationality and 3 of the charges related to Croatian deaths. Nearly half of the lawsuits concern, half of these charges brought against Serbs in Sisak in the early 1990s. The charges for inefficient investigations and court proceedings have also arrived for crimes in Kiev, Osijek, Vukovar, Slavonski Brod, Vinkovci and in the towns of Pocrnic, Brloška Dubrava and Toplovica. Therefore, all families sued the Republic of Croatia under Article 2. A Convention on Human Rights that guarantees the right to live. Part of the family has also been sued by Croatia for violating the right to freedom and security, that is, Article 5; the right to a fair trial of Article 6; the right to respect private and family life, Article 8 and the right to an effective legal remedy is Article 13. Part of them also called for discrimination prohibited in Article 14. Convention. We have an example here. So, Jelica Pajic from Vukovar, a civilian war victim whose husband was killed in Vukovar in '91. For years, she sued the state for inefficient investigations and impunity. A settlement was made in this case. The Republic of Croatia has started making friendly deals with families to prevent her being found guilty. This would avoid a verdict, but not a fine, or compensation to the families of the victims. In the procedures for the execution of the ruling from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, 326 000 euros have been paid so far, representing an increase of 70% compared to 2011. So we can conclude and we can ask the question of how much the financial burden of the state is due to the irresponsibility and illegal procedures of the executive authority, procedures that do not comply with the accepted norms, and the non-compliance with our own legal deadlines that we have standardized with domestic legislation. That's one essential question that we need to ask ourselves. I also point out here the case of the returnee Peter Kunić from Krnjak in case of return of assets in cases of unauthorized investment. The return of property suit has been dropped in the Karlovak court for years. At the same time, he sought protection at the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which ruled in his favour by ordering that 19 and a half thousand euros in compensation for the violation of the right of peaceful enjoyment of ownership and the right to trial be paid within a reasonable period of time. However, Kunic remains the execution of a million - and 300 thousand kuna used by another man, or who used someone’s warrant. That part did not solve the domestic justice system today, and it remains a man's execution on the house of a million and 300,000 kuna. We also highlight the case of Milica Miladinovic, who sued the state for the return of pension and length of the proceedings, and the inability to move into its own house. As in the above case, it is necessary to pay the temporary user 300,000 kuna and litigation costs and waits for the solution of this procedure as a tenant next to its own house. Therefore, both cases were subject to monitoring for the closure of Chapter 23. - Justice and fundamental human rights, and they're not closed yet. So from all of this, it is concluded and asked itself why we are bringing ourselves in, why we are putting ourselves in a position to correct the judgments of international courts that the credibility and effectiveness of the home administration and justice system should be corrected. Not only do we need to be corrected, but we also pay very high compensation for these procedures. We will accept this report anyway and we think that the Office of Representatives of the Republic of Croatia is doing its job well.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70919	Thank you, too. We're moving on to an individual debate. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70920	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President, respected representatives of the Republic of Croatia before the European Court of Human Rights with their co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. As the pathologist's doctor sees all the mistakes of his fellow doctors, it seems to me that this is exactly how our representative, Mrs. Internect, sees exactly all of the government's mistakes and what's been happening and what's happening to both legislative and executive and judicial authorities. So, we all like to talk nice about ourselves, and when we talk like that, we might really be who we want to be while Mrs. Internect sees us as we really are. Now this is one face-to-face with the truth that there are fewer misunderstandings in communication, because it is precisely in the execution of these decisions that you can see how much communication is and how much application of the constitutional principle of the division of power but also about the co-operation of these authorities is inevitable and that it must be correctly understood. Of course, firstly, each of these three branches of government, given that their decisions are the subject of the European Court of Human Rights, first of all, we need to carry out our own duty, our mission on the one hand as legislative, executive, on the other hand, by the judicial authority and by doing this parallel and mutual communication. All that would be less. Of course, it can never come down to it, and even I would say below any minimum because there are some different sightings of certain things. But certainly this report, which I welcome and accept, indicates exactly that such a way of approach is inevitable and necessary. What does that mean? First of all, the legislative authority must pass laws that comply with the conventions. We can still see that many are not even elaborated. We will see that there in the execution of European Court of Human Rights rulings. In one word, we don't make laws that are in the interest of our citizens. On the other hand, the executive authority, which is the most common and the proposing authority, is the first to invite such decisions, i.e. the laws, to make sure that they are actually applied, and when other authorities apply them to the citizens themselves. And what is also important for the power of judgment to be free to judge, but it also does not release common sense and law. Therefore, the responsibility of all three branches of government, and then these things will be less. Many colleagues have talked about a better teamwork, so I welcome and advocate it. However, we have seen that many institutions where citizens expect much that took many years almost more than a decade to revive them. Each year, they also received more resources from each government to carry out both their constitutional and legal tasks. However, the most concerned are those items that could be classified in that group that are structural. This is what they were talking about just before colleagues, especially by mentioning certain items, concrete objects and I would not say that they are being called but would classify them or particularly apostrophe, these are inefficient investigations especially in war crimes, and it is certain that the course of time is not an ally in detecting or processing, and that is something that is a major problem. But we also see it and I know it from a long time ago, so those who, who have some practice and domestic courts know how many essentially medical mistakes when they're on the other side of the law, when the injuries are not done on purpose, but the injury of the duty of attention, caused by death or serious injury in any case to the patient, that these are also structural problems in Croatia, not one or this first. That these investigations are sloppy, that there may be some kind of false collegiate cover-up and cover-up, and that's something that's come up now. It's all Croatia's paying for. I would especially point out what I have already said in one replica and we will think about it and I would pray as much as possible or today in the future of our MPs what it is that Croatia is expected in terms of the principle of non-bis in I go, so whether it is more incomparable in terms of war crimes, it is certainly very interesting, current and wants all three branches of government to be introduced in time. The problem, therefore, of inefficient investigations and other cases has been shown. I think we'll have less of that in the future given the newly appointed state-level attorney's institute that's been doing so for years as commander of the investigation, so the investigative judge is just his controller. The length of proceedings remains a major problem, but unfortunately this is also the problem of the European Court of Human Rights itself. What I would particularly like to mention is in the Rujak case for the first time, the court said that freedom of expression does not contain insults and slanders at the expense of the other. We had as in the pre-accession period, we had some of the great wise men who came and even in the name of now can't remember exactly which institutions, when we were doing a new Penal Code to decriminalize insult and slander in view of this period of socialism when we didn't have freedom of speech. So, to go from one extreme to another. Of course, we have opposed this because man can be left without property and without freedom but if he cannot remain without dignity because it is the basic ingredient, the basic content of human personality and the person himself. But in the capitalist way of thinking, and so little can be seen to achieve in human beings, according to that fundamental dignity, according to the dignity of a human person and all to God, wrapped up in a cloak of freedom of speech. You can imagine if a criminal said that he was organized into some criminal association that you're preventing me from freedom of association, almost having, and the same answer can be said to this. So, when it comes to the execution of the European Court's rulings, there is a need for cooperation. It is therefore necessary not only to insist on the execution of what our office is doing but also to act preventively and to inform what the office is also trying to do is just to ask how much more acceptable we are to such instructions and suggestions, as the European Court of Human Rights is considering, in which direction it is going, these are valuable data to us as legislators to create, in which respect, also to the judicial authority that, as it is considering. There were those here who weren't lawyers, but they're thinking with a healthy logic. If someone ignores the law, the state pays it, and the other branch of the government pays, then I stand on the stand in that one, and I think it will happen very quickly, but Slovenia already has that one budget for each government to have almost independent, greater independence, especially the judicial authority, and then for all the damage it causes to the citizens in the execution and to make good on such a single budget so that we can see those who are at the head of certain institutions for a long time in these positions, given the damage that their institution must pay. I'm not talking about personal responsibility here right now. That might be too much, one where the right intention happens, but then we're already on the ground of criminal responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70921	Thank you, too. Boris Blazekovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70922	I thought it was going to be a replica. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Representative with your associates. The report itself is somewhat more on behalf of the HNS Club of Liberal Democrats, a colleague of Rados said. They were very interesting discussions. I would especially support the last discussion of my colleague, Ingrid Anticevic. And I'd say in a little bit of a different way, even though I'd say similarly about this report. We are, like, as full-aware citizens and free-willed citizens, we decided that we want to live in an orderly community. That's why we founded the state. This country needs to serve us and has a very clear purpose. We need citizens to ensure a free, safe and simple life. We therefore give up our freedoms and pay for our country, and leave it and its bodies to establish and change the instruments that will make our demands and rights come true. In order to achieve this, the state makes rules of conduct for all of us, or for each of us, rules that each of us, or each of us, must treat in exactly the same way. There are a number of institutions and countless rules that the state establishes to achieve these objectives. One of the most important, and often the most important institutions for each citizen, i.e. the citizen, is the court and wider for the whole state, or community, the entire judicial system. But since nothing is perfect and neither is the state nor the judicial system and the trial, neither in Croatia nor in other European countries, so is Croatia and the European countries under the pressure of their societies for enhanced protection of human rights and civil liberties, has joined and adopted the European Convention on Human Rights on the basis of which the European Court of Human Rights was established. The European Court of Human Rights is an international institution which, under certain conditions, can consider the demands of persons who believe they have violated their rights guaranteed by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and along with the protocols of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia ratified them on 05 November 1997. The Court of Justice may only consider requests against the countries which ratified the Convention and the protocols to which it is concerned and only if the appeal is in connection with the case under the jurisdiction of the public authorities and not against the individual or private organisations. The court is not a court of appeal in relation to domestic courts, so it is necessary to first deplete all domestic remedies unless the person applying to the court proves that it would be ineffective. In an appeal brought to the highest court, the state against which the person wishes to appeal, it is necessary to make at least the same complaint which will be later brought in the application of the court. The number of judges is equal to the number of Contracting States, but they do not represent a single country. For the judge of the European Court of Human Rights of the Republic of Croatia, a professor was elected at the Faculty of Law at the University of Zagreb, Ksenija Turković. In 2012, the European Court of Human Rights decided on 60 lawsuits, as already said against Croatia, and reached 23 verdicts. 18 has been decided that Croatia has violated the rights of applicants, and in 5 cases it has not. In 20 cases, there was a friendly solution to the dispute, in 15 the court decided it was an inadmissible request. As a curiosity, it should certainly be stated that the court made the first ruling in the case of foreign exchange savings, it was already said here, in the Bank of Ljubljana, in which Slovenia was said to have violated the right to peacefully enjoy ownership and the right to an effective judiciary, and the same decision explicitly states that the human rights of Croatia did not harm. Otherwise, the lawsuits relate most to a violation of the law, to an unfair trial, and then to cases involving inefficient investigations, especially the prosecution of crimes committed during the Homeland War, and large numbers of cases involving a reasonable period of time. Croatia, which is said, had to pay 325 thousand 950 euros last year, or 70% more than the year before. Earlier last year, the office received 60 new items, and by 15 October this year almost twice as many, 118. Another 20 are expected by the end of the year, according to the MP. The subject of the report is, among other things, about the ineffectiveness of the Croatian judiciary and that the Croatian state has violated human rights and violated human rights to its citizens and is also talking about the growing need for citizens to seek their human rights beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia. It is unusually important to speak publicly and often about all forms and each form of human rights violations by the state over its citizens. Each state, however democratic and liberal, is, by its very existence and executive institutions and by establishing a number of regulators, control mechanisms and such, persistent and always trying to limit the freedom of citizens. We are fighting against terror against our citizens through public and special civil society mechanisms. Many civil society organisations that are fighting for various kinds of human rights and civil freedoms are sometimes the only ones that, with the help of the media, or the public, point to this continuing need for the state to terrorise its citizens. In this struggle, part of the responsibility lies with the intellectual elites of society. There are clear and political elites that need to constantly point to any kind of terror of the state over its citizens and fight actively against it. This fight is permanent and will exist as long as the states exist. Society in some countries in this fight is more successful and some less successful. Croatia is unfortunately a country in which it has not yet completed a post-communist post-communist transition, in my opinion it is in the final phase. It must be harder for her to establish mechanisms for fighting for human rights and civil freedoms. But this is not... of the responsibility and obligation of all social elites and civil society organisations to constantly point to all forms of endangerment and freedom and rights, violence and discrimination against each person or group at risk. And something that personally put me in the eye by reading this report, so I'll read it. Chapter 4, paragraph F, in order to improve the effectiveness of the procedures for the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Justice at domestic level, and based on the good practice of other Member States and Councils of Europe, the Regulation on the Office of Representatives before the European Court of Human Rights established a expert advice on the execution of judgments and decisions of the European Court of Justice. According to Article 12. This Regulation is an inter-resorial, inter-institutional professional body composed of experts appointed and all the ministries and other bodies of the state administration, state agencies and offices and representatives of the highest judicial bodies, judges of the Constitutional and Supreme Court, deputy attorney general of the Republic of Croatia. It is established with the task of identifying, defining and implementing concrete measures and monitoring their implementation. The model of institutionalisation of domestic enforcement procedures through the inter-resorial and meeting of the Council of Ministers Committee of Europe is accepted by the expert body on the basis of excellent indicators of the performance of the identical bodies in other Member States of the Council of Europe. However, although a formally accepted model like this has not yet been revived in the Republic of Croatia. In particular, the process of appointing representatives in the expert council has lasted a long time, and some bodies have not appointed their representative since they do not consider that there is a need for their involvement in the work of the expert council. In the light of the fact that the execution of the judgment of the European Court of Justice is exclusively the task of the Office, which is not in accordance with Article 46(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Conventions and also with the Office of Representatives of the Republic of Croatia before the European Court of Human Rights. In this regard, it is regrettable that such an approach is another indicator of the lack of understanding of the character of the nature and importance of the international obligation of the Republic of Croatia to carry out any judgment and decision of the European Court of Justice relating to it. Finally, I think it is important that we all be aware of the importance of protecting the freedoms and human rights of every Croatian citizen or citizen and the rights of our fellow citizens should primarily be resolved in Croatia. And it is our obligation to establish all possible mechanisms for Croatian citizens' lawsuits against their country to be as rare as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70923	Thank you, too. Next up, Iron Lucky Flego. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70924	Since the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is taking care of the European Court of Human Rights, I thought it would be good for someone from the parliamentary delegation to say a few words to the parliamentary assembly. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs. Internship for the energy and engagement that is investing in all these affairs and, of course, the report that she presented to us and the foundation that we are first discussing on this subject. Ms. Stažnik is a paradoxical situation, representing the Republic of Croatia in front of the European Court of Human Rights, fighting abroad against Croatian citizens, and this is not easy and easy at all, but it is a task. The European Court of Human Rights is in great difficulty because it is covered by cases primarily from countries of new democracy and in a whole series of attempts to come to some reform conclusions one of the ideas is that those countries in which there are a large number of negative rulings for those countries will have to pay adequate additional contributions or a penalty because this testifies to their judicial deficit. In other words, it confirms that these countries have not adapted to all those European regulations that have agreed to respect and follow and join the Council of Europe, especially by joining the EU. In this sense, this report is very instructive, and it only makes sense if we draw appropriate conclusions and lessons from it. The conclusions and the lesson are that we can go much wider and say the issue of injustice is a general social issue, but the issue of non-processing injustice is the primary issue of that segment of authority that is in charge of it, so the judiciary. I'd be a lot more specific here than my previous colleagues. This report, i.e. the European Court of Human Rights rulings, points to ineffectiveness and ineffectiveness of Croatian courts. And please think that's my attitude and I hope you'll agree. In this sense, in order to learn from this valuable report, I am renewing my proposal to hold the Parliament if a one-day thematic session is to be organised by the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Law, the delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in cooperation with the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court and the Ministry of Justice because it seems to me that something needs to be done. My colleagues and colleagues, we are a country of an incomplete 4.5 million inhabitants, we are recordrs in the European Court of Human Rights by the number of cases, and that is the point at which we have to worry about our judiciary and our functioning and our society and our authorities. And what these thematic gatherings are going to conclude is open, but surely we should talk to the Fate Authority, and in some ways, I won't say I'm going to agree to be better equipped for all those European documents that we've accepted from our entry into those international organisations. It was just my remark. Mrs. Prosecutor, thank you once again, and I hope that we will take a step that is called from word to deed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70925	Thank you, too. We have one replica of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70926	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Flego, I strongly support this idea of yours and this proposal. I talked about this myself several times about a thematic session on this subject, so on the subject of the functioning of the judiciary. I think as a legislator, we have the right to invite all relevant factors in that system that is huge. We are now a member of the EU, therefore, also calling on those who are well-known and the practice of the European Court and our representative and all others and without any burden to discuss what can be read from these decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, because they should not now be finished and shut down by the conclusion of our debate, because we also have current problems, let's say, in the implementation of the Cooperation Act on the basis of the European arrest law, so on the basis of the European arrest warrant, we have both at present and we don't need to be afraid to talk about it in this body. Different interpretations, therefore different interpretations and legal and leading legal experts on certain provisions but also different case-laws. That's what we need to talk about openly. So don't blame each other from those three pillars of power each other and in a circle, but try everyone who has anything to say to sit here and open up a debate and make some conclusions. So I strongly imitate your idea of doing it right here in this House of Highs, which is the most representative body of all citizens and citizens and Croatian peoples.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70927	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Flego, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70928	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kosor, I'm glad we agree. Not only must we not be afraid to speak, but it seems to me that when we entered this House and when we swore we made a vow to speak everything we thought and therefore we are obliged to speak. If we disagree, the only way we can get through this is if we talk about a deal. And thank you for your support, I believe that she is not just yours, but that the other colleagues and colleagues share your opinion. In any case, I also agree that a legal solution would be much better than a solution through a government regulation. I'm a little out of agreement with my colleague, Mlakar, so I don't think we should ask the government to make the bill. In fact, if we're talking to the government, then we should ask the government to do it, but we can do it ourselves. We can build a task force and make a bill at 10-15 points and then send it to the government for an opinion. So there's a whole series of ways to improve what we're talking about right now. And once again what to say... works.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70929	Thank you. And final address, Mrs. Internship.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70930	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I thank you very much for today's debate and for the arguments you have pointed out and for your conclusions. So the cooperation you are talking about is also extremely important to us so that we can well represent the interests of all branches of government before the European Court of Human Rights. And as for the law, I will be free to say the text of the law already exists in the office and the office has already prepared it, only needs it by regular procedure through the resolution ministry which will, therefore, need to be directed by the right path so that it gets to you as soon as possible. Thank you very much, this is the first time, I apologize if we have made a procedural mistake during today my associate and I, and here we all want as much application of convention law in all Croatian bodies, in all branches of government, and the fewer cases against the state in front of the European Court of Human Rights, and then we won't need to pray for new people, new spaces and greater staff. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70931	Thank you, ma'am. Dear MPs and representatives, it is our honor to welcome Mr. Jerzy Wenderlich, Vice-President of the Fair of the Republic of Poland and the representative of the President of the Fair of the Republic of Poland with the delegation who are staying for an official visit to the Republic of Croatia. I'm closing the debate. [[Applause.]] We'll vote later. We'll stop working now. 12 o'clock is the vote. It's 11:50 a.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70932	Report by the Republic of Croatia before the European Court of Human Rights for 2012. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report by the Croatian representative before the European Court of Human Rights for 2012 is accepted." Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. The conclusion was accepted by 109 votes in favour. In accordance with the proposal of the Justice Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The opinions, objections and proposals tabled in the debate and in the report will be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for effective action by the competent authorities in the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights rulings". Who's in? Against? Restraint? Score. And we accepted this conclusion unanimously with 109 votes. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to prepare and submit to the Croatian Assembly a bill that would fully regulate the co-operation of all bodies whose work is related to the proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights and the execution of judgments and decisions of the Court". Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. And we accepted this conclusion unanimously by 109 votes. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, I am giving the following conclusion: "It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to provide the necessary resources in the national budget to create the necessary human, spatial and technical assumptions for the successful work of the Office of Representatives of the Republic of Croatia before the European Court of Human Rights". Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. The conclusion was accepted by 106 votes in favour and 2 abstentions. Here's a colleague of Shucker's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70933	Mr. Vice President, without intending to be against this conclusion, but I think you have now suggested one conclusion that is contrary to both our Rules of Procedure and something because the Parliament cannot make decisions on making financial commitments. You can laugh at your colleagues as much as you like, so we're up for a proposal, but we can't make decisions about making financial decisions to them in the government because it's the government that's proposing a budget, and we in the Parliament, according to our Rules of Procedure, if we say something has to be secured, then we have to say something that needs to be taken down. Therefore, I would ask that we stick to it when there is a debate on the budget then we can support it as an amendment, so that HDZ does not turn out to be against the draft conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70934	And this is how I'm going to rephrase the conclusion, and I'm going to rephrase it. ... Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70935	Each colleague shall be confronted with an amendment that must specify from which positions to be removed from. So the Parliament is not a draftr of the budget, the proponent of the budget is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We have adopted such a budget and cannot impose commitments on a new budget for unsecured funds. Therefore, we can agree here when there is a first debate on the budget to support this in the budget, but we cannot reach any conclusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-02-14-0.u70936	I think we could have commissioned the government to provide for the necessary resources in the proposal for a state budget. Okay. Let's move on with the vote.
