ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89234	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work. We will discuss today - The report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media and the Agency for Electronic Media for 2013 is submitted by the Agency for Electronic Media on the basis of Articles 66 and 67. The law on electronic media. You've received the material. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the report at the session. The opening report will be explained by the agency's director and council president, Mrs Mirjana Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89235	Madam Vice-President, honourable MPs and MPs. I wish you all a good morning, before you is the 2013 report of the Council for Electronic Media and the Agency for Electronic Media. The council's in '13. The year held 68 sessions and processed more than 1000 items from its section. In late July of '13. The Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Electronic Media entered into force in the year. These amendments introduced major changes related to the status of non-profit media service providers and electronic publications and non-profit producers of audio visual and radio programmes as well as a significant newspaper in the distribution of funds for the promotion of pluralism and diversity of electronic media. Following amendments to the law, the Council adopted the following sub-legislative acts in 2013. Regulation on the content and procedure of the notification of the intention to grant concessions for the provision of media services to television and radio, Regulation on the register of media service providers of electronic publications and non-profit manufacturers of audio visual and radio programmes, and Regulation on the fund for the promotion of pluralism and diversity of electronic media. Notwithstanding the amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media, the Council adopted a regulation in July 2013 on the level and manner of payment of compensation to reduce compensation paid to most media service providers in favour of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. When drawing up the Council's rules, the principle of proportionality was guided, the trend of reducing the difference in fees for different platforms, i.e. ground transmission, cable, Internet, satellite and European practices, which aims to stimulate production and growth by reducing various fees and obligations. I'm just saying, about the state budget, that reduction was about 200 percent, so from 7 million kuna to 2 million kuna. The minimum fee is 500 kuna, as far as the non-profits are concerned, they have 50% reduced the fee. And in '13. In the year, the Council adopted a total of 5 concessions, of which 3 concessions to carry out the activities of television, 2 concessions to carry out radio activities. It also made two decisions on the temporary withdrawal of the concession and two decisions on the permanent confiscation of concessions. 6 radio publishers gave up that same year’s concession due to the simply inability to continue production of the programme, i.e. with their obligations. The Council shall ensure supervision of the implementation of the programme principles and obligations provisions, so-called monitoring. Surveillance shall be carried out directly and indirectly. And in '13. 93,000 384 hours of television and 78,000 480 hours of radio program were recorded continuously. Following surveillance and infringements, the Council issued 40 warnings in 2013, 7 warnings, 1 criminal order and 2 indictments. Compared to the previous year, in 2012, the number of media service providers was increased on request and media service providers providing their services via satellite, cable, internet and other permitted transmission forms, so 7 permits were issued in 2013 and the total number of providers of these media services reached 32. During 2013, a total of 47 applications were received from providers of electronic publications for the register of providers of electronic publications. From that number, on the basis of the opinion of the Committee for Electronic Publications, the Council for Electronic Media has decided to register 24 providers of electronic publications, until 23 requests have been accepted. The attention is paid to the fund to promote pluralism and diversity of media, radio and television programmes in which competitions have the right to participate all broadcasters of television and radio at local and regional level and audio visual and radio programmes of non-profit television and radio publishers. In 2013, the Council for Electronic Media opened tenders under which 31 million kunas were awarded for 92 programmes. Of which, 15 million 266 thousand kuna TV publishers for 147 programs, and radio publishers 15 million 796 thousand kuna for 845 programs. In accordance with the transitional and final provisions of the Law on Changes and Supplements of the ZEM for non-profit media service providers authorised to carry out the activities of non-profit providers of electronic publications and non-profit producers of audiovisual and radio programmes in 2013, 3% of the funds of the Pluralism Facility amounting to 927 thousand kuna were allocated in 2014 following a public tender opened in January this year. Finally, I would like to add to the Council and the Electronic Media Agency in their daily activities actively cooperate with national regulators, public and state bodies. Cooperation is also active at international level, bilateral and multilateral. The Agency is a member of the European Association of National Regulators, so the EPRA in which the Presidency was re-elected last year as a member of the Council for Electronic Media and the Committee on Information and Media of the Council of Europe, the European Audiovisual Observatory. In accordance with the implementation of the Audiovisual Media Services Directive, the Council and the Agency are actively involved in the work of the General Administration of the European Commission responsible for audiovisual and media policy. So much for me. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89236	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first in line is on behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives of fellow Members Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89237	Madam Vice President, Mrs. Rakic, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. Today exclusively on the work of the Report on Electronic Media and the Agency for Electronic Media for 2013 but with reference to the Istrian opportunities set out in this report. So the foundation of democracy, I guess that's where we can all agree is free media. There are certainly free media in Istria, but they say not the most influential but the most valuable ones are funded exclusively in the service of political propaganda, and they know who, Miletic, Jakovcic, IDS, etc. It's about hiding the truth, not revealing the truth. And what is the biggest problem among other things, is that wage propaganda and the state of Croatia or pays the Council for Electronic Media. TV Nova from Pula gentlemen or Mrs. Rakic you pay, not you, but your institution with a million 4000 143 kuna and 8 limes. They're one of those TVs I'm talking about, they're hiding, I'm going to say open crime, they're covering up nepotism. Why? Because in one such criminal way, they're being financed. I'm saying this in front of the Croatian public and they can sue me for it but I'm afraid they won't. I say that in the Croatian Parliament and I can be sued, but I know it won't. I say that in a country that is an EU member and that is why I can be sued, but I guess it won't. And I'm saying it in a country that was killed by corruption, and media like these are very much involved in it. Once again, I will say that it is sad to say once again, on page 143 for these purposes you single out a million and 4 thousand kunas, that Kim Jong Un or... was a mother to what is happening and I will tell you quite frankly both Mr Josipovic and Mr Milanović and Mr Leko simply open your eyes and see what is going on down there. You finance not pluralism but simply choke that pluralism. You may be unaware of that, but it's our obligation to talk about it. TV Nova is exclusively a party note. Without independent media, the territory of Croatia, Istria does not matter becoming a empire of crime and banditism. So instead of giving money to spread pluralism, you're giving money to spread one brain. I personally think that money either has to be suspended or that money has to be returned. What this ownership structure looks like on page 117 means TV Nova d.o.o. Istrian County Pula 5%, town of Pula 8.5%, Italian Union 8.37%, town of Rovinj 8.08%, town of Poreč 0.83, Municipality of Brtonigla 0.11%), Kanfanar 0.13, city of Buje 0.45, municipality of St. Sunday 0.45 means we see whose TV is and then Denis Mikulić Pula 44.04%, Istria IT engineering 8.37%, Mladen Tomljanović Pula from HDZ 6.05%, Gabriela Popović Pula 1%, Ivan Blaznic Pula 8.37%, Simeone Ukotić Medulin 0.20%, Kristina Stepčić Reisman Labin 00.9%, Dario Benčić Pula 0.23, Sandro Čehić Rovinj 00.9% and Ratko Luka 0.09%. I'm not going to talk about the ownership structure of Istra's IT engineering, but if that's the case. What I also want to quote is on the side of your 4th report where, among other things, it is said that in 2013 VEM has made a total of 7 decisions to grant concessions for the performance of television and radio activities, of which 5 for the activity of television, 2 for the activity of radio, VEM has also made 2 decisions on temporary confiscation of concessions, 2 decisions on the permanent withdrawal of concessions for the pursuit of television activities, etc., etc. As compared to '12, the number of media service providers increased and I am not counting any further. You should be watching TV, television and radio amongst other things, I guess we should also follow their editorial policy. I guess their policy on the availability of their media to everyone, not just their employers. You have to reconsider not the concession, don't give God against it I'm always but simply the award of those millions and 4,000 kunas. Why? Because the censorship that was introduced, the inability to access the media that this team had seduced, I think that practice, that they inherited the practice of the 1930s from one, not at the time of the democratic country. If they're gonna sue me, I don't know, I can, but I doubt they will. I said just before that, that, at the request of the president of the IDS member of Mr Miletic's ruling coalition, censorship as Croatia certainly does not remember. So now we're going in a little bit of a row and how much TV Nova pays the city's population. 2008 220 thousand, 2009. 220, 2013 election year 281 thousand kuna, but what is interesting pays them in the same way as Pula, Monte Giro is a cemetery, Pula market, paid by Luka Pula, CASTRUM Pula, Pula HERYLANEA, Pula Promet, Plinara, Pula Parking Kastijun etc., so we certainly come to over a million kunas. They're not just paying for TV, they're paying for PRs. So let's say Manjguri Mr. Macan in 2008, the city pays 69,000 kuna, so when he's been stalking, it means election 2009. 154 thousand kuna, then 2010. Ninety-nine thousand kuna, then 2011. 145, '12. 195, 2013. 135 thousand kuna, but it's clear they're paid by both Pula and Tržnica. Imagine the city of Pula working with 5, 6 PR agencies, Althera, Manjgura, Avenue or how it is pronounced etc. I don't want to read them now. Well, they're paying for it, which I know is Pula HYRERNE. He still says, "The 2014 plan for the PR agencies is 50,000 kuna." Pula Transport, etc., cemetery, I can and understand it because it always takes a good communication with the Almighty. That's where I just justify them. But let's let this go now. I'll say it one more time, there's no greater crime than in Croatia. I, along the way, suggest and use this opportunity to change the name of USKOK, means Office for the Prevention of Corruption, but not in Istria. What is the Council for Electronic Media doing? Among other things, it makes a decision to withdraw concessions. And once again I'll say absolutely against it unless someone accidentally advocates fascism, if you were to advocate dictatorship, if you were to advocate hatred, exclusively, if you were to propagate violence, collapse of constitutional order, but if pulsar TV Nova gave no one but their own, that's why you simply reconsidered the grant of funds. This has to be kind of a message, no one has the right to public money if it doesn't give room to everyone. The snails also need to know what this television that only this city costs over a million kunas, meaning the city and the public companies associated companies simply do. Me and Mr. Mikulić and that's what I'm going to say, I guess we even have one correct relationship, but the man is being blackmailed. From who? From this city structure. There are worse media than these, but I am now, but since it's only about the Council of Electronic Media, I'm going to stick to it. And when I say that, be assured that more than half of that editorial is certainly aware of this practice and that she is simply sick of this practice. Croatian Radio Television, me and Croatian Radio Television have complained about something spoken for this speaker, but I have always claimed that HRT is the best Croatian television. That, regardless of the lawsuit, the most open television, they are also more frightened but at least they are not scarred and is the most accessible television. And it should also be fair and simply admitted. On page 11, I quote that at the end of July 2013, the Law amending and supplementing the Law to the electronic media and these amendments to the ZEM is in line with the criminal law, must've thought, the Law on concessions and the Law on Services. Why was I talking about the purpose of giving concessions? Because, therefore, the Pluralism Fund must worry about the exercise of citizens' rights to public information. Is this TV and it's probably still in Croatia? No, I don't. They're simply party television but they're funded by public money, and since they're party television, then they have to stay without that public money. Let them be party television but let them be financed not from public but from private or party funds. And once again, I will say, me and the director of that television, the dominant owner of 40, as I said, 44%, Mr. Mikulić has no problem but was blackmailed, he doesn't have his own self and he's just acting the way he is. Let him sue, but I'm guessing he won't. Now let's go to page 27 of this report. Total small-value support, well, these are future specific assets, it doesn't matter. But what I'm saying is that corruption, nepotism, media control throws Croatia back. Not only Istria, they throw every middle, they throw back the land as such, and you just have to take care of it. Finally, page 51 is said to have received a total of 1036 complaints from citizens, bodies, legal persons in 174 cases in 2013. Of these, 20 complaints were against 19 cases from 2012, 1016 complaints against 155 new cases under consideration in 2013. So let what I'm saying be simply a complaint from the citizens who have the privilege of speaking from the pay phone. Once again, it is yours to prevent such televisions, radios, portals that function as party media, from being publicly funded. And when we talk about the PRs, it's a job I'd say about the DORH or that SCOTT minus Istria. To some in Croatia because of this practice of the court, we saw the Fimi Media case, we saw what's happening now, but apparently somewhere it's all going. And that's why I suggest once again that the new name of "USKOK" is "USKOK" minus "Istra." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89238	Thank you, too. Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89239	Thank you very much. Comrade Cain, you were talking about media control. They say the state of the country is best viewed by commercials. If you see who is advertised and missing systematic analysis, four sectors take 90% of total advertising in Croatia, which are banks, telecommunications, that's trade.... And have you ever been able to read anything critical about media advertisers? No, I don't. But did you see those who produce something advertised, that the manufacturer of potatoes, mandarins, apples or tomatoes are advertised. So how will it come to pass when the kuna is a ransom price for him, from which they will pay. The manufacturer in Croatia participates with a tenth in the sale price. Imagine, the highest risk, the highest investment, and then that wine producer gets 12 kunas, his wine is sold in stores of 100 kuna, and in restaurants of 200 kuna. What are they going to advertise from? And it is easy to advertise these when I can transfer all that cost to the Croatian people, and the manufacturer has no one to switch to. In the function between production and consumption, the most important channel is distribution. There is no channel on the market, and there is no market for a higher price, and the result of such advertising and illiterating prices against them is the result of the cartel love that exists in Croatia in these specific sectors. I've never heard from the council or anyone critical of that part, just seeing the difference of advertising in the media in Croatia compared to Finland, Switzerland or Germany, so you'll see who's advertising and why he's advertising and buying his comfort, his reputation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89240	Thank you. Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89241	I agree, Mr. Representative, but only partially. That's right, these monopolies and nobody, but these monopolies aren't the only ones that answer. They advertise the same thing, which is over for not believing local self-government, communal companies are calling... I suppose the government or the ministry is being declared, and that practice needs to be put to an end. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] They pay PRs for millions of kunas. Only the city of Pula works with 5-6 PR agencies. Every municipality or city from Rovinj to Poreč, Labin has two more PR agencies. Not to talk about one little Gracias or Grožnjan, they have two PR agencies each. So what is it? That is why they are suing the former prime minister, which is why they are judging other people in the Republic of Croatia. I'm against this repression, but to simply end this banditism. Nothing to anyone, but precisely because of one such crime driven by the media because of drugs, because of nepotism, because of media freedoms stagnated by the Republic of Croatia, the parts of the Republic of Croatia are stagnating, and this practice needs to be put to an end. And that's why, among other things, I've apostrophe of a new pulse TV that works with 2 million kunas of public money as a party television. As a result, some in Croatia would have had a bad time, but where the BIA minus Istria works, nothing can happen to anyone and let it last, but our children will go even further abroad, individuals will get richer, drugs will be even more, and the country will only stagnate further and sink and collapse.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89242	Clear Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89243	Dear colleague Cain, you've just pronounced a local TV station like no one has ever done before. You rephrase it... a communal company that you could think of. And in that part of your speech when you were talking about censorship and control, I felt like you were talking about HRT. Then you finally said HRT was the best in the matter. Then you mentioned that this local station uses 2 million kunas of public money. I remind you that HRT spends billions and 300 million kunas of public money. Take a look at the complete analysis of the Reporter without borders, see the report on journalistic freedoms in Croatia, and you will see that on all the scales we fall precisely because you say HRT is free and without censorship. For two years we haven't had a single show where they could face opinions of different, let's say, political options. Try to come as an opposition politician on any show, say HRT three, and discuss some problem in society. No way. Editors and reporters like pears fall. Over 40 were changed when the Law on Croatian Radio Television changed. But aside from that. But since you've raised that question. After all, we are talking about a Council report here. So to use it to advertise a local TV station, you're actually the best of their PR. You've mentioned them so many times along with every utility company, I don't know, and you're on some payroll about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89244	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89245	Am I on the payroll? No, I didn't. Don't worry. I'll probably mention them in the replica again. But it is not true that you are not present every morning from 7.30 to 8.00 on Croatian Radio or someone from your club or someone from your party or there at 10 o'clock on the next or in the Central Diaries or in other information shows. If someone should be making noises over the Croatian Radio, then maybe I should be because they sued me for a sentence spoken for damages to this speaker, that almost every show on HRT can be bought. They were looking for about 140,000 kuna for mental pain. I don't know what kind of mental pain cameras and Croatian broadcasting can take, but let's let it go. I will say again, I believe that Croatian broadcasting is like – the best, the most open, the most accessible, still the most democratic television. But the fact is, the fact is, regardless of your makeup, that a billion and 300 million kunas of public money are simply directed towards television on the stand. I don't think I intended to advertise anyone, but to change one practice first. I would also like different from these billions and 300 million kuna to be distributed or redistributed in Croatia, to go more towards local television and simply to those or radios or some other or portals stop being party media, because this practice only throws the country back.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89246	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89247	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Cain, I don't understand these lies of yours or yours for attitudes. Oh, no? Because you call everything out, you attack everyone, and then you end up supporting the report. You will also support this report. Maybe that's why they don't want you on those TVs anymore, on radio stations. Maybe as a politician you lost a part of the credibility you had until 2011 because simply, I can't interpret it any other way. Because I remember that TV news and by 2011, you were there all the time, you were on TV all the time. Yeah, yeah, you and all those IDS guys. I remember, because we see it the same way, we can catch it on the islands. And then you didn't mind. I don't remember you arguing about attacking here. Now we're in trouble. You voted for IDS, you entered the Parliament, you wanted to be an independent representative. You've become an independent agent and now you're attacking that IDS. You voted for Jakovic to enter the European Parliament. You're calling it space here yesterday. You're calling it today. Maybe that's where I tell you the basic problems. Well, I don't think this assembly of ours should be a personal accounting polygon because someone didn't go as they wanted, and you served it very well for 20 years. That's true, and I don't think it's a good idea for us to discuss this agency this way, because what she can do. To order TV news to put Mr. Cain on TV every night, to have everyone in Istria watch him and everyone in Istria listen to him? I don't think it's an agency assignment. That's why I don't understand why you're attacking Istria like this. I think you've created a completely wrong picture of Istria with your discussions. I have a lot of friends and relatives there and people are just wondering what happened to our Damir Caine in this term. He was the best protector of that space, and now he's really talking about this space, he's really talking about it in a negative way. I don't think you're going to achieve what you want with great popularity and re-entry, and I'm afraid that after these experiences, you've been on the list, on a common list to enter the Parliament. Now I guess you'll be on that same list again and you'll all be voting for that list together. There's a loss of credibility right there. I don't think that's necessary in this kind of debate, especially not this agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89248	Damir Cain, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89249	The space doesn't matter if it's about Istria, whether it's about your Rab or whether it's about Croatia you can only protect yourself with the truth, only with the truth. I think I spoke yesterday and today and tomorrow just to tell the truth, nothing more, nothing less. I remember you were on the list of Jadranka Kosor, too, so you turned your back on Mrs. Jadranki Kosor. Easy to turn your back, you took her chair in the second or third row. Yes, you served Jadranka Kosor well. But as soon as she fell into party shame, you forgot about Jadranka Kosor, you took her chair. And interestingly, I'm the only one who's objecting to a former party engagement. No one mentions it to Bandic or Kosor, or I don't know Lesara or Mrs. Holly, or I don't know who else. I'll line up here with me or someone on the fifth. Except for me. But no matter what I'm talking about, there's only one way to fight the truth. And if you're really interested in how long I've been on that before 2011, I've probably never been, maybe never, maybe once, I've been twice, maybe I've been. But I'm sure in the last two, three years I've never been. ... Until 2011, almost never. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89250	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourists – Labour parties Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89251	Dear vice president, respected principal, respected colleagues. We have a report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media and the Agency for Electronic Media for 2013. Well, just a report I believe everyone will agree that it's thoroughly written, that whoever had the will, the desire to read out of it a lot. I personally have to admit that I've practically had a chance to learn from this report, learn something that as an ordinary citizen, a viewer, a user of media, electronic media services, I certainly didn't know. But let's just say I'm looking forward to this Pluralism and diversity fund of electronic media. It is taxed here, which is why everything can be withdrawn from that fund, or allocated from that fund, and also why I can't. I have to admit that I didn't go into some deeper analysis to see if there could possibly be room for a better approach, or a better quality way, but in any case, it's good that there's something like that and it works. I'd rather rely on something that's also tied to the council and the agency, and it happened now a few days ago. Well, we've all had a chance to read the completed 7th days of electronic media, the difficult situation, the media finding has been reduced by as many as 3,000 journalists and other media employees since the start of the crisis, from 12 500 to 9 500 thousand employees. The finding of the situation in local media is becoming increasingly difficult, incomes and the number of employees fall from month to month, and if this trend continues, it will have to go to further cost cuts as well as employees' salaries. I took the liberty of contacting local media reporters with me, I must admit that I remained shocked with both the level of reception and the level of rights. If there's a further reduction in their rights here, right, if it goes to cost cuts then that reduction will primarily reach for a reduction in their salaries. I'm asking myself how is that even possible? On the other hand, we have a situation where, under the law, the council and the agency are financed among other incomes derived from these local media. Now I'm just such a layman, uninformed, asking a question to you but also to all of us, did I not, in the report, find this, this information, what are the salaries in the agency, or if you want in the work council that's being financed from local media that we have cases that are in crisis every day, that they're moaning over themselves and we're all over them together. If there are no and no local media, then we can freely say that it is in some way asphyxiation and freedom of the media as well as democracy in general. I have to ask another question that has been raised in the media quite a while, and I think the Croatian public deserves an answer to that question. It is the case of Mrs Gordana Simonovic, member of the Governing Council of the Croatian news agency HINA and members of the Council for Electronic Media. I know that the Committee for Conflict of Interest, President of the Commission Dalia Oreshkovic, signed an opinion stating the lady in the conflict of interest. But I've never found anywhere in the media, I've never gotten any information that's been going on? The fact is that this opinion calls on the acting officer, Mrs Gordana Simonovic, to resolve the situation of simultaneous conduct of two public duties within 15 days of receiving this opinion. I think the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian public, have the right to know the truth whether this issue is resolved, is not resolved, in which way it is resolved. We could have read some information that certain court disputes were launched, but it's interesting that we haven't had the same discussion in this House about certain conflicts of interest and the position of politicians and the full rights of the public, the media calls these same politicians, which is why they are in conflict of interest, which is why some say they didn't know about some of their obligations, and here we have a solution, or an opinion where the Committee of Conflict of Interest finds something and we don't have feedback about what the reaction is. As for media freedom itself, there is a colleague, Maric, at one point in the replica, pointed out that there are no critical announcements about advertisers. Oh, not that there's no critical, there's no one. They're like ghosts, they're not written positively or negatively. It's some gray... in which there isn't, people are talking about journalistic... afraid to think they'd react, to write something because there's no need for censorship anymore, there's a rule of auto-censorship. I know the editorial policy of my house, I know what I want to write, what's a fact, what we all know, that I can't even try to offer it to the editor in my mind, let alone to be published somewhere. So, I absolutely agree with what you said, this is a complete addition. Not that there are no critical statements about them, but there are none. The status of journalists, that's what it is, that's where I agree with my colleague Caine saying there's no freedom of the media if there's no freedom of the press, but excessive liberalisation of everything, and it's put us in a position to have two categories of journalists, except for those who are lucky, so they're still in a constant working relationship, but they're in a rather questionable state, too, but we have a situation that they have so-called. The part-timers and the RPOs. I have to admit that when I heard about the term RPO, I didn't know what it meant at first, so they explained to me that it was a regular taxpayer. And now we expect freedom of the media, we expect some quality of information transfer, means not to create information,... under quotes to create information, but to transfer information objectively. You have journalists, media workers who know they have to do something, they have to publish something, and they know how to publish it. No need for censorship, no need for any editor to suggest something to him, to guide him in what way he must do it. He knows that because of his existence he must write that black is white. I may have gone a little too far in the caricinating, but it's not that far from the truth. And as long as we are in this country under the label of opening the market, liberalisation, freedom of the market, as far as we must be aware that we are destroying those fundamental values, that solidarity, not only in this branch, but general solidarity is simply something that becomes an unknown concept, which becomes part of the past, something that some nostalgists, romantics talk about, but without returning some old real values, I'm afraid that we will not, as a state, but God or freedom of the media will never again come to a level that is expected of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89252	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89253	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Novak, you said by reading this report, I learned some things so you mentioned a pluralism fund and I actually want to look back at it, although the Council for Electronic Media has also called for a tender, asking for information from those 174 taxpayers, 40 of them have not provided data. One such institution is actually the State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia who has not supplied the data. And what does that actually mean? It says that people who need to think and work on it don't do their job. It says that people who were supposed to apply it either didn't know it or didn't want to. Why? And they should have. They were supposed to because you know that Goran Radman and HRT have abolished all correspondence from BiH. After the BiH census, we saw that there are 556 thousand Croats who deserve definitely timely information, who deserve emissions from that area, which are not actually on HRT anymore. And these funds of the fund were actually an opportunity for the State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia to apply certain funds that could be used in another way, in a way that other electronic media can actually provide emissions, can advertise and provide the necessary information for the Croats in BiH which they did not, of course. These funds could definitely be used to inform people this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89254	Young Novak, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89255	Thank you very much. I told my colleague at first that unfortunately I didn't get too far into this part of the pluralism fund, but you mentioned here that some or not because they didn't know how to answer or aren't capable. Now I'm not getting into it, you're probably talking based on some experience, based on some knowledge you have. But what you mentioned next in HRT correspondence, these same correspondences not only abolished in BiH what you mentioned, have been abolished throughout Croatia. And now you have a situation that's really absurd, a man comes to regret those journalists who come at the same time fixing the camera please step back a bit because he can't give you a microphone at the same time, I mean it's a shame you're doing. We probably went by some words by some people from that house from one extreme, that there were 6 or 7 people on the team to the other extreme that one man was practically everything. Say I come from Sisak, from Sisak-Moslavina County means a county that is quite territorially large and now has to visit all parts of that county and at the same time is there and a cameraman, and a journalist and I don't know what goes on in that part. So I'm not really sure if it is, it's actually on the trail of what I was saying about where this profession is going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89256	Dragutin Lesar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89257	Col. Novak, you have apostrophe of the Pluralism and Variety Fund, according to the regulation of the use of these funds, one of the... eight types of national minorities information, sport, education this is now the fourth time I have appealed, and I believe that I will be sure that Mrs. Rakic will understand why, it is simply amazing that no specific emissions for consumer rights are foreseen as part of the purpose of this fund, one of the most numerous groups at risk every day and patients' rights. So these are two areas of social life where citizens of the Republic of Croatia meet daily with a huge number of concerns, problems, disagreements and local media could be an extraordinary service if these two areas and these two areas were specifically encouraged to deal with, if there are any preconditions in order to make such a thing. As important as this is in terms of protecting human rights as a whole, I don't have to warn anyone, so please kindly see the possibility of changing the new tender as soon as possible for these two areas of social interest to be covered. And secondly, we see that the government is dealing with a deep analysis of the budget of how to save. Your report shows that government authorities spent 24 million kunas last year on advertising in local media, which is a quarter of the law they have to deploy, which means that in the last year, public advertising authorities spent around 96 million kunas. So I'd like one of those deep analysis groups to analyze the consumption of that 96 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89258	Thank you. A young Novak response to the replica. But come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89259	Okay, you're right. Thank you very much for the opportunity to respond, I apologize. Well, you mentioned to your colleague, Lesar, the Fund for pluralism and consumer rights and patients' rights not to be included in electronic media at all. But I have to admit, I hope no one will take this as lobbying, yesterday the Information Committee had an interview with 14 candidates. One of the candidates really gave us a real education and I thank you for that, it's about someone, I'm not going to name him, a long-time HRT worker who just suggested this part by being a little bit more comprehensive and it's exactly a lot more time available there, but who pointed to the quality of the information program, which pointed to the work of the manager, which pointed to some unnecessary inclination of those leaders to some exhibitionism, especially in those main most visible informative shows. So I think and hope and my personal opinion is that this person will continue to be in the Council for Electronic Media and that, in cooperation, you can do one and the other and third things to improve the quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89260	Boris Blazekovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89261	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Novak, I would, in part, agree that there is a certain... censorship, but I think most journalists have been slightly offended and underestimated by this. I think that, regardless of the overall state of society and the overall state of the media, which we all need to help together, Croatia has extremely high-quality and responsible journalists who are not afraid to talk about anything and who are talking about relevant topics for this country. That's one thing. And secondly, I would say, you mentioned the free market and the negative context, I would just like to remind you that the free market has created today's Western civilization as it is. In this Western civilization, citizens live in the highest quality possible way in the world. And it created a free market and it can be experientialally proven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89262	Young recruit, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89263	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Blažekovic, I didn't speak my impressions, I was saying what they concluded at the professional gatherings just the people of that profession, from that profession. A couple of exceptions that have been condemned to go one step further have had, we have examples of it, they had such discomfort with the system, with a system where they work that probably we all know through the media about it, we're all familiar so we don't see the need to go case by case mention. And as for these freedoms as you speak, the free market. Yes, we see and Spain is part of it and Greece is part of it. These freedoms, the free market unfortunately brought down those real values of moral value. And this race for material and money has destroyed all those values that existed before and that are real values and this will eventually come to an end. Believe me.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89264	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the DC, the New Wave and the People's Party Reformist colleague Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89265	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Mrs. Rakic. This is indeed a comprehensive report that our club will absolutely support. However, many trends can also be read from this. When it comes to the fact that the council has made a total of 7 decisions on concessions to carry out the activities of television and radio, I would be interested and I believe how many of these council decisions have been challenged in the Administrative Court? Or how many of them have the Administrative Court already abolished and returned to you for retrial and how easily did he reject the complainant's proposals? Because it simply seems to me that such a trend should be seen and present in the report. It is precisely for the reason that we see for ourselves how much your decisions are in some way confirmed, correct and undeniable. I'm saying this because in the past year, council decisions have been very often challenged when it comes to awarding concessions. Such candidates for concessions would end up in the Administrative Court, go through long-term administrative proceedings, council decisions would be lifted, the ruling of the Administrative Court would restore them to the beginning and then, in the meantime, practically life went on, the new media became operational, and such a potential candidate for the concessionaire would have suffered major damages. So for these reasons, I am absolutely interested in this very confirmation of the council's decision. Otherwise this report of yours practically shows a picture of the situation in our media that is absolutely burdened by a difficult economic situation. And I would say that at this point, he's making problems for freedom of the Croatian media, regardless of what it's about, is concentration and monopoly, gathering large corporations and collapses of the advertising industry, all because of the crisis, the end of the traditional, especially printed media that are absolutely now in the biggest crisis and in some way the mistrust of citizens in the media. When it comes to this mistrust of citizens in the media, I noticed one of your remarks in this report that it's a good thing that one medium is, that I don't name it now, I've abolished citizens' comments. I don't think citizens' comments absolutely below the media should be lifted, they are, they represent a kind of freedom of expression, the voice of citizens is good to hear regardless of what there are also ordered to write comments per order but it is one kind of freedom of expression. No matter what, I don't think it's necessary to judge and not to support and encourage those who would end citizens' comments but rather encourage them in the sense that the media itself is being organised and simply filtered in some way by all those messages of hate speech that are more and more and more and that is evident in this report of yours, inappropriate statements, but I think citizens' comments should be released in any case. What I might be doing in your report again is not enough, it's not represented at all, and I think it would be interesting to see what happens to those media that you give notices to and they practically continue on their own. What are further steps, how many are there, how many are the media you've given the reminders that haven't responded to your warnings? There are some portals that have really been going wild in the last few years about the spread of hate speech, the spread of impatience, and we see that you've given them warnings, but the story continues, so I'd like to hear your comment in that sense. Also, it wouldn't be bad to set up a mechanism. You have media that absolutely do not respond to court decisions or judgments on the publication of judgments concerning slander or the spread of false information or some other stuff from the media domain, from the domain of the Media Act. They simply do not want to publish judgments or decisions by the competent authorities. So the question arises, do you even have an overview of how many such media media are, how you act on it because simply such things are not represented in this report. So I suggest that for the next report you propose and simply follow these suggestions and put in such an analysis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89266	Thank you. On behalf of the club of independent representative Jadranka Kosor and HGS colleague Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89267	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Director with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. I'll repeat from this report what Mrs. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt just said, it's clear that it's comprehensive, that it's well-conceived, well done, but I'd like to add something else that here from the report sees what the wealth is, to use the expression from the report itself, the media service provider. This is visible on page 4. So from HRT, out of 4 publishers when it comes to state-level television, then from local-level publishers, but also portals, so the wealth of the media, and in that sense, we certainly don't have to be dissatisfied. If it's hard in the media, it's a fact, especially for locals, it's a fact that it's hard to be a journalist today, it's just the same fact, but the media, of course, share the fate of the whole society, the economic crisis, and it's visible in all segments of media work. However, this should not in any way or in any way affect what is the basis of a journalistic profession, which is timely, correct, true, true and certainly in no way manipulative reporting. We see here that last year's council has called several times a public tender. I am also interested in how many concessions were called and awarded, and I am also interested in how many of these decisions have been contested or not challenged, how many times they have been confirmed if they have been contested. This is important to further strengthen the credibility of this report. Here the report shows how many times concessions have been taken away, we see permanent and temporary. We've heard that the defendant's proposals have been raised. There's something about the ownership structure. The changes in the ownership structure are particularly stressed here, and I would like to put some emphasis on that in this debate. Do we have colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, in the Croatian Parliament a real picture of the real, true ownership structure in Croatian media? My opinion is we don't have any. In some ways, I have made it possible for me to still think that in 2011, at the National Security Council meeting where the topic was just ownership rights and the real ownership structure in Croatian media, especially some, and I think that even today nothing has changed, nothing particularly happened then. But I think the answer to the question about who are the real and real media owners in Croatia to the of course portals, and especially at some point in the portal in Croatia lies the key to many questions. So I propose that the Council in future work, in particular, commit itself to this, of course within the framework of its powers and within the framework of the laws, or within the framework of the regulations. Some portals, of course, and we do not need to be open-minded, become political media that are being instructed, that is to be conducted and formed and formatted in political circles. It's absolutely clear and it's the same if it is, and it is, then of course we need to know who owns the actual individual medium, I repeat the portal in particular. In this report, I found many comparisons with laws, even conventions. It's about young people, the council has been particularly monitoring how programs are coordinated with all the documents that are related to young people, to children, that's good. But there's no compliance, at least I didn't find a radio and television program with the Law on Gender Equality. It may seem totally banal at this point, but it's not. Try to analyze Croatian TV programs, Croatian radio stations especially in those programmes where guests participate. The guest is absolutely too little, i.e. the relationship between men and women, interlocutors and controversies is to the harm of women, and the Law on Gender Equality is to say something about it. We've got a good one, a nice one. I'm guessing it's not a review, and it can't be a review of everything that's been established in the past year, as far as insult and hate speech are concerned. I'm sure it's getting bigger and bigger. This is something that we should particularly deal with, of course, by keeping an eye on the independence of the media, about the possibility that readers, that citizens, that media users have a huge and large space to express their opinion. However, no lies, no inventions, no insinuation and no insult in any way. We haven't found the answer to that question, there are no real mechanisms. Especially on some portals, we witness incredible inadmissible and inconceivable insults, experiences, even dead people. And that was what we witnessed at times. That's something we need to find the answer to, and we have to say a lot. Out of comment often it's really hating, but I repeat once again what's much, much, much harder because it can't be washed in any way are lies. And anyone who's been victimized in any way by such lies that have been told and who are then persecuted I know that the damage that has been done is irreparable and it can't be removed in any way. Here are examples of council proceedings based on surveillance. However, I am also asking the question since the Council has issued some measures such as a warning, such as a warning, an indictment proposal, a warning, is most often a warning. So the warning measure is most common. However, we are witnessing, since examples are listed here, concrete examples of concrete portals, which, for example, have been warned by the Council, i.e. a warning. But we are now witnessing in 2014 that nothing has changed in particular. Therefore, on those same portals which the Council states have been warned or warned nothing has changed in particular. It remains a practice of insult is still a practice of lying, so I am interested and I assume that Mrs. Director will be able to respond to what the Council can, what are the Council's mechanisms in such cases. And maybe, maybe we're on the verge of amending some regulations if it's necessary, then we can open the debate. And for the end, just one more thought. We are often faced as politicians and politicians with the right to a huge dissatisfaction of citizens because of the fact that the politicians against whom investigations are being conducted, who are being tried, who have been convicted in the first degree are still active in political life still have a chance to run and to choose and be elected and to win elections, etc. I agree with the citizens' request that we try to regulate it legally because we react from case to case. And of course we react in this way that since we are truly divided society, we protect our own, we resort to a pillar of shame by others and so on in a circle. However, if this applies, if the public rightly responds to politicians then as public figures affecting life in the Republic of Croatia, then I think that the same criterion should apply to those who also have an impact on public opinion, which affects the direction in which society will move because they have powerful tools or weapons, and that is the media especially electronic media. So journalists and editors of the same rules should apply then to journalists and editors, public figures on the public scene as well as politicians. So those who are under investigation, those who are suspects, those who are convicted, they should then share the same fate that I repeat to citizens rightly seek for politicians. Because the publicly spoken word, publicly spoken support or publicly pronounced judgment has an immeasurable value and immeasurable influence, immeasurable echoes, and ultimately immeasurable effects. We will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89268	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Sunčana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89269	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam President of the Council, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I want to make a clear distinction between this report that we are talking about today. Therefore, we are talking about the Report of the Electronic Media Council and the Electronic Media Agency, and we are not talking about the HRT Programme Council or the HRT Supervisory Board. Although the Council, i.e. the agency regulator and public service, last year when we talk about the funds of the Pluralism Fund, had a little more than 30 million kuna distributed to 19 publishers in the television programme, so more than 15 million and 125 radio publishers with almost 16 million kuna while for new stakeholders of these funds, therefore, non-profit media service providers or electronic publications were allocated 680 thousand for them and 11 and 4 non-profit producers of audiovisual or radio programmes 300 thousand kuna. Finally, on December 31st last year, the register, so the new register, included 89 electronic publications with a big comment from the other publishers, so the fund's users so far, and these are radio and TV stations, that they do not have clear criteria on ownership structure such as radio and television publishers. So, radio and television publishers, what some colleagues here have completely misstated, have to report to the OIB the ownership structure, and unless they do, they can't even ask for funds from the fund. So it's very clear what's besides that and in the report on who's in what ratio and since the owner of radio or TV becomes, we're talking about local level. As far as television is concerned, there used to be 21, there are 19 of them today. Six televisions have passed or are under way. Before the crisis there were almost 550 employees on local television, today there are 400. Over 20% of jobs are lost. Before the crisis in Croatia, there were 12 500 media employees, today 9500. Of which on TV and radio stations 5800, at locals around 2000. So, just over 20% of the total media employees. For those 2,000 employees at the locals, state aid is 3% of the subscription, that's what HRT sets out in the fund, so something over 30 million kuna. National commercial televisions, therefore, do not have state support, but what is important to say for their 500 employees the switch to digital broadcasting reduces the cost of broadcasting by one programme by 20 million. In an analogue of around 27 million per programme per year, today 7 million per programme per year. Local televisions have increased the cost of digital broadcasting from a million, 700 thousand kuna per year to 6,5 million kuna per year. So they found themselves in really big trouble. What is being said from year to year, even here in the Parliament, is the sub-capacitation of councils in the monitoring sector because, regardless of what several new people are involved, it is obviously insufficient because we are aware and we see the violation of the Law on Electronic Media from day to day. At EU level, a group of regulators have been formed, among other things, asking some important burning questions, and one of them is hate speech, hate speech in electronic publications. First of all, he is based on ideological, regional, national, religious belongings. The use and promotion of hate speech becomes a daily phenomenon on leading, above all, electronic publications. First of all, it is visible from the commentary, something that has already been said by colleagues. It gives an ugly picture of the society we live in. We therefore feel that it is unacceptable not to strengthen the monitoring service in order to sanction violations of the law in time and to sanction service providers because they are the ones who are actually managing the comments and they are the ones who will direct or not speak hate. The hate speech, don't forget, can have serious social consequences. Unless it responds to hate, it is a completely false message that such and frequent reactions are acceptable and that it is something that is common. If you look at the comments today, you will surely find at least three of these, minimally. One of our portals that one of the three most read estimates is that popularly called "heitation" on each portal is over 90%. I think that the council should also be concerned because we, too, have been exposed to any insults, and that usually happens when we, for example, don't work for a week or two, so we are exposed absolutely not only to ourselves, if you want a hate speech at national level, you want to disrespect children's rights and so forth. Obviously, in our opinion, the right business decision to invest surplus resources was lacking because it is not clear why at the end of the year there remained an excess of 2.5 million kunas standing on the account and were not spent, for example, to strengthen agency capacities and for education which is clearly necessary. I'll just say a few words about what happened on the 7th day of the electronic media where a long-published Media Strategy was to be presented, even in the invitation to address the Minister of Culture and to talk about the Media Strategy that the media is eager to expect, but then it was found that actually the Media Strategy does not exist at all. And in a text that doesn't exist at all, which the journalists managed to see and which, by the way, was presented by the lady who was employed by the Ministry of Culture and who, by the way, was told by the impression of a portal and who, by the way, was told by the same State Support Fund, was given the money, so then they already asked their colleagues, so who's crazy? Therefore, among other things, media non-existent policy required television and radio stations to clearly publish ownership control, i.e. to clearly state who their owners were. It is obvious that there is absolutely no knowledge of the work of the councils and agencies at all because they are the only ones in Croatia, I repeat, who publish their ownership structure every year to the level of owners, owners, private persons and the OIB. When the same writer of non-existent media policy knows, of the third sector which is very problematic, then they will, they said, support it. They also referred to what the non-existent media policy has written, among other things, and this is for example that local units of self-government, municipalities, cities and counties have been paying funds for local media services so far in so far. the central government fund. The funds will then be distributed, and that will make one worse. They say so much about decentralisation and so much about reducing control, or affecting the media. The adoption of the proposed, there was a lot of what was said which was completely absurd and I think at that point the minister concluded all of this to be declared non-existent because it would be the biggest disaster that would happen to the media sector. Therefore, the adoption of the proposed would affect the years followed by the shutting down of local media and further releases in the media, all with the aim of increasing the number of media living from state support. As regards the 3rd sector, which I have mentioned and it is important, every medium is important, it is important for democracy and it is important for the diversity of opinions, but the users of state aid and so on, and the third sector, for them to establish financial, staff, content and ownership obligations, as are also prescribed for current state support users, for additional support users to provide additional resources. There was an interesting proposal, which is that the current 3% of the HRT separation is increasing to 5%. So, that joint conclusion was all the participants... of the electronic media. In addition, we are warning for the third year in a row that the criminal provisions for legal persons and responsible persons who do not comply with the provisions of Article 33 should be put in place urgently. The law on electronic media or does not provide a report on the consumption. What's this about? The advertising of public administration bodies and other beneficiaries of budgetary resources under the law shall be at least 15% of the annual amount of promotion intended for local TV and radio stations. They are obliged to submit a report of a total of 174 obligors pursuant to Article 33, no data have been provided by 40. Among other things, colleagues and colleagues, Ministry of Culture, Resolution Ministry, Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, Ministry of Tourism, Ministry of Environment and Nature, Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. What are we talking about? The bodies of the public authorities do not comply with the laws of the Republic of Croatia and should be made clear. As far as unresolved problems are concerned, for example local television, these are still broadcasting fees, reduction of frequency fees, I hope we have helped modestly here too because we all supported it in last year's report. So, we all need to work together to make local TV and radios stay alive because they're actually the ones who transmit local information. Very clearly, 80% of people listen to radio in their local environment, 70% of people in this country have a positive view of local radio stations or television stations. What they're wondering, isn't... local and TV becoming in the same country? Didn't the crisis hit local TV and radio stations? Do they deserve someone in this country to try to stop them from shutting down? Maybe it's an official assessment that this is okay, maybe you don't know who should do it because the Resord Ministry obviously doesn't know, maybe it doesn't want to do it or, which is the worst, and obviously it is, maybe it doesn't know how to do it. So, commitment to the local community, identity, that's what local media is doing. The media, with a national concession, only 30 of their programmes are dedicated to local information, of course, on their information shows, above all because the most resources are allocated to them, are dedicated to all topics of more space and, in particular, as regards commercial television, that is their right. The request is therefore for local TV and radio stations not to be seen in the context of political influence but to be seen in the context of an active media policy maker and media freedom in the Republic of Croatia. They're not asking for help, they're asking for equalization of business conditions with a business environment. I'll remind you equally only after the printed media, some, reduced VAT, left 300 million kuna a year, but we don't see, unfortunately, there's also some big progress. Equally, as far as the structure is concerned, educationally above all, we don't see those journalists doing anything about it. When we talk about the structure of local media, the fact is, unfortunately, that there are fewer and fewer employees, that these people don't have the opportunity to invest through this money from the fund in their education and the fact is, what everyone is looking at, and that is the product, so television or radio program, the less and less people have to work for an increasing salary. It's not because the publishers would want it that way, it's just the circumstances. My colleagues and colleagues, I say one more time. Why didn't the council, or the agency, become strong? There is a surplus of funds left, we do not know what will be spent on, we have a serious remark again on the bodies of public authorities, i.e. the authorities of the state administration who are deaf to the laws of the Republic and I call on you together, all of us to consider not only this in the context of the report, but all the problems that are plagued by local TV and radio stations, to allow them to no longer be shut down, that they do not have to give up concessions for a simple reason because they no longer have money and that we help them. Local media is important for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89270	Clear Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89271	Dear fellow Glavak, I think I agree with your presentation on behalf of the HDZ Club, I would just like to remind you of what you mentioned about media policy or media strategy. The fact is, no matter what the minister said two days ago, she practically pulled her out of circulation and said that it was a single programme that is essayist nature and that needs to be corrected a lot, the fact is that without that media strategy we changed and made changes and complemented the entire set of media laws from the portfolio of the Ministry of Culture. At the same time, we must say that the financing of the third sector you mentioned is being withdrawn from two sources. So there is a direct budgetary basis and in the portfolio of the Ministry of Culture there is a special budget for financing so-called "Courtesy of Culture". non-profit media, there is no such case in Europe anywhere that it is directly funded in this way from the Ministry of Culture and at the same time exists from the Media pluralism Fund, which is in itself alarming. Especially alarming if you are already going to finance from this Fund for pluralism of the Council for Electronic Media, then you should reduce this... item. We are witnessing that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is now seeking and establishing expert CSI teams seeking opportunities to save in the budget. I hope they'll be educated enough to see things like this happening in front of their noses or they'll be staring at it like they've been staring at it so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89272	The Sun Glavak response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89273	Thank you very much. You're right, mesic. We warned about that when the law was amended and we said it wasn't good. In addition, I'll remind only they don't have the same criteria, they don't have a clear ownership structure, so that's the problem. What has been arranged for years has been warned in the television sector and worked when we talk about locals, which is that we clearly wanted to see the ownership structure. I'm not talking about the ownership structure of printed media or media with national concessions right now except public television. But what is worrying, as one can say, is that it will present a media strategy or media policy, whatever it is called, to announce this at the most important event for electronic media in the country and there to say forgive people but it doesn't really exist and forgive maybe it was what was on the face or published in the news where it came out in the below it isn't. So I ask you what we're talking about? So let the Ministry of Culture finally decide whether it has a media strategy or has no media strategy. Apparently she's not here. So they founded a special group that deals with the media, and a person who works in this special media group gets money directly from the fund. So maybe that's the question for the council and in what sense it's about controlling who gets the money or doesn't get in accordance with the proposition that's strictly prescribed and which should be strictly controlled. So no one is against the third sector, no one is against the non-profit media, but they must be subject to the same rules as everyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89274	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, colleague of Pupovac just a moment. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89275	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleagues, I mean, with the right to criminal responsibility of legal persons, and you think it's up to you to complete the law in that sense. However, under the existing law on the criminal liability of legal persons who comply with the Penal Code, so also for this kind of crime of spreading hate speech, spreading hate and such crimes are also being prosecuted by official duty. And what is important to point out in this context is the possibility of saying security measures and even a precautionary measure, including banning certain business activities, banning the acquisition of permits, concessions, so all that matters and these topics that we are talking about today. I am taking this opportunity, and I think you will agree, that all those who face the responsibility of any level and even criminal responsibilities say that in such a way, and especially the owners of these media, often say that this violates freedom of action, freedom of speech. It is necessary to repeat once again that hate speech, the spread of hate, has nothing to do with freedom of speech. It's the same as a criminal organization they say you're violating my freedom of organization, it's the same level.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89276	The Sun Glavak response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89277	My colleague Antičević, we're on the same track, you said right. So the council has mechanisms, I agree, you're talking about one segment. There are several mechanisms that can be used. But once again, I'm going to say, there's no money left, the council doesn't have the capacity to monitor every day you know they have thousands of programs, so there's just not enough people to do it, and the council is bound to do it by law, so that's what I'm talking about. And of course you're right that in some way it becomes quite normal for such comments to remain on the portals regardless of what they very clearly point out and all of these legal provisions that are not allowed and against what they are. But as administrators, they still let something like that stay there. The problem of hate speech is not just to solve the problem of hate speech, but not just by cuts or sanctions. We need to develop standards of democratic debate, whether money from the council can be used, for example, for education. I think he can, there's no obstacle. So that's one of our proposals. I don't understand, Mrs. Rakic will probably eventually answer why she didn't strengthen the monitoring exactly in this part of which you're talking about, not just the protection of minors, whether HTV was punished or not, or just got a warning because he forgot to broadcast the information program so they didn't have any news. So it's not just that, there's a whole series of parameters that they monitor in accordance with the legal provisions. I think that we should look in this direction and that the council should be strengthened above all its capacity.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89278	A colleague, Milorad Pupovac, on behalf of the SDSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89279	Dear Madam Vice President, the Honorable President of the Council for Electronic Media, Honorable colleagues and colleagues. The report that we received about the work of the Electronic Media Council and the Electronic Media Agency for the past year is by the way that it was made so that we can say that it is comprehensive, that it is objective and that it shows the state more or less fully as it is in our media. What I wanted to tell you on behalf of the stand-alone Democratic Serb Party club is that unfortunately, the situation in our media is getting worse when it comes to professionalism, so when legal obligations do not improve, they get worse. The Media Act of the fourth paragraph states in Article 3 that it prohibits the transmission of software content that promotes or glorifys national, racial, religious, sexual and other imbalances as ideological and state-owned entities, and that they cause national, religious, sexual and other enmity and intolerance, as well as the promotion of violence and war. In our media, the messages that are in collegiate and contrary to this provision of the Media Act are unfortunately too much. There's been a lot of cases in the past year, some of them listed here. That someone on the public media, by electronic means, who has a relatively large view of an ethnic group says vermin and probably because of a warning, is unfortunately our condition. And it's still considered freedom of the media or something that needs to be tolerated. On the other hand, the public media, as was the case with Croatian TV during the anti-kyrillic campaign last year, serves as a media preparation for the campaign, is also something we cannot understand and we have talked about here on many occasions. And that there is no within institutions and then within regulatory agencies and councils more stringent mechanisms when it comes to this kind of phenomenon we also cannot understand. I have no problem with differences in attitudes as far as right or as left but I have a problem with hate speech, I have a problem calling for violence. I don't have any problem with the beliefs that are right, they're as prone to discussion as mine, as well as someone who's on the other side of the pole. But I have a problem with calls for intolerance, violence and hatred. And that's what we've had over the past few years in a number of places and a number of cases. Another thing, in the Law on Electronic Media, Article 2 requires publishers of radio and television publication, I quote: "...publishing the truth, respecting human dignity and human rights and fundamental freedoms and contributing to respecting other people's opinions and beliefs." Most of our media does not publish information but publishes a comment, starting with Croatian Radio and Croatian Television. Elemental conditions to know what happened, where it happened, when it happened and why it didn't happen. It's like that from year to year. But we know what to think about what happened or who was the actor in the event. So the comment is prepared. I don't care if it's on behalf of communist ideology or if it's on behalf of some other ideology, but if the comments are pre-prepared and people need to be stuffed with these comments it's not free journalism, it's not free media. And Madam President, I think it's a very serious problem for the Council for Electronic Media. A high degree of unprofessionalism in this regard. The same applies naturally to the Croatian Radio Television Act in Article 8. So when we had joint meetings of the Committee on Media and the Committee on Human Rights a while ago, it was said that when the stadiums began to scan messages that call for violence and hate or to celebrate the ideologies that left behind terrible violence in World War II and crime, the programmes would be excluded. There's a representative, Kosor, once prime minister, who can testify that's the case. Have any programs been disabled? The maximum we've achieved is to say inappropriate scans of individuals. There wasn't any inappropriate scan of any individuals, but unfortunately one significant part. The maximum that can be achieved is to eventually silence the audience, but nothing more than that. And then, of course, it's no wonder that on portals and forums, on portals, hate speech dominates and has no serious debate because our media actually don't serve to achieve any serious debate. No, I don't. They are used for tabloidisation, for marketing and of course for commenting and, of course, to encourage hate speech and encourage speech of violence. And that's why I'm surprised when the council in its decisions doesn't see the advantage of helping non-profit media but is heading towards helping the profit media, because of the dangers of dumped media advertising spaces. If there is room for advertising for NGOs under the conditions they can handle, it is dumped. And that when media owners and owners of major concerts agree on what commercials will do, that's not a problem for you. I'll never understand that kind of liberalism, but I know I'll be strong against it because it's undemocratic, because it's monopoly, because it's concertal. So we've overprivatized anyway, and if we can't give room for some kind of non-profit action of the media and strengthen the non-profit activity of the media, then we'll have a problem. Then indeed, when it comes to the national dimension of our policy, all we will remain is rhetoric, and everything else unfortunately will not be. A real and real political measure. With regard to the Pluralism Fund and the diversity of electronic media, the minority participation fund and minority programmes, i.e. the participation of minority organisations, are about 10%. Most funds go into service or go to users for which we do not know whether they are used properly or used in the right way. So we have phenomena that media that don't contribute to pluralism, that don't contribute to tolerance, that don't contribute to the improvement of interethnic trust or minority rights receive funds from the media pluralism Fund, and thus mixes on the one hand the profit dimension, and on the other hand the non-profit dimension. We don't know what it's all about. I support the thinking of my colleague Glavak when it comes to local media. We absolutely need to strengthen them, but the regulatory dimension must be present when there is a legal obligation and, in addition to the natural mixing of the profit and non-profit part, the funds derived from the budget and the funds derived from the profit from advertising or some other services that can be offered in the media space. So the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support this report, but we think that the Council for Electronic Media and the Agency for Electronic Media on the basis of what they have in their report, based on complaints received and received and based on this debate that could be heard today, can take a more decisive role in fixing the situation in the media space as it is, as I have consistently expressed here on behalf of the SDSS Club. And we also think that the Council for Electronic Media, together with other state institutions, which are obliged to take care of the implementation of the Penal Code, should find some sort of measure in the approach to the phenomenon and speech of hate and the way to sanction hate speech or to spread intolerance and spread and to encourage violence. The particular problem, of course, is something that you can't finish, as far as you can't deal with it is a matter of professionality that I've been talking about and it's a matter of destruction, but it's something that your domain is a question of destroying the public function of the media, functions that will be in that it has objective, complete, timely and impartial information about what's going on in society. We have less and less of such media, unfortunately. I'm one of those who signed the first principles for freedom of public information in the late 1980s. Today when I see what this has become, I often think I'm sorry we did it. But of course bow down to this kind of monster destroying the media as means of public communication and public decision-making, public information to citizens and public debate about what is of public interest we cannot and your help in this regard can be of great benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89280	Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89281	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Pupovac, I agree with your assessment that neither hate speech nor intolerance should be allowed, that there should be a more objective display and approach, and also that not only the greater engagement of these institutions that we are talking about today, but, in my opinion, also legal regulations that would go in that sense to protect man's dignity. But what's surprising is your partial assessment. You're one of the co-signatures of the newest, this week's Serbian ethnic community, who has become intolerant from week to week, with national hatred. Therefore, in order to have an objective assessment, it is necessary to give a complete picture so that we have a common denominator so that we can oppose it. If you think this grade, that the weekly is not like that, then I can come here every week, look for a break and read reviews and attitudes that directly attack the fundamental values on which Croatia was created.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89282	Milorad Pupovac, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89283	Madam Vice President, as for the day.hr that's what you spoke of colleague Tudjman if I heard correctly. ... I say, as far as daily.hr is concerned, you've been talking about how much I've heard. [[You can't hear it.]] And you didn't talk about daily.hr? ... Yeah. [[You can't hear it.]] So it doesn't bother you. Okay. I'll tell you about News now. I thought you were talking about Buika and the other one, but I see you didn't talk about it. As for News, News, if they contained in themselves the spread of national hatred, then I, as a responsible person on behalf of the publisher, would react first. And even if you find places where national hatred is spreading I ask you to do so without tightening up to me in writing or in any other form you say. If this is about a criticism that you and I may disagree with, if it is about a vocabulary in that criticism that you are with, and very often I probably don't agree on it, of course, we need to talk about it with sensitivity. If it is about criticising things that we think are unquestionable and that we must not touch them and that we must not debate them, you must take them with journalists and people who are not from yesterday and people who are not without journalistic credibility or without journalistic biography, they are among the largest press feathers that exist in the Republic of Croatia, and there have been persecutions in times that you know better than I do.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89284	Thank you very much. And Sun Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89285	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Pupovac, in one part we agreed, that's the part about hate speech. Yes, it is true that today we talked about electronic media, or electronic publications. But you have to agree that no medium has the right to spread hate on any basis, so neither does the weekly mentioned by my colleague Tudjman, it's absolutely unacceptable to me. And anyone who has any influence on it, personally, politically, any one should be prevented. I am going back to that, and the mechanisms of the fund, or the monitoring agency, are in a way of confiscation of concessions, indemnity of funds and the like. Once again, there is social justification and the dominant role of local media, the media in the local environment, and that is what we should think about. And I couldn't agree with you on the flat-rate assessment that they're actually becoming mechanisms of influence of any policy, any local powers. In this way we cannot generalise the media in the Republic of Croatia. And I say one more time we're talking about local media. Not everyone is as sacred as they can be said, not absolutely. But that's why we have a regulator, and we expect him to do it, and we expect him to do it when we warn him to do it. Or what counterpart Anticevic said according to the Penal Code, therefore there are mechanisms. We can warn them, the regulator must enforce the law, or the bodies must react to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89286	Milorad Pupovac, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89287	I repeat once again if there are elements to calling for intolerance I ask you to help me with that. But if you criticise and demitology or answer satirical response to hate speech that you don't talk about, what does that mean when someone... a person starts speaking in a language that spreads intolerance? Does such a person deprive himself of the status that prohibits others from putting him in a place where he does not belong? And in addition, the press that is issued in several thousand copies and reaches perhaps up to two or three thousand people compared to what goes by urbius et orbi via national media, which you colleagues and colleagues do not speak a single word about, that people still today after so many years after the end of the war come into military war uniforms to discuss social issues. That's no problem for you? Insinuating young people who take over public functions and want to help resolve some issues in our society, is that not a problem for you? But it is a matter of one critical oasis of people who have not since yesterday and have not been confirmed in just one possible media space. And as far as local media is concerned, there's no way I'd be able to identify all the local media because, of course, there are representatives of local media who do their jobs in a significant way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89288	Thank you. On behalf of HNS representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89289	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mrs. Rakic and her associate. We have a report from the Council on Electronic Media and the Agency for Electronic Media for 2013. The 200 pages of this report list the powers and activities of the Council and the Agency in 2013 from concession tenders through the list of ownership structures of the media, software content, publishers, insurance against the implementation of programme principles and obligations provisions, supervision of the implementation of the HRT Act to the financial report and concrete allocations of funds to media service providers and radio from the Fund to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media. Let me repeat what we said only a few months ago regarding the 2012 report. We in HNS want to clearly point out the importance of the work of the councils, agencies and funds and the importance of their existence and of all the control mechanisms they have in their hands. In fact, the area of electronic technology has been a specific field of electronic media, which has been available to the public for... the area of human activity for the past 50 years, and remains in an unprecedented rise in the world. The amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media of July last year are modernising thoughts, attitudes, views and thus and legal actions in relation to modern electronic media and the law almost fully meets the current views and needs for the demanding and positive action of all actors in electronic media. Something like previous colleagues said should certainly be said about local radio and primarily TV stations in the Republic of Croatia. It is clear that all television in Croatia for Croatia and its citizens are as important as those with national concessions and those with local concessions. TV, although slowly changing in favour of the Internet, is still the main source of information, portable, cultural, scientific popular, sports, educational and selected programmes in these days. This is consumed by all citizens or citizens regardless of the degree of education, religion, sex, birth or age. Just as any other activity does not have only the income side and the TV production activity has a much wider role than the empty profit creation itself, whether profitable or non-profit. But when we think about the creation of profits, it is about activities of general importance such as the media in the case of television production, the responsibility of such companies, companies, publishers and editors is incomparably greater than various other activities. Today's media are also in some cases even more than a policy responsible for creating an atmosphere in society. The media is responsible for the transfer of elemental information to categorization, qualification and evaluation of the value of almost all events in the community. The selection, positioning and evaluation of media directly influences attitudes and opinions and awareness of events. Because of the huge amount of information, due to the accelerated lifestyle, because of the overload of your work and personal problems today's average reader, listener or viewer simply leaves to the media... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89290	My colleagues, let's make sure that he can speak. Comrade Jandrokovic!
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89291	Forming his opinions and opinions on events and phenomena in society. Simply an average viewer or listener, a citizen, has no time or energy to trust media messages. And that's why today, for a state of society, the responsibility of the media is greater than ever. All the media in Croatia are at national level, and most at local level, except HRT private. They're all naturally turned to profit, and many survive... so they don't choose, or very often choose to publicly encourage the lowest passions in order to raise the circulation, obedience or ratings or simply to stay on the market at all. Press and electronic... said journalistic and media pornography can be fought in various ways, but primarily except... the same fight is possible only by opposing the exact opposite of quality and real value content and increased education of journalists. In today's free competitions, it is essential primarily that the operating conditions of all media are simply the same. It's not good for them to be, for example. television stations with a national concession under more favourable operating conditions than television stations at regional or local level. It is necessary to openly support the work of television stations at regional and local level because they are important, because they are closest to their citizens' problems, because they understand the problems of local communities and citizens in them best. And that's why it's particularly reasonable in Article 33 of the Law, the Law on Electronic Media, where public institutions are bound, for companies to advertise 15% of the promotion budget at local TV stations. This at least mitigates the difference between promotional potential and becomes a national and regional local concession. It is not a pity that sanctions for public institutions and companies which do not comply with that Article of the law are not prescribed. However, it would be good for all those who have failed to comply with their legal obligations to be publicly named in future reports. According to this report, the emphasis is given to the Pluralism and diversity Fund of media, radio and television programmes on which competitions have the right to participate all broadcasters of television or radio at local and regional level, as well as audio visual and radio programmes of non-profit television and radio publishers. In 2013 the Council for Electronic Media opened a tender under which 31 million 626 kuna and 23 June for 992 programmes were awarded. Furthermore, the introduction of this report states that the Council shall ensure that the implementation of the programme principles, obligations, etc. is monitored by the Council. monitoring. Surveillance shall be carried out directly and indirectly. In 2013, a total of 174 thousand 864 hours of radio and television programmes were recorded, i.e. 93 thousand 384 hours of television and 78 thousand 480 hours of radio. Independent of continuous recording, 17 television programs and 10 radio channels were occasionally recorded at different levels and programme orientations. According to the supervision carried out, the Council’s infringements in 2013 issued 40 warnings, 7 warnings, 1 infringement warrant and 2 indictments. In 2013, a total of 1036 complaints were received from citizens, bodies or legal persons, with 74 cases, of which 20 complaints were related to 19 cases from 2012 and 1016 complaints on 155 new cases under which they were handled in 2013. It's important to hear the citizens. Electronic media is certainly an area that develops at random speeds. Just over 20 years have passed since the actual general use of personal computers in Croatia. The Internet is presented practically the other day, and the most widespread social network facebook records just over 5 years of existence and advertising use around the world, including with us. Internet communication, e-mail is the basic and almost the only type of written communication. We, too, have made a number of amendments in the Assembly where in certain laws we set out electronic, or electronic archival records, and by the last amendment of the Rules of Procedure, we have made a rational decision that all documents of the representatives' proposals are received by electronic means. We're on the verge of an official electronic signature and the creation of an electronic digital age. On the Internet we can track various cultural events, concerts, numerous exhibitions, works of art, films, millions, billions of photographs. We buy goods, services via the Internet, we solve daily, and... problems, we pay bills. An e-Croatian has been launched. Soon we will receive all the permits and documents of the state administration from all levels exclusively by electronic means. Today, life as a whole is impossible without electronic communication, without computer technology. It's all on the Internet, all the data, almost all the knowledge of all humanity, practically no topic or idea that could not be found on the Internet. The Internet media, commercial and non-commercial, are slowly taking over the main role also in quick information on daily events. Some of Croatia's best press feathers crossed from daily and weekly newspapers and wrote for the most significant, so-called new portals. Some of our top intellectuals write articles, have their columns on various portals. Many also write their blogs. Anyone who wants an opportunity and an opportunity to express themselves, write and publish whatever they want. To express your attitudes, opinions, fears, imagination and ideas. Many are objective and unobstructive critics of our daily life. We bear witness and read from ground floor prosaclysms to top scientific, political and social considerations, thesis and comments. The most spiritual depictions of cartoons, photo montages, movies, videos are on the Internet and in all its other derivatives. The Internet provides absolutely random communication possibilities. Overall, the work of the Council for Electronic Media, the Agency for Electronic Media and the Fund for the Promotion of pluralism and the diversity of media is unusually important and primarily in terms of market regulation, regularity and protection of equality and the legality of business in the branch. It is in vain that anyone participating in this particularly demanding market has the exact same conditions and the exact same limitations. No one under any circumstances shall be privileged or demoted. What we have said, last report, in the HNS of Liberal Democrats, there seems to be still an unusual number of subjects dealing with productions of electronic content in a black or gray zone, especially in terms of various internet portals on purpose, some simply because they are not the focus of regulators. This creates unfair competition for all those who work in accordance with laws and regulations and pay fees and taxes. There seems to me to be a council as a regulator, and especially the agency has a lot to do, a lot of work to do. And finally let me express the final position of the CNS. We believe that from the moment this new leadership and council composition began to function significantly more professionally, and we believe that the correct claim from the introduction of this report, which says that the council is trying to implement the professional values that arise from the basic, Croatian and European legislative documents that govern the space of electronic media. We certainly believe that more order will be introduced in the future and never censoring both profitable and non-profit electronic media, and to the benefit of the only important final consummations of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The HNS of Liberal Democrats will accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89292	Sun Head, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89293	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Blažekovic, your requests have already been answered. In fact, you have requested that the following report be publicly named by those who have not supplied the data, so I will only say once again who those who have not acted in accordance with the cracks, just some of them, the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, the Ministry of Culture, Maritime and Infrastructure, the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, etc. However, what is interesting, do you know what the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness has responded to the request for data to be delivered. The Agency replied that it is not a state administration body or largely owned by the Republic of Croatia. My colleague Blažekovic, I think you'll agree with me, and in whose possession the agency is but owned by the state. So this is disrespecting regulators or demands regulators, once again, I draw attention to that. And finally, just to stay somewhere written down, so the authorities of the national advertising administration in 2013 singled out more than 23 million kunas, as far as local media relations are concerned, it's just over 5 million kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89294	Boris Blazekovic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89295	Thank you very much. My colleague Glavak thinks that this article of the law is extremely important and that it is important that those 15% be paid for local media because, as I pointed out, as we really think in the HNS, this is that local media may at some point be more important than the national media because they know better the situation and the life of citizens in their field than anyone else could. As for the ones you've listed, I mentioned that I wish they were listed because we don't know if any of those institutions you've listed have ever used money for propaganda. And it says that if they have to use 15% of what they're using and zero of 15% is zero. That is why I asked or asked to see in the next report who they were to list.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89296	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Ivan Racan. Here you go, buddy. Please have your replicas and answers and don't argue from the bench any further. Let's make sure everyone in the normal atmosphere can say what he has to say on behalf of his club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89297	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. We're kind of at the end of this debate, and I know we're all waiting to finish. I'll start at the end, which is that the SDP club accepts this report and I'll look back even though I don't like to repeat myself, I'll look back at the debate so far. We have all identified some of the problems, among them is the most highlighted hate speech that is present that from the very media in the content that very often, I will not say very often which occurs, to the part where the media communicates with citizens, or that is the most about portals and comments, and here we are all aware that we have a problem. Unfortunately, this problem exists not only in Croatia, it exists everywhere and has not solved anyone in quality yet. The media always have a question about whether to close that kind of communication or not. If they're trying to put under surveillance there's no solution or at this point no one's found it and maybe there's a space for the Media Council and the Media Agency to try to find some kind of modus, bring in some kind of rulebook to try something. Another problem that we all agree on is that more or less all speakers have spoken before me, which is that the situation in the media is difficult, I won't say bad than hard. The media is getting smaller every year, returning concessions or closing what this report shows, journalists are getting smaller, and this is all expensive primarily due to a bad economic situation that has been going on for a long time. And that's where I think there's room. The Media Council, on a proposal for a solution to how to help. As the Pluralism Fund has proved very useful to electronic publishers, a solution should be found to help stop shutting down local media, I will now say a bit naive but literally at the level of the proposal to affect tax. To allow the media to survive. And as a third thing, I'm just gonna say this and it's about the first thing, and that's hate speech. I think all of us here have to wonder how much we ourselves contribute to our own performances that are sometimes at the edge of good taste, that we simply promote such behaviour with citizens. In that I'm not naive, I know there's nothing I can do to change it, but it's a question and I'm just going to ask it, how much we all have to do with each other's behavior like we've got throws here, as much as we're promoting such a public situation. And that's for all of us to give our own answer and think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89298	Thank you very much. counterpart Dragan Montenegrin is not present, so he loses the right to debate on this point. And Mrs Mirjana Rakic, director of the Agency and representative of the Final Word Council. Here you go. I'd like some more patience, so when we're done with this point, we'll approach the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89299	Madam Vice President, esteemed MPs and MPs. I thank you on behalf of the Council and the Electronic Media Agency for your thoughts, for your questions, for your findings. And I want to tell you on this occasion that both the Council and the Agency will take this very seriously because these are serious things, we're talking about the media. Every segment of our society is serious but I think the media is still among those more serious not only that I come from such a medium and that I represent this Agency but because of the level of society and the democratisation of our community itself. What is actually highlighted in most of the debate is something that perhaps the Agency and the Council can indirectly influence and this is a question of professionalism for people acting in the media. Many times for various reasons, this is exactly what our debate is about because this level of professionalism in some segments is either not respected or forgotten or simply does not exist. As far as the Agency and the Council are concerned, and it is in some way related to the surplus funds in the last year, and I just want to say that this surplus is created in the account for a simple reason why we couldn't and realised it in that year even though they were launching projects. One of these projects was an analysis of the impact of the pluralism Fund that was completed this summer. A radio market analysis has also been launched because in 2013, a television market analysis that I think has brought us all very important data and has given us some insight into the directions in which we should go on our own when it comes to local and regional media. What I would like to point out is the impact of the Fund on which you too reflected and supervised the spending of these funds. The control of the spending of these funds is carried out in lipo, according to the programs. The fact is that Mr. Pupovac mentioned here that for national minorities there is 10% of the fund's assets, but each publisher has the right to choose criteria for the Fund and the topic of national minorities, it is of course a question of how much will be included in the processing of such content. What the Agency plans to do, plans to work and there are also from this year on the funds will be transferred in the next year a new analysis of the impact of the Fund, the issue of analysis of electronic publications because there are major problems not only for us but also at the level of the international community. Because looking at these gatherings that I've been at, hate speech has first and foremost not been put almost in vain at all points of the agenda, and unfortunately no one has the right answer for the simple reason that no one as a regulator where the independence of the regulators is put first doesn't want to become about as a great inquisitor to determine this you can say, you can't say this. However, regulators should keep that external framework within which media policy should take place. That doesn't mean we can't do anything and we can't do anything. In fact, what we are monitoring and monitoring and the portal is equally performed as is done and surveillance of television and radios and they are obliged to keep or enable us to reconstruct the site on which we have the inquiry. Right now in monitoring we have six employees, four of them until recently, and that's where we increased the number of employees. Otherwise, the number of employees has increased by five this year, but we will discuss this in the 2014 report. And I think it's done thoroughly for now. I don't see how we've had any faults. Just as we respond at the same time to the inquiry or finding of any viewer, reader or listener, the reader of the portal, if he sees any irregularities that we are looking for an indication of the publishers. As for electronic publications, unfortunately I now seem to speak only in electronic publications, but it seems to me that they are the most disturbing in the work line is one difficulty. There are about 170 of them in the register, 41 of them non-profits, and only 10 of them applied to the fund. Those who apply to the fund are subject to the fund's criteria, which means if you get a warning, there's no funds for the fund. These others are registered as media, and they're entitled to it all. You can't defend anyone in advance you can't sign up, but they don't have concessions from which, say, what was also asked is an agency issue and the councils are funding. As far as these funds are concerned, that's 0.5% of each concessionary's gross annual income. About 4 million and 300,000 kunas left for our salaries last year. The gross salary is about 7000 kuna, the highest is 27,000 kuna gross, so the average would be about 12200 or 12300 kuna. So what is clear to the council is the agency, which is that the publishers in some segments are doing their work, and above all in promoting better products, because all the publishers of the electronic media are doing this job, I think for the sake of their product, it's a program, to allow them to do it more quality, thus being more recognizable in their environments and what you mentioned and there are very high-quality journalists on the market so that they can be hired. These are the topics on which we see that there are problems. One of these topics is hate speech, so the workshop, one topic is national minorities and the topic above what I think, which is media literacy, because from the media literacy of all of us, then all the other problems and difficulties arise. I wouldn't be longer. I thank you all for the report for '14. A year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-10-24-0.u89300	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. A report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media and the Agency for Electronic Media for 2013 A year. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media and the Agency for Electronic Media for 2013 is hereby adopted. a year." Please, let's vote. I'm asking for a result. I find that for most 89 votes in favour, 12 abstentions and one against the vote, we have reached the proposed conclusion. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I conclude the 14th session of the Croatian Parliament. I announce that the next 15th session will hopefully be scheduled for November 12th. I want everyone to spend the Day of the All Saints and the Day of the Dead in peace, to prepare yourself in the materials you have so that we can work effectively on the 15th session. Thank you very much.
