ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86325	My colleagues and colleagues have a good day! We're continuing to discuss 12. The report on the work of the Committee on European Affairs shall be submitted to the European Affairs Committee in accordance with Article 65. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You have received the material, and the opening report will explain the chairman of the board of colleagues Daniel Mondekar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86326	Thank you, Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Allow me to present the 2013 report on the work of the European Affairs Committee. Therefore, from 1 July 2013 to 31 December 2013. First of all, the Committee on European Affairs submits this report because, in accordance with the Law on the Cooperation of the Government and the Parliament in European Affairs, the Council in European Affairs shall execute this committee, and then, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, inform you of what it has done in the current year. The adoption of the Lisbon Treaty has significantly increased the role of national parliaments as regards, primarily, the powers of direct verification of compliance with the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality in the transitions of EU legislative acts and the right to direct delivery of all EU documents in the official languages of the Union, which is one of the essential changes that the Lisbon Agreement has made when it comes to strengthening national parliaments before and after Lisbon. So, with the special participation that has existed since the 1970s, the Lisbon Agreement also brings the direct participation of national parliaments in European affairs primarily as I have said through subsidiarity and the fact that we are equally informed at the same time about individual acts as national governments. As you know, the way to this board went parallel to the negotiations. The Croatian Parliament before the Committee on European Affairs had a Committee on European Integration, which was created together with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, while when the key negotiations took over the National Committee as the most important body and additional... Joint Parliamentary Committee of the European Parliament and the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this business in which the National Committee was more important and stronger the Committee on European Integration, the old Committee, based its activities. based on monitoring procedures for the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the acquis and monitoring and support of the accession process. During that period, almost 700 laws passed through the Committee on European Integration and through all other committees and plenary sessions by June 2013. The old committee, to be mentioned here, held 31 sessions of regular and 79 bilateral meetings in the 7th session, in 2012 and in the first half of 2013, meaning joint meetings with committees from other countries primarily EU member states, which was almost 100 sessions that were particularly intense in the process during the ratification process of the Croatian Accession Treaty. The establishment of the Committee on European Affairs is the result of the adjustment of the Croatian Parliament to the conditions of Croatia's membership in the EU. The accession set up a Committee on European Affairs, modelling other Member States that exercise powers in the exercise of European affairs on behalf of the Parliament and in order to ensure the optimal impact of the Parliament on decision-making at Union level. The Croatian Parliament, through the European Affairs Committee, actively participates in the creation, i.e. the adoption of a new acquis communataire, means new legal gains as an active participant in European, political and legislative life. And there's this key difference between old and new systems. In the old system, we have actually done a job of transposing already voted directives or introducing regulations if there is a law to transpose regulations, and in this system we are actively involved in the creation of new EU acts. From 1 July to 31 December 2013, the Committee held 8 sessions and 2 so-called meetings were held. previous debates on the work of the Parliament in European affairs. It was, of course, a work programme process. We have brought a work programme for 2013, for the rest of 2013, to have a previous debate at the end of 2013 where the European Commission's 2014 programme was presented, based on the Parliament's own programme in 2014. As I said, the supervision of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in European affairs is carried out by the Committee on European Affairs, and the key document of the Committee itself is already mentioned a work programme to consider the position of the Republic of Croatia, which in 2013 voted for the rest of 2013 in which we entered 51 acts after consulting with all Croatian National Authorities. What was ambitious on our part, given that it was the end of the European Commission's legislative period and that Croatia joined the EU at the end of the legislative period. We have therefore entered membership when most of these documents have already moved in the process of adoption itself and thus Parliament has been unable to participate since the early phase of the adoption of acts, so these are now phases in which the Commission has just presented an act and the committees and working bodies of the council are just passing through, and then Parliament can have a greater impact so that out of those 50 acts there were 15 people on whom we had a real impact. In the process of considering the position, the parent working bodies who must give their opinion on the Government's position are also involved, and based on the Government's position and opinion of the Committee on European Affairs, the Committee on European Affairs draws a final conclusion which, both by the Constitution and by law, is the basis for the government to act in European institutions. The Committee was also in this short period, and we are actually only talking about the autumn, the beginning of the winter 2013, and there have been 4 hearings related to EU ministers and councils, we have had these 4 hearings in 5 council formations and that form of the Committee, i.e. the Foreign Affairs Council, the General Affairs Council, the Environment Council, the Economic and Financial Council and the Justice Council. The two meetings of the European Council for which the Prime Minister had to submit and submitted all the necessary documents, including the views of the Government before the Council itself and the report after the Council, now that we are talking about this model here briefly, we have had some advantages on our part, above all that we are the first country to enter the EU after the adoption of the Lisbon Agreement and we have been able to hear and see the experiences of 27 Member States before us, about their surveillance models, about how they adapted to the new Lisbon powers and taking into account 27 experiences, the Croatian model was also created. As for the region itself in our environment, it is stronger in some segments than the models that have Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Greece and Italy, in some segments it is stronger than our neighbours in Slovenia, and thanks to all of them who helped us because they gave us their documents, bill proposals, regulations and explained to us what this system looks like in the Member States so that today we have a stronger mandate model. As I said, the conclusion of the Committee is the foundation that the Government must, based on it, the Government must act in European institutions, on the matter of hearing we are hearing between the two councils, at the end of one and before the next and we are one of the Parliaments that has the positions of the Government before the European Council. It is one of the major political debates in the EU that is expected to continue now and after the formation of a new commission, as the new commission will almost certainly have a bearing on the European Council. The issue of strengthening parliamentary surveillance at the meetings of the European Council will almost certainly be opened again in 2015/2016. and the Croatian Parliament is one of those Parliaments, as I said, and there are 8 out of 28 who have government positions before the council. So, in most Parliaments unfortunately our fellow representatives do not have such views and we are one of a dozen Parliaments that hears and confirms candidates for EU institutions. One of these was at the end of the 7th month when we confirmed the candidate for the European Commission. At its meeting, the Committee on European Affairs regularly invites members of the European Parliament and... in Croatia, as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, can also be invited by all other parent committees. I can personally say that we need to work harder on this cooperation. It is not easy to coordinate the schedules of us 17 members of the Committee on European Affairs with 11 Europarliamentaries now, in the future we will have to find some model for the meetings to be either Monday morning or Friday afternoon so that we can match the members of the European Parliament, at least for key political debates where the input is, or advice from our fellow Members in the European Parliament, welcome us as a national parliament. Also, the right to initiate checks of compliance with the principle of subsidiarity according to the law, has every representative, the working bodies of the Assembly, the clubs of the MPs and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I now again urge all MPs to follow directly the EU documents and to also point out where the process of verifying compliance with the principle of subsidiarity should be launched. Following Protocol No. 1 of the Lisbon Treaty, EU institutions are obliged to submit directly documents to national parliaments which serve as the basis for the procedure for verifying the principle of subsidiarity and involvement in political dialogue. By 31 December 2013, we were delivered to Parliament 308 legislative and non-legislative acts, mostly non-legislative acts in the Croatian language, and we are as a Parliament involved in the IPEX system, which is an internet platform for the exchange of information related to the EU, which is administered by our officials in the Committee on European Affairs. Since 01 July 2013, legal acts and decisions of the EU have therefore continued to be transposed into our legislation, and this committee has also followed the list of harmonisations, but a great responsibility for monitoring the coordination is on the parent bodies. And this is actually the closed circle that we were talking about when we were bringing this system, that on the one hand we have a Committee on European Affairs working with the parent committees in the making of new EU legislation, which after a certain time, which may be a year, two, three, even four, to bring this act into force, then they return to the National Parliament if they need to go to Parliament and once again through the parent bodies to discuss how and how it is introduced into Croatian legislation. And that's the difference between two years ago. As for the external political activities of the Committee on European Affairs, we have had 14... meetings with the National Parliaments of the Member States, the countries of Southeast Europe and the countries of the Eastern Partnership. The Committee's multilateral activity is also realised at regular co-operations at the COSAC Co-ordination at the European level of all committees on European affairs of national parliaments, which is basically one of the national parliamentary activities found in the Lisbon Agreement. We also held a series of meetings with senior officials of European institutions and representatives of parliamentary associations, such as the Parliament of the Council of Europe Assembly, Commissioners from the European Commission, State Secretary from the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and, say here, the European Free Trade Association. Our report, under point 10, also lists the capacity associated with the expert committee's service. The service performs activities related to the organisation of meetings, bilateral and multilateral activities, and what is very important through its service, the Croatian Assembly is involved in the work of inter-resor working groups for European affairs at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, and we are directly involved in the work of coordination for the foreign and European policies of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which we have been involved since the beginning of the process of making a position. Before us in 2014, therefore, as this report is for 2013, the rest of the jobs that are listed in the law and which we really did have to do with most of them in 2014. And when we look at it from the novelty, it was that we had a hearing of counterpart Neven Mimica as a candidate for the Croatian article of the European Commission. We also had the first three documents in a political dialogue with the European Commission, and this was related to the principle and respect for the principle of subsidiarity, and we also had a session together with the Committee on Agriculture on the issue of quotas for milk and bananas in schools and we had a key political question about the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which remains an open political issue for you, given the announcements of the new President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker, and this document is likely to be found again in the third version of the national parliaments' tables. There is also increased activity in COSAC and with 4.5 formats we covered almost all of the EU Council formats in our hearings. I also call on the other committees here once again, and I must thank some committees for their activities. I also thank my colleague from the Committee on Finance, Transport, Agriculture, Environmental Protection because they have shown an extraordinary initiative to actively engage themselves without the Committee on European Affairs in selecting topics on which committees want to be discussed. I thank them for this and call on all committees to join in European affairs once again through the development of the next work programme. A new commission, a new work programme, will be interesting to see in view of the clustering of the new commission, given the working teams in the new commission, given what the fitness regulatory and the cleaning of EU acts will offer us as a work programme for 2015. Just to conclude, in 2014 we did not have time for further stalkings immediately we joined all the more important initiatives already in the EU on the table on issues arising from national parliaments, whether related to the Lisbon Agreement or whether interinstitutional co-operation. On the one hand, the Parliament has been actively involved in a Dutch initiative that is heading towards clarifying the ambiguities and let's say gray areas in shared responsibilities, and to make clear what the European institutions are doing, what national parliaments are doing but without changing the basic contracts. We also supported the Danish initiative, which went towards the new President of the European Commission, who is in favour of the idea of creating new mechanisms and that a joint working group proposes new co-operation mechanisms for the Commission and national parliaments. And we also heard the British initiative that is going towards expanding the scope of the work related to subsidiarity, particularly time-consuming and introducing a new cardboard which is quite problematic because of changes to the Lisbon Agreement, but nevertheless the Croatian Parliament is active in these initiatives. And the only thing left for us now is to further strengthen cooperation with the Europarliamentaries, but also with Croatian representatives in advisory bodies such as the Committee oft he Regions, so to the Committee of the Regions and the Economic and Social Council, which are two advisory institutions. And allow me the last two, three minutes as I said models aren't listed in the stone. We will year by year collecting experience by doing this job probably come up with ideas how to improve our system. We are also committed to what other parliaments are doing but also to what other European institutions are doing. At this point, there is an initiative that all EU parliaments have a national work programme, to coordinate the work programme, and to work together 28 parliaments on individual acts in similar time limits. It is also a kind of pressure on European institutions. It's one of the initiatives. There are also initiatives to leave subsidiarity and attitudes to the parent committees and to make European Affairs committees one high political body that has regular political discussions at strategic levels related to European documents. As a committee, we are working together in 2014 and we have raised some key issues, we have opened the subject of subsidiarity, we have also opened the question of the transatlantic TTIP contract with the United States which will be a hot political issue in 2015. Not when you're looking at Croatian media, but in Europe it's a key issue. And also as I said, I expect that with both the new commission and the commission's new appearance, the new division of competencies in the commission and even this story that there will be a veto within the Commission I expect political debates on this and on this topic and I expect a new work programme I thank all my colleagues in the work so far and once again I call on all my fellow representatives to get involved in European affairs from the 2015 programme even more. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86327	Thank you. Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86328	Dear colleague Mondekar, here's a very short one, I didn't answer for an individual debate or debate on behalf of the club because I could speak the same thing in 15 minutes. I think in the 4.5 committee in which I worked in the Croatian Parliament that the Committee on European Affairs is one of the best committees, that it works impeccably what I spoke last year when we talked about the Committee on European Affairs and as probably an ex-member of the Committee. All praises to you as chairman of the board, committee as a whole, to all colleagues. The report is clearly, transparently and once again commendable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86329	Mirela Holly, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86330	Here I will also commend the Committee on European Affairs, and I would particularly like to praise that, during this summer, unfortunately, a thematic session on an extremely important topic has been held since the meeting was concluded, which is currently being discussed at the level of the European Commission and will be the subject of debate in the European Parliament, which is the transatlantic trade and investment agreement between the United States and the European Union. It is my impression that this extremely important agreement is not sufficiently informed by the Croatian public and therefore I believe that it is a very large obligation for the Croatian Parliament as well as for the Croatian Government to inform citizens about this contract which will greatly affect the future of Europe as well as Croatia. So the Greens faction in the European Parliament is against this agreement for a whole series of reasons, we believe that the worst version of it is the ISDS mechanism which could very much limit the possibilities of the government and the parliaments to decide on extremely important issues related to environmental protection as well. I would also like to commend the committee's initiative to hold a thematic debate over the autumn on the circulatory economy, which is also an extremely important topic that is beginning to be discussed and to suggest the transition from linear to circular economy, and I believe that Croatian citizens should also get information and therefore any commendation from the committee that follows these topics.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86331	The answer to Daniel Mondekar's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86332	I thank you for actually your replica. I can only say that I agree that the transatlantic treaty is a key political issue. I just said that it's fascinating how much he's not in Croatian media, and whoever's following European media is on the agenda of European media. In the European Parliament's elections, however, TTIP was a key issue for a week as to how political parties would position themselves against it. What I can tell you is that the 7th round of negotiations begins on 29.9. It is expected that the real negotiations will begin during the 7th round, and we in the Committee on European Affairs between the 7th and 8th rounds will once again have a hearing on the need to discuss the subject in the Assembly. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86333	I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP representative club, counterpart Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86334	I thank you, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable President of the Committee on European Affairs, Mr Mondekar, colleagues and colleagues. The club, I can tell right away that the SDP club will support this report. National parliaments have also developed their own system of control over the activities of national governments in the Council of the European Union and other institutions, and as we know and as President Mondekar pointed out in particular, the role of national parliaments in the European Union is one of the key issues of further development of this community and is a political and organisational challenge. The Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union was confirmed by the Parliament in 2012, entered into force on 1 July 2013 as well as by the provisions of Chapter 8. The European Union in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thus Croatia also welcomed the changes that membership in the European Union has brought to the Croatian legal system. The establishment of the Committee on European Affairs is the result of the adaptation of the Croatian Parliament to the conditions of Croatia's membership in the European Union. In order to ensure transparency and public work, the Committee on European Affairs has an obligation to submit an annual report to the Parliament on its work. Doing European jobs in the Croatian Parliament, let us remind ourselves that is already done by President Mondekar, I will do it again for the importance of how we did it and how about the key, state interests of the Republic of Croatia cannot be speculation or politics. In the Croatian Parliament, this implementation of European affairs began in June, now in 2000, when negotiations on a Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Community and their member states were opened before the European Integration Committee was opened. Of course, then we've completed our rules of procedure. In addition to the Committee on European Integration, the National Committee and the Joint Parliamentary Committee of the Republic of Croatia and the European Union worked until Croatia entered the European Union. The Committee on European Integration, however, was also the business working body of the Croatian Parliament established with a view to direct inclusion in the process of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. It is important here to mention the conference of the Committee on European Affairs of the National Parliaments of the Member States, and in 2005 we participate in the establishment of a Conference of Parliamentary Committees on European Affairs of States covered by the Stabilisation and Association process. The specific feature of the Croatian pre-accession process was the national consensus of all parliamentary political parties on Croatia's membership in the European Union as a strategic goal and priority. However, I repeat, Croatia still has its priorities and strategic goals on which the national consensus would be very welcome and desirable. The Committee on European Affairs is a legal successor to the Committee on European Integration. The Committee on European Affairs as a working body is specific and I will repeat what is particularly important and we must always bear in mind that this is the only body and is specific because it has legal powers to carry out tasks on behalf of the Parliament. By transferring powers to the Committee on European Affairs, the Parliament has created conditions for the timely and effective implementation of European tasks in accordance with the rights conferred by the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to national parliaments. This is usually a common solution for all Member States of the European Union. This approach, both by itself and by selecting the membership of the Committee on European Affairs, enables effective political coordination and involvement of primarily parliamentary working bodies, as well as representatives' clubs in the performance of European affairs, because other than the president, this is the only working body, so with legal powers, which is why it has two vice-presidents and 14 members, which makes it the working body with the most elected members. So I repeat, the only working body with two vice presidents. Control over the functioning of the Government and the institutions of the European Union is one of the more important tasks of this Committee. In fact, the Croatian Parliament is not directly represented in the institutions of the European Union, but it has its influence on the activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the institutions of the European Union by doing so. The adoption of the work programme of the Croatian Parliament has just been classified in such a way as to increase the number of national parliaments that are planning and publicising their activities in order to strengthen their influence. The Committee on European Affairs has prepared a review of the draft policy legislative acts in the European Union. The Committee also received a notice on 19 parliaments to include 155 legislative acts in the work programme. The President of the Croatian Parliament has delivered to the Government of the Republic of Croatia the work programme adopted, which is the government's commitment as set out in Article 6(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Law on Cooperation from the position of the Republic of Croatia on documents from the work programme, and in relation to the implementation of the work programme for part, this is a specific period of 6 months for which the Croatian Parliament adopted 14 positions of the Republic of Croatia. Although the dynamics of adopting acts at European level are really difficult to predict and complex for monitoring, the Committee on European Affairs is working precisely in cooperation with the competent authorities of the state administration to monitor the handling of all documents contained in the work programme. The Council of the European Union is with the European Parliament as we know the main legislative body of the European Union. National parliaments do not have a direct impact on decision-making in the Council, but precisely through the institute of regular hearing of ministers on meetings of the Council of the European Union ensure that they have an impact on Council meetings. By 31 December 2013, the Committee on European Affairs held 4 meetings to discuss meetings of the 5 performances of the Council of the European Union and each of those meetings of the Committee on European Affairs was organised either as a joint or as a home working body, with the participation of members of the home working body. A report by the Ministry of Finance on a meeting of the Council of the European Union on Economic and Financial Affairs since 15 October 2013 and preparation for the next meeting for 15 November 2013 was then submitted by Assistant Minister of Finance Mr Maroje Lang. We had reports from the Foreign Affairs Council, the General Affairs Council, the Environment Council, the Justice and Home Affairs Council, which was reported in more detail by President Mondekar. The European Council has only become a separate institution of the European Union through the Lisbon Treaty, although it does not have the legislative authority to promote the development of the Union and to decide on general priorities, we can indeed consider it an extremely important political body. The Co-operation Act provides for regular annual notification by the Council of Meetings of the European Council in the form of a report, a report submitted by the Prime Minister at the beginning of the first meeting in the calendar year. The Prime Minister is also obliged to provide the Committee on European Affairs with the necessary preparatory documents for the meeting before each meeting of the European Council, as well as the Croatian position if available and after the meeting and the written report. We also had a very developed cooperation with the members of the European Parliament elected in the Republic of Croatia who regularly call. If they were not present, they were regularly present as their assistants. What President Mondekar particularly pointed out and that is something of great importance, that is the role and task of this committee in monitoring compliance with the principle of subsidiarity, checking compliance with the principle of subsidiarity in the proposals for legislative acts of the European Union, so it is the power to remind the same which came from the Lisbon Treaty. The Assembly therefore has the possibility of directly engaging in the process of adopting legislative acts at European Union level. In the first six months, the Committee on European Affairs has actively followed parliamentary oversight procedures as well as political dialogue between Member States' national parliaments and the European Commission through regular reporting by the Permanent Representative of the Croatian Parliament. By 31 December 2013, a total of 308 proposals for legislative and non-legislative acts in Croatian were submitted to the Assembly, but it is important to mention here a link to the IPEX database of users of the Assembly website. In fact, the IPEX is an Internet platform for the exchange of information related to the EU between national parliaments and the European Parliament. The main task of the IPEX is to facilitate the exchange of information on parliamentary surveillance between the EU Member States' parliaments and EU member states. With Croatia's entry into the EU, the focus of using the IPEX from the perspective of the Croatian Parliament has been shifted from the publication of information on the Assembly as a national parliament to the publication of information on the implementation of the parliamentary surveillance procedure over concrete EU documents. An important task is the harmonisation of legislation that did not stop Croatia's entry into the EU. Since 1 July 2013, EU decisions have been applied in the Republic of Croatia in line with the EU acquis following Croatia's obligation to comply with legislation as an EU Member State. The harmonisation of legislation therefore means today creating conditions for the implementation and takeover of legal property into Croatian legislation. On 8 February 2013, the Croatian Parliament adopted a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis for 2013 and with respect to its implementation for the 3rd and 4th quarters of 2013 it can be said that the harmonisation took place within the deadlines foreseen by the EU legal acquisition and implementation programme for 2013. In dealing with EU regulations, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to ensure all conditions for their effective implementation. In the procedure in the Croatian Parliament, the draft laws ensuring the implementation and application of the regulations are set out in the Annex, a statement of compliance with the draft rules. When it comes to EU directives, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to bring Croatia's legislation in line with the directives by taking over the content itself. Therefore, it is left to the Member State itself that it will translate such a directive into its legislation given to it in freedom by respecting the spirit and intentions of the Directive itself. This committee, as colleagues in their replicas have already pointed out and confirmed what the President said in the opening report, was a very active role of the Committee itself in bilateral co-operation, which was manifested in bilateral cooperation with EU Member States, but also in cooperation with Southeast European countries. Perhaps there is a particular emphasis here on the one Montenegrin, as Montenegrin and Kosovo representatives have shown great interest in the Croatian negotiating model with the EU, with particular emphasis on implementation of reforms in the administration, the transfer of our experience in the use of funds from pre-accession funds, in strengthening administrative capacity, and the achievement of European standards in the regulation of the justice system and the establishment of a rule of law and rule of law. It has also been a very active co-operation of our committee with the countries of the Eastern Partnership where I would particularly highlight activities in exchanges of experiences and best practice in the field of European integration, cooperation with the harmonisation of national legislation with European standards, the development of common approaches and projects to promote their own parliaments, the provision of space for raising and public awareness through the process of europeanisation and modernisation of the state. Also, our membership of the European Affairs Committee in Kozak resulted in significant activities, activities that the president himself has directly, but also other members. It should also point out at the end and co-operation with the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, but what can be pointed out on behalf of the SDP club that the first six months of membership of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, as well as the first six months of action of this committee, which has proved very active to the extent that and when the Croatian Parliament stopped working, this committee continued its work after that session. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86335	Replica, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86336	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, Mrs. Anticevic-Marinović. You have rightly mentioned speaking about a small time machine, so returning to the past regarding our negotiations on the national consensus on Croatia's entry into the EU, and it seems that this will be the last major national consensus and that other major such consensus will hardly be... I remembered the fact that both the National Committee and the Committee that we are talking about there were no obstacles, for example, there were, of course, ups and downs, but there were no disputes and no one ever pointed out how much I remember that in EU accession negotiations we should seek something further about the Law on judicial co-operation in criminal matters with EU countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This reminds me because we did not necessarily violate this consensus, because at the last moments before Croatia's entry into the EU when we changed, that is, most of us changed the law needlessly, and I repeat never during the negotiations did anyone make any remarks in the sense that we should seek restrictions as a accession state, for example, return to 2002. I refer to it as an example, some kind of lesson that we should do in the future. I agree with you, much has been done, but it seems to me that the visibility of the work of the committee itself in the Croatian public should and may be far greater. And that would certainly raise a kind of feeling with citizens and citizens, but also with politicians, a feeling that must be real, which is that we are indeed 28.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86337	Replication response, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86338	This consensus that has been following Croatia's accession to the European Union all this time I think it was one of our easier tasks, although at first it did not seem so. But what is coming to Croatia, and it seems to me that you are pleading for it, is something that shows greater readiness, greater maturity as a community as a whole, that is to show consensus in which direction, which is why our common fundamental human values, the social values on which Croatian society will rest, and also which are the fundamental economic settings on which we will lead our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86339	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86340	Dear Madam Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues present with us a report on the work of the European Affairs Committee for 2013. So it's about last year's report in which Croatia was a member for 6 months, it's about a report that we might actually call stalking in the real job that is waiting for us both in this 2014 and in the years to come. The Committee's work is based on the multiannual experience of the Committee on European Integration, the National Committee and the Joint Parliamentary Committee of the Croatian Parliament and the European Parliament. So these were the bodies through which we followed the Croatian negotiations in the Croatian Parliament, followed all those activities that were important for Croatia to successfully complete the negotiations and become a full member of the EU and what is particularly important through these bodies was a firm consensus, a consensus on Croatia's entry into the EU as a major foreign policy but also internal political goal of the Republic of Croatia. Through these bodies, it has really worked very well, toleratedly, and I must say that there is still such a spirit in the Committee on European Affairs and that it is really in one quality way, in a way that may not always be here in the Croatian Parliament, dealing with a whole series of topics of interest for Croatian citizens. It is too early for a serious court to see whether the Committee on European Affairs fully fulfils its function, but now we can talk about first impressions and we can say that these impressions are positive. The work cycle is very precise, that's what my predecessors have been talking about. I must also point out that within the board there are very correct relations and I do not know how useful it is if I commend the work of the president given that this commendation comes from the HDZ order but I think that Mr Mondekar is really doing his job very well. I would especially like to commend the professional staff, our staff, our advisors, the advisors who work on that committee, and I think that, indeed, in the conditions we have, they are doing a very good job. However, in a substantive sense, I am afraid that I cannot speak positively in the same way. I would not blame anyone here because the scope and the problem is very demanding, but in a substantive sense, not as many Member States as we have information in that first year, in the first months, they immediately fully embraced all that is needed. So, in a substantive sense, the grades will come later. Already in 2014 I think we will be able to be much more realistic and objective about the work of the board. I see three main reasons why the board still doesn't give the results it should. I'm going to start from the fact that it's really very complex matter, both in size and in content. That Croatia has actually skipped one big step by joining the EU, has achieved a new civilization step. Everything we've done so far in terms of demand has been far below what we have now, from legislative proposals, regulations, directives. It is therefore a civilizational step that is not easy to follow, and the Committee on European Affairs will certainly still have a lot of work to do with it, a lot of problems, but I believe that, at times in years of age, we will still become more serious and we will also be able to pair up in this sense with other developed and long-standing EU members. Another reason why I think the board still does not fully fulfil its role is the sub-capacitation of the administration that monitors the work of the board. And here I'm going to give a very picturesque example. The professional service of the Committee on European Affairs is about as large as the professional service of one representative in the European Parliament. So we have several advisors and one administrative secretary. And I think it is very important for fellow representatives, but also for the Croatian public, that almost every representative in the European Parliament, if so decided, can have equal accompanying services. So our entire Croatian Parliament, which is actually transferring its legislative activity to the Committee on European Affairs, is as strong in administrative terms as one representative in the European Parliament. And that is, of course, a big problem, and it is very difficult to pair up in terms of supervision and parity of other Member States that have very developed services that are accompanied by the work of the Committee on European Affairs, so we must bear in mind and regardless of all the populism and demagogy in that part, if we want to seriously monitor what is going on in the EU, we will have to step up these services, regardless of what the Committee on European Affairs will require, but without strong monitoring of the work of the representatives in terms of administrative capacity, it will be very difficult to meet seriously the role that the Committee on European Affairs has. And there is now this third reason why the Committee does not still function in the way I think it should work, it is the total domination of the Government over the Croatian Parliament, that is, the total domination of the executive rule over the legislative authority, which is not only the case in European affairs but we are witnessing that this is happening in all other areas, and therefore the Committee could really do nothing about the EU's policy and the errors that the Government has made in relations with or with certain Member States, or towards the EU as a whole. First of all, I mean the Perkovic case that was already mentioned, so entering, it happened before Croatia's entry into the EU itself when we failed what we had agreed, what we had signed and instead of going in the big door, to enter as a truly 28th star, we entered as someone who had failed to meet the agreement, who had in fact in a certain way and cheated and, of course, we are unfortunately wearing that seal in this period that we are still living in, and that is one big damage. We tried then to impose this subject through the Committee on European Affairs, to talk, but unfortunately there was no will and simple initiative of the HDZ at the time was not accepted, it was simply the Government and then, through the ruling majority here at the plenary session, made a big mistake, but here it is, which is what Croatia has to deal with today. Furthermore, the Committee does not have any competence in the control of the work of the administration when it comes to European funds. There have also been major mistakes because the almost complete management structure has been replaced by the arrival of the Kukuriku coalition to power, which is why what happened, if we were weakly withdrawing funds from European funds, however we cannot object to the committee because unfortunately it is not its jurisdiction, that perhaps we would more animate the Croatian public about it and perhaps the results after that in withdrawing funds from European funds would be better. There was also the problem of the Pelješki bridge, there were wandering by the government, from the first position that it would not go into the building of the Pelješko bridge, that it would go through the corridor, to the present position in which the government represents itself as the bearer of the initiative, but to us who have been for the Pelješki bridge from the very beginning, we are glad that there was this turn, however... it is also recognized in Brussels and therefore we have certain obstacles that we could avoid. Furthermore, when it comes to politics, the foreign policy of the government is not satisfied with the level of overall integration of the Republic of Croatia within the EU itself, not only administrative political integration is enough, it is also necessary to take a social step. Unfortunately, this government has not successfully affirmed either the EU in the Republic of Croatia, nor the Republic of Croatia within the EU, and this is, in our opinion, the biggest mistake in European policy, precisely this insufficient civilizational step in terms of a society that feels European. If you ask a citizen on the street if they feel any change today when it comes to Croatia's status, when it comes to their life, they simply don't recognize it, they still experience the EU as something far away, something foreign and too bad it happened, I connect it again and again with the way we entered, with the Perkovic case, but I believe that the years that come will still lead to certain changes and that we will really feel, not only for the citizens of Croatia, but also for the citizens of Europe, and then draw all other benefits that the EU brings with it. We are also not satisfied with the over-emphasis that this government is giving policy towards the region, towards the area of Southeast Europe. We believe that it is much more important to integrate Croatia within the EU, develop partnerships with Member States because today we are part of that space, the region is important, but we solutions for a better life, for Croatia's prosperity we will not find in the region, we will find it in the EU, this is our way, these are our allies today, this is the integration in which Croatia lives today. The region is our neighbourhood, we need to talk to them and cooperate with them, but today we are part of the EU, and from that we must draw our strength and our potential for future development. That we have not had enough affirmation within the EU itself shows the case of the election of commissioners in the new European Commission. Regardless of what is now being tried in a certain way to manipulate the thesis that we wanted to do so, it is well known that this portfolio is the least important for Croatia and that no kuna of money that goes within the EU goes through that portfolio but goes through other resors. It is a pity that we have not succeeded in obtaining either maritime and fishing or regional policy, unfortunately these have been taken by countries that have obviously been more successful in lobbying, Romania has taken regional policy, Malta fishing and maritime development, which are the ones that should have been a priority for Croatia, unfortunately we have not been able to get them. So we are critical we are really critical of the government, and when it comes to government policy towards the EU, it does not deserve a passing assessment, and as far as the committee is concerned, I have already said his work we are satisfied with, it may seem more, I have explained how and the HDZ Club will give a passing assessment of the work of the board and we will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86341	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86342	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I fully support your presentation, which prompted me for this replica more as president of the Environment Protection Committee, which together with the Committee on European Affairs held two thematic sessions, on which we discussed two important topics that we expected the government to give feedback. The first concerned the Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Directive on the possibility of Member States restricting and prohibiting the cultivation of GMOs on their territory and the conclusion of the Committee that the resolution ministries, or the Government, and the Ministry of Agriculture, will inform us of the positions of the Government when it comes to the proposal for a Regulation. However, I assume that the Committee on European Affairs has not yet received any information about the fact that the Government is wandering in part of the Republic of Croatia's position, according to that regulation. On the other hand, we also expected that the government would be manifested to the parliamentary committees on the climate policy framework for the period up to 2030 to identify the objectives that the Republic of Croatia must achieve when it comes to achieving the objectives envisaged and declared by such a framework. Even in that part of the government has not done much yet, so I agree with you that when it comes to the work of the Government on these very very important issues for the Republic of Croatia and its economy, the Government is obviously inaccessible enough to say that it is in these very important topics that are very high-level both in the work of the European Parliament and in the European Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86343	Gordan Jandrokovic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86344	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Yes, my colleague Bacic, I agree with you. I also tried to make a clear distinction during my presentation between what the government is doing and what makes this committee and how satisfied we are with the constructive, collegiate atmosphere in the committee and the effort that we all put together within that committee, so much we cannot be satisfied with the way this government treats all issues related to the EU at all, as if in the EU they did not recognise the greatest chance and for Croatia's further development, to get out of the crisis and for a large number of issues that we can address right through membership within the EU. There are numerous discrepancies, you were saying, I also mentioned some. Come on, the easy situation is that it's really extremely complex matter and it's not easy for anyone. But we have some foothold, we have some experience that we've gained through negotiations, we should have built on it further, not to bring it all down and start all over again believing that today's people in power are better quality and smarter than they were before them. So Croatia must develop a culture of continuing what was before, drawing positive experiences from the work of the predecessors and all that was good and quality should continue. Not constantly destroying and starting from the beginning, we need to get used to it and learn it and it is a simple civilizational achievement where countries of the developed West have functioned for centuries.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86345	Ante Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86346	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, my colleague Jandrokovic, in your presentation, encouraged me to do two things in this replica. The first is, and you have well concluded that we rely more on the region than on the EU as our strategic partner, and therefore, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia do not recognise it. In that second part, however, we received a European business bulletin at the 14th session of the Croatian Parliament, which is acceptable, modest and rich in information and all praises and to our President of the Parliament who welcomed us with this newsletter. In fact, the Croatian Parliament has begun to take part in the decision-making process at EU level, through mechanisms to monitor the work of the Croatian Government in the EU institutions. However, one of the tasks of the Committee on European Affairs is to consider the government's report on meetings of the EU Council. So when you see in the newsletter what the EU said last year it was about unemployment, especially among young people, growth measures, good economic and financial governance, strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises and their easier access to the financial market, competitiveness on the global market. Perhaps it would have been or would have been good if the Committee on European Affairs had warned the Government of the Republic of Croatia about such topics, and I am sure that the results in this field would have been far better for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86347	Gordan Jandrokovic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86348	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I agree with my colleague, Babic. And it is not clear to me that I must admit I was firmly convinced after we had completed the negotiations and 1.7.2013.I believed that all political forces, all energy would be directed towards Brussels and that we would really achieve a high degree, a high level of identification with the integration we entered. Instead, the significant part of the energy this government has is directed right towards the region. I repeat, the region is important as a neighbourhood, we are interested in the peace and stability of the region, we are also interested in economic co-operation but Croatia will not progress, Croatia cannot find its solutions through the region of Southeast Europe. Croatia will achieve its solutions and success, its progress exclusively through full membership in the European Union, full integration, not only in political terms, not only in economic terms, in the social sense, the civilization sense, that is the way we must go and that is the task and the Croatian Parliament, to encourage those who today lead Croatian politics, who lead and foreign policy to more of their strength, to focus their attention on Brussels and less towards Belgrade, Skopje, Tirana and Sarajevo. This does not mean that they should not be co-operated with and that they should not be helped to join the European Union. We are interested in europeanising the area of Southeast Europe but the key to the solution for Croatia is to direct our energy, our strength and in fact copying the knowledge of long-term experience, copying from those who have done so in quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86349	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86350	Thank you. Coli Jandroković, you have opened one topic that is very important for the functioning of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament, which is a question of subordination of the Croatian Parliament in relation to the executive power, to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So we can be honest and say, this subordination is not from yesterday and it is not typical only of this call, however, it was certainly an opportunity for Croatia to join the European Union to improve this relationship for the better and to bring it into a position that belongs to parliament, which is at least an equality in relation to the executive power. However, we did not take advantage of that opportunity. We have not used because unfortunately many of the bodies of this Parliament serve the Government only to give them reports which will, most of them, support the Croatian Parliament but the initiative which should come from the Croatian Parliament and which is coming on certain occasions absolutely not accepted by the executive authority. So this is one problem that I believe all parties in the Croatian Parliament are aware of but one problem that we need to solve together and find a way and a framework for the solution to this problem. Because we ourselves may be guilty of what is happening with the perception of the Croatian Parliament in the Croatian public. The Croatian Parliament should play a central role, especially as we see the entry into the European Union today, has opened up spaces that were in some way closed to the Croatian Parliament. We now have them open we can freely work on the fact that the Croatian Parliament is really as strong as the American Congress or the strength of the Bundestag Parliament in Germany or France, etc. So we really want to fix this relationship for the better, we think this is an opportunity and that it will also help us to join the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86351	Thank you. The reply to the replica Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86352	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I agree with you fellow Matušić, even this committee which has indeed gained great importance in both legal terms and within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament cannot mate with the executive authority, cannot mate with the Government. In order to be able to even the other parliamentary bodies, the other parliamentary committees, because the simple system is designed to dominate the government in a political sense as well as what I have highlighted in my presentation and in the administrative sense. We can't parley with a few advisors here with a ministry that has 100, 200 or 300 people. That is why national parliaments in the Member States, especially the European Parliament, are strongly teamed, there each MP has several advisers. There, any service can mate with the rest of the ministry, so to speak to the European Commission or to any Commissioner. So one real balance was set up. We have parliamentary democracy at this point and we are all responsible, I think what she is like today. But in order to really build a serious system, then we need to think about how the Croatian Parliament's services will be sufficiently teamed up, strong enough, ultimately have enough knowledge to be able to seriously monitor the government and balance the parliament and government. So this will not happen in itself, it will require political will under 1. But under 2. administrative capacity is also needed. So far, we don't have them, and I'm afraid none of us are even ready to open a serious debate about it because it just costs. And if we mention today that we need more funds for the Croatian Parliament of course, then we will be attacked and accused of wanting to spend state money. But here I have to explain that it is not about wages, that it is not about the privileges of MPs, that it is simply about the means that will help the Croatian Parliament work better and that we can deal with the government and that we can also deal with the challenges that the European Union brings us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86353	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86354	My dear colleague is very pleased that you will support this report, however, in some ways you resent the Government for being too active in the region and thus pulling the parallel that it is not so active in the European Union, which is simply not true. True, perhaps something of nature and you feel it, and that should be said openly, the nature of such a relationship has changed, and that should be said that we do not act as an obedient servant in Europe and as a great vizier at home, which was often the case. In fact, we are a small country and our reputation and respect in the European Union and we can achieve beyond that only in such a way as to lead a coherent, principled policy. As far as judicial cooperation is concerned, take a look at the report of the State's Attorney's Office and you will see that Croatia is cooperating in this very short period in the upper average of the European Union while much more developed countries are far away, the stronger the country cooperates much less. Here's an example, when Croatia recently requested the extradition of a man wanted by several courts, which according to the indictment, which by the way for the execution of the fine itself because the threat of antiquity in Germany refused. So, I repeat, we need to see principled policy in this way and we will be respectable in Croatia but also in the European Union and beyond.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86355	Gordan Jandrokovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86356	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Antičević, it would be good if it were true what you said but I will show you on one example that it is not quite so. Therefore, it is not necessary to act as you said to a witness in the neighbourhood or a servant in Brussels, nor has anyone ever done that before, but I find it quite unacceptable and unacceptable that Croatia has come into conflict with the European Union because of the Perkovic case, that we have risked even at one point and possible sanctions, that we have violated our relations with Germany at that time, that we have violated our hard-earned credibility due to a case linked to the liquidations of the former communist system. At the same time, today, these days you have a president of Serbia who presents the Bunjevs with Cyrillic textbooks. The Croatian minority in Serbia shares, it is a deliberate policy, so they favour those Bunjevci who do not plead as Croats, it is quite clear to everyone, except unfortunately the ruling structure here in Croatia. And then we have a reaction from the Prime Minister that says that such behavior may not be the most correct and that's all he's done. So when it came to the Perkovic case, he went into a heated conflict with Brussels. Why didn't he fight Brussels over the commissioners? Why don't you fight over some things related to the budget deficit, to the Peljeski Bridge? You have so many topics where you can show your muscles towards Brussels. But no, only about Perkovic has this government shown a desire to argue with the European Union. At the same time, I repeat, you have a case in the neighbourhood of Serbia that must now pass through dense sieves to meet the standards to enter the European Union, are scattered with very ugly statements, underestimate Croatia's state foreign policy, underestimate the Croatian minority, and there is no reaction. So you are not acting as a glider, but you are acting as a servant to those who have to negotiate with us tomorrow on the conditions under which they will enter the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86357	On behalf of HNS representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86358	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. President-in-Office of the Committee on European Affairs, colleague Mondekar. You are obviously the right man in the right place because today it seems to me that in this section around the board we all agree, we all agree that this committee is doing well, we all agree that with the work of the board so far or let's stick to 2013 which this report is satisfied, we were satisfied. I therefore will not, respecting your time, repeat everything that has been said, my colleagues have pointed out, but still allow me, on behalf of the HNS Club, four notes concerning the work of the Committee on European Affairs. The first is the relationship between the Parliament and the European Union. We are not really directly represented in the European Union and the Committee on European Affairs is our hand in Brussels, our hand in Strasbourg, our hand in all those cities in the European Union where decisions are made. We oversee the work of the Government through the Committee and we oversee the decision-making process in the European Union through the Committee on European Affairs. And there has often been a question of the role of the Parliament in public lately, what the role of the Parliament is, what it serves. It's not a Croatian phenomenon alone. You all know that our colleagues and colleagues in all European countries, in countries such as Sweden, such as Finland, such as well-developed stable democracies, have a problem with the public asking the question of the role of parliament, but in order to play a role in the public as a Parliament, as an institution, we must play a real role in decision-making processes. And since most of the decisions that concern us as members of the European Union are made in the institutions of the European Union, then our extended hand of the Parliament, which is the Committee on European Affairs in this process, is what can give the Parliament a role and can strengthen the role of the Parliament both in the public and in the media and in the perception of all those watching us. That's where I get to the second point I'd like to point out. There's already been talk about it, but I want to say something about it, too, it's strengthening the role of national parliaments. I repeat, it is not only a Croatian problem. We as an institution have a problem throughout the European Union. We are, in fact, all of us in a way, Parliamentarians, not us Parliamentarians, not us HDZ, we HNS, we SDP, we Parliamentarians of national parliaments throughout Europe, we are all kind of a stone in a shoe. Both the Council and the Commission and the European Parliament. All of them, let's be honest, I'd rather we get off their backs, if that's the kind of picture that's allowed for this pay phone. I'm sorry if you think it's more like a street talk. But we need to be aware of that, we need to be aware of that, and that is why it is the task of all of us to make sure that national parliaments retain their role. For whatever we all are here together, from whatever party we come from, agree, disagree, disagree, we are the last defense of the freedom of our country's citizens. We're here. However, we are not going to allow or allow some extreme madness and some extremely problematic things. And the Committee on European Affairs is one of these tools that gives us the opportunity to strengthen the role of our Parliament and Parliament as institutions. And I agree with my colleague Jandrokovic, what we need is strengthening administrative capacity, absolutely certain. I will print the record of this speech today, so when some time comes I really hope that this topic will eventually be in parliament, whoever the majority, whoever the minority, be me personally or not, but I hope that this issue will open up and that the Croatian Parliament will succeed in overcoming this populist approach to things that it is about privileges, that it is about spending money in vain and explain to the Croatian public that survival of the national Parliament is a national interest in the first order and that administrative strengthening of the institution is also part of the process. The third point I want to talk about is the committee's work itself, so the atmosphere on the Committee on European Affairs is a shame not to see it more often in the media and in the public. If in the Parliament, here in this assembly more often or at least once or at least occasionally, such an atmosphere of collegiality and construction would probably have a better and better picture in public. The board meets frequently, intensively, with lots of materials, well-prepared. He has many international activities. The representatives no matter where they come from work constructively plenaryly and with always the idea of national interest in the first place. We've also had luck with outside board members. They should be mentioned as well. External members of the Committee on European Affairs also make an outstanding contribution to the quality of the Committee's work and is also a special place of co-operation with other committees. The way the Committee on European Affairs has established cooperation with other committees in this House is, in fact, a binding element of the meaningful functioning of this House. So somehow through this cooperation with the European Committee as a catalyst and cooperation, the committees got a new meaning, one more quality, one better image, one better work in general. And the last point I want to talk about, but it's not the least important, but the expert service of the board has been mentioned. The board's professional service is done by people who know how to work, who want to work. There are people who are young who are able to write a great speech, a political speech in a foreign language in a very short time if it is a problem. And we often talk in Croatia about the problem of public administration personnel, and we all agree more or less that on the one hand there are too many employees in the public administration, but on the other hand that there are people with serious qualifications for certain specific tasks that we face with the knowledge and skills that are needed for a modern public and state administration to function. The European Affairs Committee is lucky to have no problem. People working in the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament meet the most modern requirements set before them, but I must be careful not to agree too often with my colleague Jandrokovic, but I must repeat, I agree with them too little and administrative capacities should be strengthened. In any case, we'll of course, we don't have to emphasize it as a look and everyone else will support the work of this committee. We hope in the future with an even stronger, even more serious role on the trail of all these moments that I have talked about and all my colleagues and colleagues who have spoken before me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86359	Joseph Salapic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86360	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Coleman, in one part of your debate, I agree, and in the other I'm a little skeptical for a few reasons. We are all aware that, compared to the EU institutions, we are fully aware of our official entry into the Union, because yet we have transferred part of our national sovereignty to the EU institutions and we cannot run from it because we are now part of the common European policy. I agree that the role of parliament, the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia should be strengthened, and we are also aware that the greater role and the greater power in the hands of the government is. It is the government that is creating a policy towards EU institutions. We are a parliamentary state, but with one slightly distorted parliamentaryism, because yet key decisions, laws and everything else that we do here depends on who the majority is. And in one part of it, you almost admitted that you lost the election, Malten, so it seemed to me. But one topic that can relate to this if we really want to restore credibility to Parliament, and our public slightly misjudges us. Look at today's assembly room. I think it would be time, the current question is that we all support each other together, along with the Parliament Presidency, a direct election of MPs, so-called. Preferential vote and return this credibility, expertise, competence and mode of work of the Croatian Parliament to the hands of the citizens. Thus, we will avoid the fact that a referendum, an initiative of various different people in Croatia has a greater role than directly, rather than representatives who have been elected under the old electoral rules, so as to get the impression that parliament has separated from its people and voters, which is not good for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86361	Igor Coleman, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86362	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. He's a colleague of Salapic's, and he is. The first part about sovereignty and strengthening the role of parliament. I don't have much to disagree with. However, I personally believe that the national parliament is an institution that has its own weight or which should have its weight, which has or should play its part in the architecture of the EU and the task of all of us parliamentarians is to defend, protect our institution's strength both against national governments and against European institutions. And in this context, I also said that the way the Committee on European Affairs is doing is certainly a contribution to this. It was a fundamental idea that I conveyed. I haven't lost you for a second, I've dropped my concentration. But just because I'm in this assembly on some issues, I'm saying that I hope that regardless of who the majority will be, and who the opposition that something is going to happen doesn't mean that I admit or hint at any kind of split-up next election, but I just want to point out that it seems to me that it's a matter that's important and that, therefore, from various political positions, we're talking about it in a similar way that we're going to be able to find final forces in some of the times that come to really come and solve the problems in the way that we're talking about them. As far as the preferential vote is concerned, the preferential vote is not really a direct vote. Direct choice would be in a way to have those candidates by name and last name in a small constituency. Okay. If we weren't to discuss the electoral system now, my personal favorite would be the so-called. A German model, for example, long before, therefore, half in proportion, half in majority. So before... that we're not really spreading the debate to the electoral system right now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86363	We tried that, too. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86364	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, President of the European Affairs Committee. It was a pleasure to listen to your report today and the agreement we heard I would say from all sides. And I'm a member of the board, at first something more active, later my activity died a little bit, but there are more reasons for that, starting with being busy on other sides, on other jobs, and also for those reasons he talked about when he talked about the substantive meaning of the Committee's work and some of the things that we ourselves couldn't solve as a committee, given the domination of the executive's decisions over any legislative or representative body, so I lost a little bit of that initial elan or enthusiasm that I still had as a member of the Committee on European Affairs or earlier of the Committee on European Integration until on 1 July, Croatia became a member of the EU 2013. When we talk about the work of the committee itself and what I was and I was at committee meetings, there is indeed one suitable, one wonderful relationship so without at all, it would never be possible to see someone on the side hear who is from which party in that committee, who represents the left, right or I do not know what attitudes but decisions and votes are also almost running in one direction. Except that some of the substantive differences that have already been made here, and I have noticed them, we may not even have been able to put on the agenda of the European Affairs Committee, except we discussed it in a slow discussion. So, by joining the EU, the Croatian Parliament has lost some of its powers on the basis of subsidiarity, and it is obliged to implement what is adopted by the European Council and then the laws prescribed by the European Parliament, and then the directives and all other regulations adopted in the EU bodies. With each of these directives being clearly considered on the Committee on European Affairs and the work is, in particular, so far, I do not know if there are any committees in the Croatian Parliament that have met several times from the Committee on European Affairs. Along with everything he met alone, board members, he communicated with other committees in the Croatian Parliament and held meetings on the international agenda, meetings. I'm not going to tell you where, it's in the report. So, one very active, proactive approach to the topic, which was based on the authority of this committee, came on the agenda. It is also true that the Committee services are not only professional, I am administratively speaking staff, but are also accurate in sending calls and in notifying all the materials that have arrived on the board or exited the board and that we always have time on our e-mails. It would be good for the Croatian public to know more about the work of the board and the public, so regardless of what is on the web pages, I think that in some way it should also inform Croatian citizens, Croatian people about what the committee is doing and what it comes to us from Europe, what regulations, directives and everything else. So not everyone uses the Internet, what is the percentage of internet literacy we all know in Croatia. So a large part of Croatian citizens do not have access to or use the Internet. Well, then it might be better to tell Croatian citizens otherwise. When we talk about the substance of the Committee's work, so the first thing that administrative staff, advisors and secretaries met as well as we representatives with large, large-scale, extensive materials that were almost daily if not from week to week came from the European Parliament, the European Council, etc. Secondly, I also advocate that further teaming up this professional service, an administrative service that would, because she said a colleague was not encapsulated in the jobs he is currently doing and which are truly huge and large. Did we discuss the Perkovic case because at the time I think we were obliged to discuss it, because we had entered a hostage crisis in which to say the kidnapper was the Prime Minister and his team, and the rest of us did not observe almost bringing sanctions against Croatia. We were, the entire Croatian people were hostage to such a crisis almost until the last day. In doing so, the HDSSB helped resolve it properly, at least that's what I think. About EU funds and trying to, here someone asked me from our citizens, from a municipality, could the school in that municipality run for environmental planning, an exterior around the school in EU funds? And it's been said that the projects have been taken and the answers are gone, and the contest is supposed to be closed. And the answers from the Ministry of Regional Development that collects these projects and programmes still do not exist. The contest is closed, no one knows, so here we are from the board, I will try to find out through you Mr. President how he ended this project at the Ministry of Regional Development. So much has been said of the Peljesk Bridge, and so much is the niece of the executive authority. We want the Pelješki bridge, we want..., we want to go to Popo's field or Trebinje, we want to join the Croatian territory here or there, after all, through the bridge is the EU's merger. Well Dubrovnik is the EU, it is part of Croatia, if there are no different opinions. Therefore, it is not only a merger between Dubrovnik coast and Dubrovnik with Croatia with Croatia, but also a merger and unification of European territory. I was talking to Mr. President about the committee taking the initiative in terms of pollution, terrible air pollution in the EU, so in Slavonski Brod and Posavina County. It is said the Ministry of Ecology, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will intervene, send some notes, so except for one or two members of the European Parliament who spoke at the plenary session on air pollution in Slavonski Brod, this other has done nothing. So the executive authority, as someone said, dominates and actually imposes what, I was saying imposing what perhaps the committee should discuss on its own initiative, but does not discuss it. I also talked about Croatia taking a position and the Committee on European Affairs, together with other committees in the Croatian Parliament, about the banking or banking union, so centralisation of national banks in one Central European Bank. Therefore, the loss of sovereignty when it comes to the CNB, thus reducing the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, and by reducing the powers of the CNB. As far as I got the information, and I don't know if we did, I wasn't at the session, Mr. Prime Minister expressed his opinion at the meeting of the EU Prime Minister that Croatia is for it. Is the Committee on European Affairs for that? Are the members of the European Affairs Committee of the Croatian Parliament for this? Did we discuss what this brings? So, the loss of sovereignty in both this banking sector and the banking sector. Who uses the expression of the Western Balkans when we are a member of the EU and when, by no means, any formation, or someone is returning us to some new Yugoslavia. Why we are constantly and overly concerned, mainly the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, just as someone here has noticed, these not only problems, but some integrations in the region, here in the region, when the Croatian Constitution clearly and loudly writes in, I do not know exactly what article, that there is no renewal or more association with the countries of the former Yugoslavia. So the Constitution. But here we have signed a regional agreement, I have learned it from the newspapers, about defence against the floods of Serbia, Croatia and BiH. When asked about compensation, and we haven't discussed it, so in flooded areas, then it is said, the prime minister says, we will seek EU aid for order. Is the committee of the same position that EU aid should be sought for order? Or we do have a disaster this year in the Republic of Croatia, not only in Slavonia, which has suffered the most, but also in Zagreb, Sisak, Karlovac and all other counties. About the damage in Gorski Kotar, we managed to resolve this together with Slovenia, but Slovenia is a member of the EU. Some countries have received EU assistance from solidarity funds, which are not EU members, we are silent. That's where I think of Serbia, which has won, say a billion euros in flood aid. He didn't... say he was going to ask for help in order, but he was looking for her. A billion euros, yes. When we elected, there I was at the session, Commissioner on behalf of the Croatian State who will say so, the Commission, we hoped and hoped that he would be in one of the functions since he was in the last term, so the same person is, in connection with that person, I am convinced, and I was in Brussels, no one has any objections to Mr Mimic really, neither in Europe nor in Strasbourg, nor in Brussels, nor in Brussels, and we do not have any specific complaints here as far as I know. And here's what we got, who it is, I'm not gonna tell the culprit, what the lobbying was, I don't know. I know Malta has received fishing, and Romania's regional policy, unfortunately here, we've got one resort that, what the Zagorci would say, and I won't be rude, it's still a debate for the Committee on European Affairs, so it seems to me that neither scream nor pass, if you're already dragging me into the language, Mr. Schuker. So, about this and about the situation, and according to the Constitution, we are obliged to worry about it, the Croats in BiH, so I also, in this way, say in a half-private conversation with the chairman of the board and with some other members here and on the solution, the constitutional solution to the BiH issue, and where the Croats... are a people, not a diaspora, and I tried to talk about it, so... about BiH, which would be the turn to discuss on the Committee on European Affairs, is there no answer, there is no debate. And we should also have an initiative as a committee, if the Government does not discuss or draw any conclusions, then the European Affairs Committee should. Regardless of the composition of the board, however much from the SDP, HDZ or no matter which parties, including the HDSSB, clearly that we as a committee could take a certain position because we express actually on the board the opinion of 151 parliamentary representatives elected, though... rather than democratically, as counterpart Salapic said, the party's election. This has now been a partitocratic government in the Republic of Croatia for 20 years because the oligarchs of the parties determine the order on the list, and then tell the peoples to choose, choose and round the number of parties. The European electoral rules are different and I am surprised that we, as a 28-European member, do not learn some things about the elections and this preferential vote that we have already twice applied in the European Parliament elections. Why should elections differ for the European Parliament, the rules, from the rules for elections to the Croatian Parliament or from being similar at least to being similar. We can discuss this and we need to discuss it as soon as possible in order to apply these new rules to new elections that will be for regular if they are, somewhere at the end of next year because the election rules must be clear one year before the election. Here today we thought that this topic would take up less time and space in this Croatian Parliament but some topics have opened up and here I have brought them to the Croatian Parliament as far as HDSB is concerned. Thank you very much and Mr. President and to you and we congratulate you on working on the Committee on European Affairs which was the way it really was not to say brilliant. We'll get the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86365	Thank you very much. Replica, Daniel Mondekar.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86366	Thank you very much. So I would use only the replica and your debate to once again invite the representatives to open it on their committees if they have any topic, a European topic or to propose to discuss it on the Committee on Europeans. But I must tell you that we did not sit on our ears when it was debated precisely on these three topics, but rather we used what belongs to us as a right, which is the hearing of the Council's Ministers of Formats, so we asked for a hearing on the Council's format... environmental protection and colleagues Dokoza brought us materials related to Slavonski Brod, pollution in Brod and presented to us on AGRIFISH on agriculture we asked for the same thing from our colleague Jakovina what was done through Brussels on that matter. Because unfortunately Croatia must coordinate its foreign policy especially with non-EU third countries through EU institutions. Through ECOFIN you mentioned this well, through ECOFIN and the Ministry of Finance hearing for the Finance Council session... we have asked to tell us about the banking union, what procedure it is, Croatia is far from it. This debate must be held in the Parliament, it cannot be brought without the assembly. I understand that political that any party can put the SDP has a view that it should be a Croatian part of banking, but it must go through the procedure. We had it on ECOFIN. And finally, the key thing is, we had an open session, and we really want as many open meetings of the Foreign Affairs Council as possible. So it was open to both the media and civil society about Ukraine, for example, and then we opened BiH. And although we all here in this Chamber and the government have a lot of similar views on the BiH issue, simply the public's interest in the two-hour session was nothing. And in the end, I agree with the previous speakers that something needs to be done about the public, but I'm going to finish it. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. So I would use only the replica and your debate to once again invite the representatives to open it on their committees if they have any topic, a European topic or to propose to discuss it on the Committee on Europeans. But I must tell you that we did not sit on our ears when it was debated precisely on these three topics, but rather we used what belongs to us as a right, which is the hearing of the Council's Ministers of Formats, so we asked for a hearing on the Council's format... environmental protection and colleagues Dokoza brought us materials related to Slavonski Brod, pollution in Brod and presented to us on AGRIFISH on agriculture we asked for the same thing from our colleague Jakovina what was done through Brussels on that matter. Because unfortunately Croatia must coordinate its foreign policy especially with non-EU third countries through EU institutions. Through ECOFIN you mentioned this well, through ECOFIN and the Ministry of Finance hearing for the Finance Council session... we have asked to tell us about the banking union, what procedure it is, Croatia is far from it. This debate must be held in the Parliament, it cannot be brought without the assembly. I understand that political that any party can put the SDP has a view that it should be a Croatian part of banking, but it must go through the procedure. We had it on ECOFIN. And finally, the key thing is, we had an open session, and we really want as many open meetings of the Foreign Affairs Council as possible. So it was open to both the media and civil society about Ukraine, for example, and then we opened BiH. And although we all here in this Chamber and the government have a lot of similar views on the BiH issue, simply the public's interest in the two-hour session was nothing. And in the end, I agree with the previous speakers that something needs to be done about the public, but I'm going to finish it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86368	Thank you very much. I hope that the rapporteurs from the Parliament will write something that is today discussed or reported to the public, not on topics that are not content. Boro Grubisic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86369	My colleague Mondekar, however you intervene and we intervene and through the Committee on European Affairs or the Ministry of Agriculture in Slavonski Brod, smells, smells, smells, and so it remains and we have achieved nothing. I insist that we continue, so we're working on saying what to say in the Bosnian stock market to get rid of it once. And as for BiH and knows and here's a colleague waving that the Deion Agreement has become both ineffective and even a distraction to BiH's development because it must define a new state in BiH agreement or I don't know what, with a clear constitutional provision in the Croatian Constitution that Croatia takes care of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and that a certain position must be taken. Unfortunately, it seems to me that Europe itself is not clear what to do with BiH, and a little bit of America, but we know the situation in BiH much better than they are a thousand kilometers of the common border, and many of us are from there, and very often we have contacts with people from BiH every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86370	We move to an individual debate, colleague Ivan Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86371	I am speaking as an individual debate on this topic of the report on the Committee on European Affairs. I would agree that the report was correct but I would also agree with Mr Jandrokovic that it could be better and that some things should have been highlighted, although I am not a member of the board. I am afraid that our gap with the EU is still significant and that we are lagging behind in many fields when it comes to Croatia and also about Parliament and the Government with what is happening in Europe. We have an eclectic example of two events that are historical, this is aggression in Ukraine, the secession of Crime on the one hand, and on the other hand we have one civilizational process of separating Scotland from England, the UK where everything happens at the level of dialogue, mutual respect without any tensions and passions. I would so like Croatia to be one balance between what is happening to us and in this House and what is happening in Croatia itself with what is happening in the United Kingdom, to be more in the mood for a tolerance dialogue rather than for the disputes and occupations of other people's opinions. Unfortunately, we also had a lot to expect before joining the European Union that we were always full of desire and a little bit of what the song said, and now that the people are wondering what we got and if we're part of Europe silent and we're not getting to say anything. Now it's still heating up so-called. Europe contributes to Croatia through grants but only one big promise still stands without any concrete effects. Now I'm afraid that the people's "Trust in and in their beaks" should be realized, as the flood of one and the other showed, that the most contributed were those of whom were least expected but were defending their own threshold, their own house not to enter the water. The biggest difference between our situation and what is happening in a developed Europe is building a personality. Without that personality, the recognizability of a person as a person with values, we will not go far with all the work of a committee or certain institutions. That work on me I know how to say doesn't last long but only as long as we're alive. And those who think they've made their personality come true for them right now don't have anything I say because they're convinced of their infallibility and their attitude that they don't question. I think it's dangerous and that it distances us from the spirit of what pervades modern-developed Europe, which is the spirit of tolerance, true dialogue and respect for humanity and human rights. In fact, our civilization so I at least look at two disadvantages. A lack of humanity and a lack of spirituality. We are re-religious but a little spiritual. Spirituality is not ritual, tradition, but spirituality is a way of life, original human and Christian values. Here I would like us to grow up and contribute to this development of Croatia in an ethical, spiritual and human sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86372	Thank you too, colleague. And colleague Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86373	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I'm joining all those positive thoughts about the work of the board itself. But I must say that we in the Croatian Democratic Community have seen the work on this committee as a continuation of the work we had on the National Monitoring and Negotiation Committee. So this is how we understand it and this is how we behave in the work of the Committee on European Affairs because we believe that it is an extremely important working body of the Croatian Parliament that can really articulate a policy that can be undertaken under consensus. And in this sense absolutely that we can express our praise for the work of the committee itself from the topics that come to the board. However, I will continue where I left off when I replicated my colleagues to Jandrokovic and when we opened this topic of subordination of the Croatian Parliament in relation to the executive power, that is, the government. Colman said something about this, however, it is not possible to compare the role played by the Croatian Parliament towards the Government of the Republic of Croatia in relation to a Bundestag, which is according to the executive authority and the Chancellor in Germany. Namely, I'll just remind you of some details that were related to our negotiations. In particular, we have waited very often for what will happen on committees or on foreign policy or on European affairs committees in individual parliaments of the Member States because it was crucial. So it was crucial that the committee, what decision will be taken by the Committee on European Affairs or by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the closure of certain chapters in the negotiations between Croatia and the European Union. So we don't have that role in the Croatian Parliament today. I'm going to give you one example that unfortunately has promoted our committee as well as the whole of the Parliament. It is a question of the screening of Serbia that some countries have had certain objections to. In this process, Croatia could clearly express its disdain over the law that Serbia, or the Serbian parliament, has passed concerning their jurisdiction over the countries of the former Yugoslavia, legal jurisdiction. On that basis, as you know, Veljko Maric is in Serbian prison today. Under that law. Under this law and by this basis for which we have not had any objections during the screening, let's say Vladimir Seks and some other persons from Croatian public life against whom the former so-called. The Yugoslav People's Army in the '90s filed charges. So, yes, I also went to Yugoslavia because I can say freely and perhaps a little bit and provocatively, today many say public perception is pretty negative about Croatia's entry into the European Union because of the problems we face because we are not as capable as Johannes Han said a few days ago, we are not able to withdraw funds from funds, so we have to go back to Yugoslavia because some are not even aware, and they have not accepted that they live in Croatia, and even less to live in the European Union. So it is absolutely certain that this entry of Croatia into the European Union has not been used well enough and has not been used for the reason that the current government has not created those strategic documents which would be the basis for withdrawing funds from European funds. You cannot ask for funds from European funds if the state does not have a strategy that is in line with the European Union strategy, especially now with the 2014-20 strategy and there is a problem. And when Minister Grcic said that the problem with software he said exactly the problem was with software, he just probably didn't mean that the software was himself and his associates. That's the problem. It is a software that ensures that there is an opportunity to apply and withdraw funds. Why didn't we withdraw the funds, I think the Croatian public must know. We have not brought strategies, the Transport Strategy of Croatia is now changing, and of course this change has to do with the highway towards Dubrovnik because the current Transport State Strategy will try to move the route of highways that is now both in the Transport Strategy of Croatia and in the spatial plans of lower rows, meaning county, municipalities and cities. So now they're going to try to change that, instead of the Government of the Republic of Croatia pushing for it, it could have been debated on our board, that the Adriatic-Ionian road, exactly the corridor of the Adriatic-Ionian road, this part of the highway that goes to Dubrovnik.... Well we are a member of the European Union, it is often heard that someone from the Commission or not gives us the European Union, the European Union will not support it. So we are the European Union, let us impose such solutions and that is the responsibility of the government. Instead of changing our strategies and actually giving up our national interests, we need to impose our interests on the national and strategic European Union, or the European Commission, and there will be no problem if I are unique, if we are clear to the European Union. No one says it can be none of the European Commission or the European Union's say that the Plač highway towards Dubrovnik cannot be part of the Adriatic-Ionian highway, none of them have said or ever said so. This only comes now from some strange institutions, unknown institutions and some strange talks, agreements between our prime minister and some prime ministers from neighbouring countries that are not members of the European Union. So the same thing we had with the bridge. I'll remind you that this government initially said it would not build that bridge, very clearly said. The same thing we had identically, and then finally we had to wait for the opinion of an advisory company that said it was the best solution to the bridge. What we knew down there for years and what we outlined in our plans and what we were looking for and what we said was objective and what the citizens of the Croatian south were looking for. Therefore, I am glad that these positions have changed as far as the bridge is concerned, but I am not glad that some new initiatives appear around the highway. And to make it clear to the Croatian public, who does not know where this highway route is going, it does not go up the coast and does not go into taverns, does not go between houses etc. On the contrary, it solves the problem because the current problem is the highway towards Dubrovnik. Let a date happen in one place, especially in Zaton small or large or somewhere around Orasca, Dubrovnik is a blocked city. You don't have any access to Dubrovnik anymore. So by solving this crucial problem with the help of the European Union, I think that we can be in a much better situation and therefore use it that way. I hope my colleague Mondekar that we can discuss this and the Transport Strategy because while I was an observer in the European Parliament, I know well that in the Committee on Transport, concerning the main corridors, the experts from the Commission and the Committee on the fact that the Croatian South can fit in very well and that it fits into the basic network of highways and corridors. Why? Because the obligation of Member States to neighbouring Member States that are not Member States is to connect with that country by means of a single main corridor. In our case, it is Montenegro, so it will connect with Croatia. So the basic corridor must go across the south of Croatia and it is certainly justified to ask the European Commission for support for the project and to go to Croatian territory, not to do such nonsense as was the case for these preliminary talks between the prime ministers. Here, in that sense, I think I've made myself clear enough to support the report, of course, because we consider it good, quality. The administrative capacity has already been talked about, I wouldn't repeat my colleagues. Your work as president is also commendable and we think that you can, but try to open these topics that are very important, so the topics of the relationship between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament, because through this body that we really consider to be the body of the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations, so we consider the body in which we need to be a permanent consensus, then we try to improve these relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86374	Thank you. The final word of the President of the Committee on European Affairs of Honored Daniel Mondekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86375	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank you all for the debate we had this morning. I thank you all for opening up some more topics. You've actually given a boost to what we should do in the future. I thank all my colleagues for their advice. I thank my colleague Jandrokovic for his commendation, and everything will be fine that you commended me. I also commend you because it is really pleasant to co-operate in a committee where there really is a national consensus that these are important topics for the Republic of Croatia and for the interests of the Republic of Croatia, although these are often non-interesting topics. Still, as the devil is said to be in detail, millions of euros and jobs can be cut. And that's what we in the Committee on European Affairs have seen in a few examples and regulations and directives. As for the debate on the future, of course we need to open up more and more political debates. I'll tell you what I absolutely agree with and I think we should do in the next six months. Indeed, there should be a debate on the continuation of trans-Atlantic talks between the US and the EU, especially in order to see how this will concern Croatian producers and jobs in Croatia and potential for Croatia. I still owe my colleagues and the session on lobbying and informal decision-making systems in the EU. This is something with which Croatia, with the administrative capacity of the EU coordination that is very well mentioned here, has yet to adapt. And as often as it is, I have already said 500 times in this House, well less than that, but also stated that we need to know that the things in Croatia to us, for example as advocates, are immoral or forbidden to do, does not mean that this is the case for colleagues from Germany, Great Britain or that such rules apply in Brussels. But we'll discuss it in the thematic session. Of course, what my colleague Holly said about the circular economy as the novelty of the green economy is becoming... in the European Union. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] That too needs to be discussed on the committee. The future of the EU, especially after Juncker's programme, and you probably read Juncker's programme and saw that man has ideas that go beyond what Barroso has done in the last two Commissions, and his choice of the Commission, this clustering of the Commission, the introduction of seniors, juniors, veto rights and regulatory scissors in the Commission says that this will be an absolutely different Commission, that the European Union will take a different direction over the next five years including whether we will have to discuss here and the already hidden federalism through the Energy Union, through the fiscal union. Not through banking, but through fiscal that we already have a slow path to stronger federalisation within the EU. Of course, in the coming years, you have the Europe 2020 that you mentioned halfway. And this Parliament must discuss, and the President of the Parliament is inclined to have a conference on the subject, that the Parliament has a conference on Europe 2020 and a strategy, because as soon as it has been adopted, a whole series of documents including the entire legal act of the single market in the EU have been amended. And just so you know and programming Croatian funds that are still going on is tailored to the Europe 2020 strategy. But, well, I'll touch that a little later. But here's another thing we need to agree between us, and that's to raise some of the topic to the plenary session. I think that members of the European Affairs Committee also have no problem putting part of the topics of the Europeans on the plenary session of the idea of having a fellow Mimica attend a plenary session, from the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and who follows knows how much this political topic is brought to the plenary session. Because after the first debate at the Commission, after the debate in Parliament, after the new text of the Greek Presidency, i.e. My colleague Juncker's presidency wants that back in a different direction now. The Parliament will also have to discuss this because it is intruding into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. Until the end of the European Semester and the Adriatic-Ionian macro-regional region as a new region. Because Croatia is becoming a member of the two macro regions of the Danube and the Adriatic-Ionian region and needs to be discussed. This is so few in the Croatian media and our entrepreneurs know so little about it, it often raises the question of who joined the EU. And I'd like to dedicate maybe one minute to that. As the Republic of Croatia will operate in membership of the words of colleagues from Germany, our fellow committee president and colleagues from Sweden say look, it took us 3 to 5 years. You're gonna need the same thing. What's three to five years? 3 to 5 years to strengthen the capacities of a) the EU coordination of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Where? Here and in Brussels. Ours is... So our permanent representation is still small. [[The speaker spoke English, not understood.]] The Croatian Parliament has one person in the European Parliament, the Office of the Croatian Parliament employs one person. And there's a colleague, Jandrokovic, right. If they asked another person to go up there, there'd be a problem. The German Parliament has 20 people and some people in the European Parliament, not to tell all other institutions how capacitated they are. And every Monday after regular meetings, this person sends us reports of what is happening in the European Parliament. And we have this information all the time, but we simply lack those capacities. What is the future and how I see the future doesn't have to be, but the future of European affairs is that Croatia comes to EU documents in a draft phase. Sometimes the European Commission lets them into the process, so it takes first days to translate, so it goes eight weeks for subsidiarity, and then we start doing positions. Not in a draft phase to get them in the Commission, and until the Commission has let them in the public opinion that they are already starting to deal with the government, but also with the Parliament, because I also see that more MPs should be involved in Parliament's positions, but also with all other actors. When you look at how it works, say, Germany, when the position comes to the government, i.e. The document, the draft document of the commission, referred it to the academic community and referred it to the business sector. Include the civil sector, the academic sector and the business community in the process of reaching conclusions at the end, the position of the state and the conclusion. And Parliament as Parliament agrees that it must become a centre of excellence that will one day co-create a position because at this point in time, views are created at the levels of the ministry. And these people are also sub-optimized, in terms of not enough people, and these people are being paid off and they do serious work, they know languages and they have serious schools behind them. And we're going to have to all, all the political parties about it unite that we have to squeeze there that our people who do eu jobs to get more and to get better paid. It's a serious job. Because at the end of the day when a document passes by council working groups and goes to committees and moves towards the corrupter and begins this famous trilogue which actually means that the council, parliament and commission are starting to work together very quickly on the document, the national parliaments are finished. We no longer have the opportunity to influence. That's why it's important to get into business with as many people as possible. And here, of course, I agree, capacities should be raised at all levels. Both in Zagreb and Brussels, and formally and informally. And here we finally come to what is a colleague, Jandrokovic, and he said well, who joined the EU, there was a conference just before the day it actually concluded that when you look at both the media and the general picture in the EU are politicians, in the EU there are some businessmen, some cities, municipalities and some associations of citizens. But then when you realize that the conference on EU positioning is the impact of the business sector in the EU open to the public and one company came in, three associations and one medium then the question is again, so the good people we work for? But it points to us, who's to blame for what some like to say, the EU was an elite political project for whom? Us, colleagues Kosor, colleagues Jandrokovic, me, who? And he likes to point fingers and say it was an elitist project of political elites, so we're in the EU. But that's not true. Educations were conferences, workshops open to everyone to understand what the EU is. Here he is, two days ago... Lithuania presented in Croatia how Lithuania affects decision-making processes in the EU. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So again, I say, half-empty hall. And it will need to work further on popularising what European jobs are. And in the end, I'll be honest with you about the funds, although I haven't been following the funds for a while, we have a parliamentary committee that is actually for regional development and EU funds for 2013 and how much an allocation from 2013 has been spent, and I can say that I'm satisfied with the reason that we've broken through the amount we've paid and how much we've gotten, especially when we're taking it for environmental, environmental protection, support for small entrepreneurship and education, we've broken that amount. We'll see about 2014-2020. Because here, last week, I was following the situation in Brussels and communicating with my colleagues directly from the European Commission, of 200 and some of the operational programmes that 28 EU members sent to Brussels 204 or 205 were sent back to further development. One is accepted. With the European Commission also acknowledging that it will be a little late throughout the process, but I agree that when operational programmes are accepted, operational programmes will be presented to parliamentarians. Joint session of the Committee on European Affairs and the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds. Let's see what is finally right now, because it is precisely the second round of negotiations that is agreed with the European Commission. And in the end, as far as the European Commission is concerned, I'm just telling you to follow the future. A colleague, Mimica, at the end of which I would like him to come to the Parliament once again after the Commission passes the European Parliament. Because nothing is done yet, for several candidates there is open opposition to the European Parliament's part proposed by counterpart Juncker. But what's important is that the commission consists of 6 + 1 actually vice presidents, 7 teams in which, if you've noticed little all the team leaders except the High Representative for Foreign Policy come from small countries, so all the vice-presidents come from small countries and will de facto have the power to filter and maybe even veto over proposals made by Commissioners who are from larger countries. It's a very interesting change in direction that my colleague Juncker made in relation to his colleague Barroso for the commission. Small countries, whether it will pass in the European Parliament and whether the council will agree to this we will see but its current proposal is that small countries are thus controlling the larger ones. And my colleague Mimica is in a very interesting resort where there is outside assistance, neighborhood, so the region, enlargement, as well as trade. And that team of people will work together. I am convinced, because I did not, let's face it, in personal communication with my Brussels colleagues, expect regional development because 28 countries, the last one, entered a year ago and one of the smaller ones, were personally not too clear to me to get a third of the EU budget to control. But we will see what this new composition of the commission will look like and I think Croatia will benefit greatly from it. And finally, something that I agree with half, the question of where Croatia is in the Union and how the Union sees us. Yes the truth is, Croatia invests a lot in the region, Croatia plays a big role in the region but again I will say in direct communication with people from the environment of the new commission president himself and sees us as the main bridge towards the region and sees Croatia as one of the tasks to oversee, assist and be a factor of stabilisation on the way of the rest of the region in the EU. After all, even colleagues from the European Parliament said Col. Barroso had suggested that representatives from..., which are in the case of Croatia, counterpart Plenkovic, vice-president of the Committee on Foreign Policy, counterpart Picula and colleague Jozo Rados, with his experience that Croatia has somehow involved in issues... especially the crisis in Ukraine. What is here is a question that, along with this... allegedly, under the quotes of our role in the region, we raise our presence in other areas and policies of the EU. The Adriatic Ionian macro-region of Croatia opens energy and transport, and therefore it will be important for the Parliament to discuss it. We must find our niche in the next few years in Brussels. I thank all of you for the debate, I am open to the committee to discuss further key EU policies. I call on all MPs, look directly at the documents received, really come from Brussels every day, there are a whole series of non-legislative acts that can also be discussed thematically on parent bodies. I thank all the members of the Committee on European Affairs who attended the sessions, did the work and we had, we used to have a few sessions a week. I call on the media to monitor the open sessions of our committee, to small and popularise European affairs, and finally, thanks to our officers of the European Affairs Committee, there are indeed fewer than a Europarliamentary has its own advisers. For example, in the French Senate, there are 18 people on European affairs alone. So, the Committee on Finance for the European Story 18 people. So, the lion part of the job is done by our colleagues and I thank them very much in the closing sentence for the effort and the time spent. And thank you again to all of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86376	Thank you. We have two replicas. First honoured Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86377	Thank you. My colleague Mondekar, in order for you not to be misunderstood, when you said you did not expect Croatia to get 40% of the European budget on Commissioners in the European Commission, Croatia would not get anything that does not belong to it through an institutional framework, so we would only get an influential person in such a significant place. So, and Croatia would not get such a cake of the EU budget, it would be great, but of course it is impossible and is not in the spirit of European membership. Secondly, you mentioned this example of Lithuania, where Lithuania explained how it affects politics. Well, we have to figure it out, that's what I'm talking about. We need to understand that we are the co-creators of European policies and that we are the ones who need to impose solutions, not that they are imposed on us by someone from the EU, it is simply unacceptable. We need to understand that we are co-creators and that our solutions are expected, they expect it. So who's going to tell us where the Adriatic-Ionian highway corridor is going if we don't impose it ourselves? And we ourselves, or the Croatian Prime Minister, are running away from it, talking about some crazy ideas, I'm going crazy for Croatia. Let's make this our solution and agree with you, let's discuss it at the plenary session. Let's go to topics that are important to the Croatian public, which should know what Croatia advocates on certain European solutions, let's discuss at the plenary session, I agree, let's agree on what these topics are. You will still have our consensus, but let's agree and let's challenge all the forces to get solutions that match Croatia's strategic national interests, and not to give up on them like the Adriatic-ion highway towards Dubrovnik that can only improve and develop that area, and in no way else, will not destroy it, absolutely certainly not destroy it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86378	Second replica, Lucky Iron Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86379	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You inspired me because on three occasions you mentioned the area of which I was professionally deformed, so I felt it was necessary to say two words. I normally think that in this tripartite, if I may say, the division or connection in the joint venture, the academic community may be underly engaged, and we should probably use those capacities that the academic community has. But on the other hand, it seems to me that the academic community has also been subscribed to those jobs that we are very much in need of, and I would therefore suggest or ask you to demand that in the academic community there be a significant presence of topics that we are talking about and we are existentially related to, not only as a parliamentary representative but also as chairman of the board, to stimulate graduate or postgraduate studies from the relevant fields, to open up the possibility of, say, forming postgraduate studies that don't have to be... or..., specialist postgraduate studies, let's say that the subject is open and then working on a specialist study of 4 weeks or 2 months or 6 months. So, to form centers that will serve, not only our needs but also that will come with appropriate initiatives or an academic community for it quite capable. And those centers that would be just the same, as the real ones say today, i.e. who would have permanent employees and also participate in the teaching and the relevant analyses, even more centres that would be virtual, i.e. who would have co-workers from different areas and in this way... could act, and One more sentence from the chairman. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] And that comes to mind especially what we are about to discuss on the development strategy of education and science.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86380	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We move to the report on the work of the European Affairs Committee. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. A report on the work of the European Affairs Committee for 2013 is hereby adopted. Please vote. First I ask for some peace, and then I ask the Technical Service to maybe reset this device. Let's try it now. I need to call technical services. Let's try it now. But we won't try a million times if it doesn't go, I'm asking the Assembly's technical service to come up to the gallery. We're waiting for technical services. So, colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to ask for some concentration and some peace. We will now vote on the report on the work of the Committee on European Affairs by raising hands. Who's in? Does anyone mind? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. The conclusion was accepted unanimously by 117 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86383	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Before you is the Annual Report of the Competition Protection Agency for 2013. It is a very extensive document, so I will try to single out only the main features of the Agency's work here in 2013 which has been a break in the 17-year work of that body, especially because of a significant change in the legal framework in which the Agency acts after Croatia's accession, so after 1.7.2013. The Agency's work last year marked in particular the transfer of competences for state support from the Agency to the European Commission, the extension of the Agency's competence in the competition segment and the direct application of EU competition law, the introduction of some new competition institutes, the establishment of the jurisdiction of the High Administrative Court as a court which controls the legality of the Agency's decisions and, technically, a significant increase in the number of resolved cases, further excerpts of expert staff, changes in presidents and most members of the Competition Protection Council, as well as a reduction in the costs of the Agency. So let's start by changing the legal framework in which the agency acts after Croatia joins the EU. Croatia's accession to Union membership has ceased to be in charge of granting, monitoring and returning state aid. This competence has been fully transposed to the European Commission in accordance with EU rules, which has introduced Croatia into a general scheme of application of the State aid rules applicable to all Member States. Following this, according to the 2013 Law, In the State aid segment of last July, the Agency's State Aid Act only carried out advisory and intervention activities in the State Communication Support segment towards the European Commission. Let us mention this here and such a legal solution in practice did not prove very appropriate, proved to be slow and difficult for donors and recipients of support in Croatia and are only as information in April 2014.All transactions related to state support are also transferred to the Ministry of Finance. The ministry has taken over from the agency all seven experts working on these jobs, on state aid operations along with all the items, with all the equipment and financial resources. Since April 2014, the Agency has been responsible solely for the protection of competition and concentration control activities, or for those for which it was established in 1995. However, when we talk about support, let us look back on the structure of the case in that segment. In particular, there is a negative trend in increasing the number of support granted to individual entrepreneurs compared to the number of support granted for horizontal targets according to programmes aimed at previously unknown users. Thus, in 2013 there was still an emphasis on the selective character of state aid, reducing the positive effects of the support granted both on economic growth and on increasing the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. With EU membership and the adoption of a new Law on the Protection of Competition in 2013 the Agency's competences in the section of competition protection and concentration control have been significantly expanded. The most important change is that since 1 July 2013, the agency has become responsible for the direct application of EU competition law in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The Agency has thus become competent to apply Articles 101 and 102, in addition to national rules on prohibited agreements and abuses of the ruling position, in parallel to national rules under the Competition Protection Act. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU and the provisions of Regulation 1/2003 on the application of the rules on competition. The Agency must act in all those cases where some behaviour of Croatian entrepreneurs could have a significant effect on trade between the Republic of Croatia and the EU and its members. However, in the event that an entrepreneur considers that it is exclusively an infringement of Articles 101 and 102. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU can now be addressed directly to the competent Croatian Commercial Court by which the Agency loses its monopoly on the application of rules on competition. In such cases, the agency may appear before the court amicus leakae. In the area of concentration control, Croatian entrepreneurs are now following a 1.7. each concentration which has an EU dimension is obliged to report to the European Commission which is responsible for assessing such concentrations. Very simplified because there is a whole series of conditions, it is generally believed that the colloktijal wording in the European dimension has all those concentrations that have an effect on the markets of at least three Member States. In accordance with Regulation No 139/2004 on the control of the concentration of Commission entrepreneurs and the concentrations declared to it, it is necessary to submit complete applications to all Member States, competition authorities of the Member States and, of course, the Croatian Agency, and the Agency must then examine the applications submitted for the so-called so-called ‘registration’. the system of sending concrete concentration to the resolution of either the Commission or the agency of another Member State or Croatia may express an interest which must explain that it itself assesses that concentration in whole or in part. In addition, at the request of the European Commission or of the Agency any Member State, the Agency must organise unannounced searches in the area of the Republic of Croatia. This means that it must obtain an order from the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia and that the Agency's experts must carry out this search for the account of the Commission or of a Member State, so the Croatian Agency must provide the Agency with a sufficient number of staff which may be a problem and, of course, appropriate digital forensic equipment. The extension of competences and tasks for the result has been described to have significantly strengthen international cooperation between the Agency and the authorities of the Commission and the Member States. It is an intensive co-operation on a daily basis, which is usually carried out through ISN through the European Network of Competition Protection Bodies, which is, of course, an additional challenge for the Agency. In addition, since 1 July 2013, the agency has again become competent to protect competition and control concentrations in the credit institutions and credit unions sector, which transactions from me and legally difficult to explain since 2003, have been carried out by the Croatian Bank. So the agency was doing it until 2003 if I'm not mistaken then the Croatian Bank took over to get back to the agency now. Therefore, the Agency had to prepare itself for action on this specific and very demanding market. In accordance with the practice of the European Commission and most of the national agencies and Member States, a new Law on the Protection of Competition from 2013 was introduced which English term is very simple, it is called comitent. And it is important that the agency accepts the proposal of the entrepreneur against whom it is self-initiatively committed to suspend immediately breaking the rules and also proposes measures to restore effective competition in that market where infringements occurred. It is a very efficient and economic institute which in a very short time corrects a market disturbance at the minimum cost for the agency, i.e. for the state and taxpayers and minimum costs for entrepreneurs. However, this institution cannot always be applied, it can only be applied under very strictly prescribed conditions, and that will only be the rule if the entrepreneur sends this proposal to the agency at a very early stage of the procedure unless it is the most difficult forms of breach of the Competition Protection Act and, as a general rule, if the proposal published on the Agency's website is not opposed by interested entrepreneurs. In addition, in 2013, the agency conducted the first unannounced search of the business premises of entrepreneurs due to suspicion of a cartel price agreement. Disclosure and sanctioning of cartels including cross-border cooperation is one of the priorities in the Agency's work, as it is precisely cartel agreements on prices and cartel agreements on the division of customers or markets that cause the greatest and direct damage to consumers and the economy as a whole. According to the European Commission's estimates, the price that determines the cartel is generally 20 to 30% higher than the market price that the product would normally have. This is because the cartel negotiates the price as a rule at the level of costs of the most inefficient cartel members. Therefore, it should be borne in mind that there are no small or naive cartels, as their participants are fully aware that they are making extra profits through their agreement to the detriment of consumers. However, the Agency's ability to carry out such unannounced searches has been technically very limited and the reason for this was the lack of modern equipment for digital forensics and the inability to obtain it due to budgetary constraints. However, thanks to the understanding of the finance minister, these restrictions are now being removed and 198,000 kunas for supply and state-of-the-art forensic equipment are now being granted to the agency and the most favourable bidder is being selected. Namely, it is that digital forensic equipment is constantly progressing, entrepreneurs are developing their systems, the agency must have a system that can therefore withdraw data from theirs, so break through their protection. The draft Law on the Protection of Competition also established the exclusive jurisdiction of the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia in the control of the legality of the decisions of the Agency. The High Administrative Court is also responsible for issuing orders for unannounced searches at the request of the Agency, the European Commission or the Member States. Such a legal solution of jurisdiction under the allegations of "one court" in practice proved to be very effective. On the one hand, given the relatively small number of lawsuits against the Agency's decisions, it allows for the specialisation of a number of judges in extremely complex legal economic matters of competition's right. On the other hand, the jurisdiction of only one court also allows for swift justice which is in the dynamic conditions in which entrepreneurs operate in most cases condicio son qua non their survival on the market. In fact, the length of the procedure could also lead to the Court's decision not to be delivered to anyone because the entrepreneur in whose favour the decision was taken is no longer on the market. Such a legal solution of a court is also very useful because of the speed of issuing orders for unannounced searches, which is very important. The agency's new tasks and powers resulted in a significant increase in the number of cases. Such an increase, along with a simultaneous outflow of experts, poses a major challenge for the agency. Thus, a total of 680 cases were resolved in the reporting period and as much as 70% higher than in 2012 when 390 cases were solved. The main causes of such a huge increase in the number of cases are the following. First of all, the number of opinions requested from the agency by donors and support recipients increased by as much as 47% compared to the previous year in the expectation of the transfer of competence for granting state support from the agency to the European Commission. In doing so, the Agency has stepped up its activities by closing all those state aid cases in which recipients and state support providers have been fully passive for a year or more. The second is the cause of a significant, extremely large number of subjects related to concentration control tasks, above all to the reference of a large number of notifications that I spoke about earlier. Notification of concentrations by the European Commission which is a whole new job for the Agency and only in the last 6 months, so from 1.7 to 31.12.2003 resulted in the fact that the agency received even 145 notifications from the European Commission which had to be examined in detail from the point of view of their possible impact on competition on Croatian markets. On the other hand, 300% also increased the number of reports of concentrations assessed exclusively by Croatian regulations. So, while everything was reported in 2012 and only five concentrations were evaluated in 2013, as many as 20 were reported. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that in most cases it was about very complex and sensitive concentrations such as Agrokor Mercator, HT-Optima, Tisak, I-Novine which required a very sophisticated approach and the implementation of highly complex economic and legal analyses. One of the remarks made by the Committee on the Economy on our report is that the Agency did not state in this report the number of pending cases at the end of 2013. A completely justified remark. However, to try to explain, this is because the specificities of the procedure carried out by the Agency because of these specificities do not really exist objects that we could call unsettled in terms of some neglect of work on objects or their cooling, as it is flatly perceived by the body of the state administration. The specificity of the procedure before the Agency is that the procedure is very complex and generally has 100 or more procedural actions, so that the procedure cannot be initiated at all before the Agency carries out a comprehensive economic analysis of the structure and situation on a concrete relevant market suspected of a disturbance. Since the amount of fines in the form of administrative and criminal measures imposed by the Agency is not limited, there is no ceiling. The ZTN, the Law on the Protection of Competition on the one hand, confers a very broad procedural right against the parties to the proceedings in order to defend themselves, and requires the Agency on the other hand to exercise extreme caution in the conduct of the proceedings, and therefore all lawyers who conduct proceedings under the Law on the Protection of Competition must have a judicial examination, and those who impose administrative and criminal measures must also have a minimum qualification to be given by the judge of a criminal court, which is at least 4 years of standing in legal proceedings after a judicial examination. I don't think there's any such conditions in any government body. The procedures against the cartel add to the specificity of the procedure so that cartel members cannot even assume that the Agency collects evidence of their illegal activity. In such cases, however, the agency often has to act around and temporarily suspend its activities while waiting for the cartel to make a move that could be the key evidence of its existence. You can guess, but you have to have what we say is a smoking gun to prove it. As cartel members are generally numerous, this makes it even more difficult to find evidence and procedures, especially in the context of the call for oral maintenance, and then the main discussions and hearings of a large number of parties and witnesses. I think it best paints the case not from Croatian practice, though, but from the European Commission's practice, this is the case of the bank cartel in Austria, so-called. The Lombard Club, in which the undercover procedure lasted a total of nine years. And finally let's say that in the control of the concentration of entrepreneurs, the length of the procedure is already limited by law to 30 days plus 3 months so that it is not possible to speak at all about pending cases here, but for transparency we say that on 31.11.2013 the agency had 33 unclosed administrative cases, with the fact that 20 cases were closed to date. There are 13 open ones left where some data is expected from the parties we're up against. However, what is usually forgotten is the fact that implementing rules on the protection of competition is only one of the roles of the Agency. The second, equally important role of the Agency is the role of the Agency as the creator of a culture of competition and an active advocate of the benefits that effective competition between entrepreneurs brings to consumers. The Agency shall carry out its role among other things by issuing an opinion on the enquiries of entrepreneurs and institutions, including opinions on laws and other regulations. The most common areas covered by requests and opinions in 2013 were telecommunications, postal services, municipal services, areas of public procurement, conditions and procedures in public procurement, performing health activities, financing of public scientific institutes, etc. In 2013, the agency issued a total of 144 opinions in the field of competition, and in addition, a total of 251 opinions and indications were adopted by the Agency in the field of state aid last year. How significant these opinions are I will try to illustrate. I would like to remind you that in the liberalisation of the market, the taxi service agency played a key role by issuing several opinions and showing several models of possible solutions, which, for example, in Zagreb alone, led to a reduction in taxi service prices by 40% while increasing service quality. In 2013, the Agency's expert staff drain continued so that the number of employees was reduced from 57 to 53, down by 11%. However, as already mentioned, despite such a significant reduction in the number of experts, the enthusiasm of their workers, the agency managed to cope with an enormous increase in the number of cases related to completely new jobs that it could not plan and solved as many as 70% more cases compared to 2012. However, it should be warned that the short term cannot be counted on only the enthusiasm of the agency's experts, but that the continuous open issue of the Agency's human and financial resources is needed once and for all to be resolved systematically. Keeping in mind the increase in the number and complexity of objects related to the so-called “. ” Let us call them Colloquial European jobs and given the fact that Croatian and foreign experience tells us that it takes at least two years, at least two years, for the basic education of experts to protect the competition, it should consider the need for a rapid strengthening of the human resources of this institution and their systematic, permanent education. Since there is no special college for competition rights in Croatian higher education institutions, we will find it in postgraduate studies but before that, the only way of education is seminars abroad. This, of course, requires certain financial resources that the agency currently has less than ever. The President's change, therefore, was also an important event in 2013 and most of the members of the Competition Protection Council, so 4 out of 5 council members changed, the president changed. The majority of council members are now proven and established experts with a long-standing internship in performing the most responsible jobs in the practical application of competition rights, both in the Competition Protection Agency and in the CNB. However, the delay in the resolution of the old, the appointment of new members of the Council by more than a month of bottoms led to a significant delay in decision-making and the creation of lags which, despite the maximum efforts, were carried over to a certain extent in 2014. The Agency's budget in 2013 amounted to 13.1 million kuna, with a reduction in expenditures of as much as 31.2 million kuna. In these 13.1 million kunas, there are still salaries, funds for employees taken over by the Ministry of Finance. However, it should be noted that any further reduction in the Agency's budget would likely jeopardise the regular exercise of its legal powers since, unlike sectoral regulators, the agencies do not have any own income. It is financed exclusively from the state budget. The budgetary surveillance procedure shall ensure that the financial management, internal audit and supervision of the Ministry of Finance has not identified any irregularities in the management of the Agency. And finally, let's try to figure it out. The aim of the Agency remains as confirmed by this annual report, effective application of market competition rules including determined sanctions against market behaviour, and the creation of equal conditions of market access for all entrepreneurs regardless of their market power. In this respect, the Competition Protection Agency, in that sense, the role of the Competition Protection Agency, is not to protect inefficient and inefficient entrepreneurs from their successful competitors but to protect only competition as a process in which, through the competition, entrepreneurs in the prices of innovation and quality, provide consumers with the option to choose between products they prefer, provide them with lower prices, innovative and more quality products. The notor fact came from the 120-year application of the rules on competition in the world that strengthening the effectiveness of the agency is only possible if they are provided with sufficient resources for staff and work. It is easy to establish that, according to efficiency, the agencies of those countries of the European Union are the most resource-specific, and that these funds are in fact negligible in relation to the benefits for consumers generated by the work of those bodies. It's also on that trail and the appeal that's... Thus, the Vice-President of the European Union in charge of competition recently referred to the governments of the Member States of the Union, warning of the fact that the governments of all Member States right in the time of the financial and economic crisis despite all problems must further strengthen their agencies financially, since only strong and independent national competition agencies can ensure effective competition and competitiveness in the common market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Otherwise, the Commissioner is concerned that anything good that has been achieved so far in the protection of competition could be reversed. He says roll back that, according to Mr Almuni's predictions, it would have unseen consequences for the economy of the Member States and the Union. The Croatian Competition Protection Agency has finally become an integral part of the European Competition Protection Authority, which has put new challenges ahead of it, but also new and very demanding tasks. In this respect, the Agency needs financial resources sufficient to preserve its human resources, operational and functional independence, and the professional reputation it enjoys in Europe. The Agency’s independence must not mean its isolation and incarceration to the public but only independence in the application of the rules, with the refusal of any pressure or instructions, in particular if they come directly or indirectly from any authority or business community. In this respect, the Agency systematically implements a policy of full openness and the public of work. The Agency’s decisions are published in the National Journal, but also on its web pages, and the Agency’s network pages are the main communication channel. In the light of the following, the clearer the transmission of views and clarifications of its decisions to all target groups of agencies on their website also publishes a monthly information bulletin, and regularly communicates with the media, contributing to its visibility and visibility in the public. Finally, despite all the difficulties of the Competition Protection Agency, it is independent, highly professional and effective to speak best and the fact that the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia did not respect any of the 21 lawsuits against the Agency's decisions in 2013. Moreover, in the past 17 years, the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia and now the High Administrative Court have confirmed 98% of the agency's decisions. I also don't know if there's any government bodies that have such a dispute over the case against their decisions. I therefore believe that this House has recognised it and will support the agency in its future work to improve competition and create a culture of competition among Croatian entrepreneurs and consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86384	Thank you. We have two replicas. First of all, the esteemed Branko Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86385	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable President of the Board of the Competition Protection Agency. I would be interested in answering the question that we have asked here several times in the Croatian Parliament, which is what the agency's position on the implementation procedures and pre-fashion settlements is. According to your opinion, whether the request is written off by the Ministry of Finance to the creditors for non-payment of taxes, excise duties and other payments to the state budget. Does the Agency consider this to be an illicit support especially when the Ministry of Finance write down its claims to individual creditors, which are more than a percentage of those written to other creditors. This is the fact that certain companies which are creditors and the previous pre-bank settlement procedure are currently competing on the market for entrepreneurs who have not entered the pre-banking settlement procedure and are then considered at risk in the market sense and within the meaning of the Competition Protection Act. How did we ask the agency a few times in this assembly, including the representatives of the Ministry of Finance in the section relating to the write-off of the Ministry of Finance's request and the IRS to the debtors, would I be interested in what you and the agency's position is, on this particular issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86386	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Mladen Cerovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86387	Unfortunately, I have to answer that the agency is no longer in charge of state support. So, if this is about state support, you have to ask the experts at the Ministry of Finance. It wouldn't be right for me to get involved in their business... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Since the 1st of July, that's right. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86388	There's no talking like this. Answer the replica and don't get in the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86389	I believe that everything that has been done, the agency has given an answer, I think that it is still on our website among those frequent questions in which they say that it would actually be considered as a state write-off more than other believers write-offs and write-offs under conditions that would be more unfavourable than those under which a private entrepreneur would do so to say yes.' And then that difference could actually be said as state support. So, it's short notice, but certainly my colleagues from the Ministry of Finance will explain it perfectly.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86390	Another replica, the esteemed Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86391	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Council, you said that due to the increase in competition, there was a reduction in taxi prices in Zagreb. Yes, but not because of the increase in competition, but because of the emergence of unfair competition. The truth is that the new operator is welcome but not the one who doesn't pay taxes, doesn't pay the contributions, doesn't pay the workers, and then the state writes off those debts. And of course they're forced to cut the price. But it's not the result of competition, it's the result of unfair competition. It will show the future whether these prices are even marketable. However, the question arises in general in the entire Croatian market what are the prices, are they market prices? There are areas where they are. For example, there are rather market prices in furniture distribution, white techniques, electronic devices, but when it comes to food, medicines, cigarettes, telecommunications services, no competition, no market prices. There are administrative prices. So they determine how much they need for profit, how much they need to buy a new company, how much they need to pay off their debts, how much they need for a new loan, and then they decide that. And in the competition, there are no such administrative prices in competitions and conditions. So far, the agency has allowed for failures such abuse of ruling prices, reacting on the same day in the same sector by increasing prices. Because the state introduced 2% of taxes or 6% of taxes. Because we'd keep the profits. The market power of individuals is greater than market share. And that is what hurts the Croatian economy. She's been closing her eyes on that agency for years. Market power is stronger than market share, among many, and sets prices. Why is the price of medicines more expensive in Croatia than in Slovenia 20%?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86392	Time's up. The reply to the replica, the esteemed Mladen Cerovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86393	So, as far as taxi prices are concerned, and if they are marketable, it's actually that some other state control mechanisms need to see if anyone pays taxes, if someone pays contributions, it's not in the Agency's jurisdiction. It wouldn't be good if it did. So we can't look at the agency like I like to say, the younger people might not know it, like a marshal. If you don't know who to contact then the agency will sort it out in some way. So the agency has very strict powers. They're big, but they're very limited and that's how it should be and that's how it is everywhere in the world. First of all, the Agency must not, this is in the 15th report of the European Commission unless I am wrong that the Competition Protection Agency, including the Commission, cannot appear as price regulator. They're not price regulators. The agency only reacts to prices if it is a cartel if it can break and catch it and if it is a abuse of the ruling position where someone imposes too much price or of course goes... prices with a view to pushing out competition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But he must be in a ruling position. The question of parallel price hikes or in the short run, it's not, you'll always find that in motor fuels. They all change prices in a very short time, don't they, especially when they've been semi-regulated with us, it's very difficult to prove that there's been an agreement or arrangement. If there is and if there is any evidence the agency is always there to deliver it to us and we need to be delivered. The stories are not good, and this story is otherwise called in the doctrine of the competition intelligent follow-up. One raises the price, raises the other right away. One more thing was, if I am not mistaken that the market power of an entrepreneur does not always respond, it is not always determined by its market share. Yes, it is. European Commission to
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86394	Time's up. Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club will speak to the esteemed Kresimir Bubalo, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86395	Thank you very much, Vice President, Mr. Cerovac, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Annual Report on the Agency for the Protection of Competition for 2013 and looking at this report, and looking at and listening to this introduction I must admit that the introduction may have been longer than the report itself, but it is much more important for us as parliamentary representatives and the Croatian people to live, as they read this report whether their prices are higher or less, whether they must go through the... the bridge buy cheaper Croatian products in Serbia, whether they go to BiH to buy products and what this Parliament can do to make the situation better for the next few months or a year until the next report for 2014. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In view of this report, we can share it for the period until 01.07.2013 and for the post-EU period. But the report also includes one period of the previous president, Ms. Olga Spevec, and then your period. However, by analysing this report, as well as the competences and tasks of the Agency under this law relating to the protection of competition between entrepreneurs, it is specifically about the responsibilities of establishing... an agreement between entrepreneurs to determine the abuse of the ruling position,... the concentration between entrepreneurs and... opinions on laws and other regulations. I believe you've given your opinions to laws and regulations but it's also evident from this report that you're responding to applications. I'd like the agencies to do their jobs so they're self-initiative, so they're going to split the controls themselves, not wait for us to have a reaction from the field. But what has been evident since 01.10.2010 you have the possibility and the penitent, the participants in these rules of the game. But so far, the law has not been revived, and you have no penitent in the cartel process, which refers to vertical agreements for retail prices and to the perception of what is happening on the market itself. Your agency must help in a better and more efficient competition but I also think that certain agencies do not help the Croatian producer, but especially the consumer to make it easier for the manufacturer to place the goods and the consumer to know that... quality goods. For example, when it comes to eating. But it is well known to us who watch each other every day as our farmers live, how the re-promatile enters their businesses, how the risk is theirs, and then to the same players they sell their goods, and in the end they only have a big minus. We are also familiar with invisible behaviours, but it is evident from this report that there were also agreements on permitted or illicit concentrations on the Croatian market. I think that much bigger problems... are the goods that come into our market and talk to individual agencies and people who have worked or worked in those agencies often tell us that these agencies are doing their job. So, we've got you as a cop, but we don't have those cops looking at the entry products and what's coming to us, and we're gonna have one punch now after the Russian market closes. You made 680 decisions last year which is 70% more than in 2012 and we should congratulate this report and say 70% more work than before, but it is evident when you see what is happening on the Croatian market that we cannot congratulate and say that your 680 decisions, or 390 decisions, have changed the situation on the market. What our producers often see is that neither the Payment Act has come to life, so they don't pay them after 30 days or 60 days, so they offer them the credit after 180 days, just like these individual players. Access to the police is limited and difficult for our manufacturer and the Croatian Parliament is right, but your agency must also fight for this producer, a small player, and it is also necessary for more important support to be given precisely from the level of the Ministry of Economy in order to surround producers, in order to have cooperatives and better perform foreign markets because Croatia was unprepared to join the EU, we opened up, we made the market free, but we did not help our producers to perform more easily on foreign markets. However, since 01.07.2013 what is happening on the Croatian market, but you have also received 145 EU adaptation notifications and we are making all these adjustments, but at the same time our producers are very difficult to perform on foreign markets. 51 people who are employed by your agency, you said they were less because you left one part of the Ministry of Finance, related to support, and especially we from Slavonia and Baranja are interested in regional support and regional development of the Republic of Croatia, but your report also refers to the first seven months and I expected you to talk about it when you spoke in this introduction. Because we think in the HDSSB club that policy is exactly the best way to see it through the budget, through support, support for areas that are particularly underdeveloped, and this is supported by the EU on the basis of the coefficient of development of individual regions. You have had 20 reports of concentration or increase as reported in the report 300%. Well, it turns out there was no application at all before, or people were so scared when they reported someone. But it is evident that there is no... so all those who report, I fear they will not be able to perform on the Croatian market either. Now that is the problem of our regulations, it is the problem of our laws that we bring to the Croatian Parliament or our correspondence of European laws that are not able to be applicable to our environment. What you should be working on as an agency is education and prevention of exactly such events, but also your perceptions of what is happening on the Croatian free market by me even too free because unfortunately the ministries that have to worry about our economy, development and our presentations on foreign markets have failed. What I'm also curious about is whether the players have acted within the deadlines and acted on the measures, have you done analysis based on measures so far over the years, have the players acted exactly on your recommendations? We're not interested in punishing entrepreneurs, but in fact, that the market is functioning. In Croatia we also watch when we look at economic indicators we see that there is a lack of economic growth, and we just have to fight for our own, for our producers, and that is a sign if we have a high concentration of foreign players on our domestic shelf, and our goods are not competitive enough or have not been rounded up enough into this cooperative or stronger company to perform together on the market then we can say that our ministry and Croatian Government have not fought enough for their own, and your police methods to sanction and domestic producers have also not yielded fruit. Therefore, here we should focus on protecting our producers, talking about this strategy and what the Minister of Economy and the Prime Minister are talking about, I expect to talk about it in the Croatian Parliament as well. Governments were changing, a little left, a little right, now left again, but strategies weren't coming. So let's look at our competitiveness, when we see that the same product, whether it's Vegeta, whether it's ours, I'm not going to talk about certain products now because I don't think we should advertise any product in the Croatian Parliament, but when our buyer, our Slavonac and Baranjac go across the bridge of God to buy this same product for a less price than on the Croatian shelf, then we have to ask ourselves the question of our taxes and our most expensive state in the environment, but also the least consumer baskets of our... Just before you spoke in the Croatian Parliament in English, I think they are irrelevant, our producers are important, but our citizens are also important as they live. What was happening is that units of local administrations, and just before there was a question and anticipations, units of local and regional administrations, happens to have no one asking them anything, and the state writes off their claims and individual taxes. This must also be a matter of regulation. ... a short time ago returning that the Ministry of Finance should only control itself. Well, the Ministry of Finance can't control itself. It is precisely there that it takes stronger control to see through those support for whom the tax was forgiven or the fact that those who did not pay the tax were rewarded. And it's known that Al Capone fell when he didn't pay his taxes. But in Croatia, I think there are a lot of Al Capones who haven't paid taxes, and now they're being rewarded in relation to those who have done it fairly for years. I have my own example. While I was mayor of Osijek-Baranja County, for example the state wrote off one company, it's irrelevant that company, land lease income, and here's the 6 years we've only been after the lawsuit and all charged 83 million kuna is the state's mole to pay, half interest is half the principal. So the agency must also control that part of the segment that does not happen that units of local administrations lose their share of income in these pre-fashion proceedings. In Croatia, we have failed and successful, but we must help the successful, but we must help those who are failed today, and they can produce to be more successful, because this chain of re-compromisation, production, up to the shelves and charges does not work in Croatia, and precisely because of these individual players who do not work in the interests of the manufacturer but in another interest. The report also includes these two periods, EU entry and before EU entry. However, it is evident that Croatian citizens live worse than 1.7, that they live harder, that the consumer basket is much smaller and can be said right then that the agency has not fulfilled its obligation, which is to protect our producers as well as to protect our consumers. No matter what this statistic is about us at the HDSSB Club, this report is unacceptable and we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86396	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86397	Thank you very much. You spoke to your colleague Bubalo about the biggest problems in the Croatian economy market, so you touched many. I would just especially point out, a thousand difficulties that prevent economic activity in Croatia but far away, far the biggest problem is distribution. The link between production and consumption does not work. And I want the president of the council to change the agency, and I want it out of his heart because the agency wasn't in service of national interests until his appointment. And I trust this man to turn the agency around, but after the first appearance, I see he cares about it. Because for years it is not normal for someone to make 30% of the profits on capital without the agency reacting to abuse of market position, one of the largest companies in Croatia for years. That's not normal. It's not normal for someone not to pay on purpose, and they have money at lunch, they deposit on the bank, they take interest and don't pay suppliers, the agency doesn't react that it's not abuse of the ruling position. It is. I hope he reacts in the future. It is not normal that there is no modern state, modern, in a world where two banks hold almost 50% stakes and 4 banks almost 70% share. No market conditions, no competition, no market prices. No matter what price the offer and demand in Croatia determines. So supply and demand does not affect prices at all, as neither price affects supply nor demand anymore, the demand is mostly affected by the only available income, unfortunately which is smaller and smaller, it is not available and therefore... And distribution is what we haven't touched yet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86398	The replica matches the esteemed Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86399	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Marić, the problem is distribution, the problem is our producers get to the policy but precisely between this production and that consumption must be an agency that will arbitration and help make it easier for this producer to reach the policy not because of individual monopolys or cartels but to make that producer and survive, and that will certainly affect the better offer but also better consumption. 'Cause if that farmer gets his ass kicked every year, if that peasant ends up with a minus and how he's gonna spend it. And he's a good producer, he can produce, he's competitive, but they rip him apart at the start of the chain and at the end of the chain. The capital is fast, sensitive, and it's never enough. Therefore, it is certain that the sale of the Croatian banking sector also affected the market as we currently have but also what happened after 1.7 last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86400	Second replica, the esteemed Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86401	Dear colleague Bubalo, you spoke of several important problems affecting Croatia and also affecting the Competition Protection Agency. It is true what you have observed, we have opened up to the European Union, or the European Union's slaves, but we have not protected our own production, we have not protected our own industry since yesterday, we started destroying our own industry in the early '90s, and we are systematically doing it until today. The Agency for the Protection of Competition, which I spoke several times in the Parliament, was mostly a agency for the protection of large players on the Croatian market and it was suitable and was in service of several large tycoons in the Republic of Croatia and of these tycoons came personnel and returned to the tycoons from the agency. The agency was protecting the uznu bofl just before you talked about how the problem was getting to the shelves. It is true that domestic producers have large chains of racketeering. And that's also said several times here in the Parliament. They have to lower prices even though they have several times better goods than those bofl goods that are imported so Croatian citizens don't know what they're eating. So the Competition Protection Agency agrees with the pre-concession that Mr Maric said should take a far more decisive role, should be in the service of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia rather than the tycoon.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86402	The replica matches Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86403	So, fellow Vuksic, we have detected more important problems here and we are clearly talking about them. We have opened ourselves up to the European Union, but we have not helped our producers make it easier for them to come to foreign markets. And what is an even bigger problem is the entry of bofl goods and insufficient control from border to individual agencies there Croatia is not doing its job, everything and everything in Croatia is missing. And what's even harder is the arrival of our products in foreign trade chains on their shelf. That's almost impossible. We need to be more determined to help our producers, and that will certainly affect both demand and increase the opportunities of our producers.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86404	Next replica, dear Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86405	I thank my colleague Bubalo, and I fully agree with your debate and it is particularly important that this finding is at the end of your debate where you said that the Competition Protection Agency should be in the function of protection and consumer and that I think is the basic premise of the Agency's work if that is the case in life. But there's something else in life. You've got a village today that takes off corn, wheat, now it's tail time, etc., and the question is, who's gonna sell that turnip to, who's gonna sell the corn to, what's the wheat to? They're gonna sell the cartel. So to those strong players Agrokor, Pipunic and others who sit down and agree on how much they will pay for that wheat. And it's as much as they want to pay, not as much as the market value, not as much as the market price in Budapest, but as much as they agreed on and it's mostly at the expense of the manufacturer and with the high profits of them traders. And that's the market we're talking about that works and the way it works. In winemaking, large mega producers go to this extent, monopolise the market to offer the facilities tens of them, to edit the bars, to offer the waiters money, to bind them to five-year purchase contracts of a kind of wine. And we, as a state in the wine sector, invested huge money, produced tens of thousands of small registered OPGs who expected to live on one fair basis, in a fair wine market. Unfortunately, there are now also dumped prices for the wine of overseas countries. So definitely that sector will disappear and we're talking about protecting competition. What kind of competition are we talking about when the market does not exist in the Republic of Croatia, there is capital in the hands of individuals and it sets out the rules of competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86406	The replica matches the esteemed Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86407	Thank you very much. A colleague of Horvat, namely protecting manufacturers, but also protecting consumers, i.e. The consumption seemed a lot to me because one thing is what's being said here, you've seen it well, and the other is what we see every day in Slavonic and Baranja villages. And even these days, what I'm seeing in the field where people react that one of the players on the market had contracts with that particular village, and it's about the tail, now they're breaking up existing contracts. The peasant did his calculations, he couldn't predict the weather conditions, but he couldn't predict what the French would do on the sugar market in Europe, that he would knock down the price and we have a situation that producers are currently working with negative calculations that have multi-annual contracts. Now that is the problem of our village, it is a problem of the inability to help Croatia realise the stock market, to trade in future contracts. So there's no market in that part, and it just seems like someone's interest here is that there's no market. That's what we have to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86408	The last replica, respected Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86409	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, you have been very broadly discussing, of course, what is your right, but you have touched some of the things that essentially point to the wrong direction and messages to our citizens at this point in terms of whether they will now, because something doesn't work on the market and prices are rising and yet the agency doesn't work properly, the ministries, so they have to go around buying goods in neighbouring countries. So at this point in Croatia, we have a deflation of consumer prices, which means that our citizens can clearly know that prices are less than they were in retail last year. This brings them some other problems, other than the consumer's advantage brings problems to manufacturers, of course, but apparently market competition and the market is functioning. As regards the role of the agency in stimulating or the ministries to help manufacturers, the agency protects competition or does not allow anyone to create these monopolies on the market. But the ministries, or this government, have done their job in a way that we have real growth in industrial production, we have growth in 5 months of exports to more than 12.5%. The wood industry in five months has as much as 28%. Therefore, the agency is doing its job and it is quite clear from this report. The ministry and government are also doing their job, which is clear from official statistics and official figures. So I think you're speaking a little populistly in that sense and you're not talking clearly about the progress that really exists, as well as the quality of the work of the agency that I'm going to talk about later on in the name of the club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86410	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Kresimir Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86411	Thank you very much. Comrade Gjurkovic, I find it difficult to talk about the progress of this government. I wish I could talk about the progress of making the people live better. But you just said that I've been having a wide discussion, so this is exactly what these topics need to be discussed widely, not looking segmented but whole. Because if people go across the border to buy Croatian product, so I mentioned Serbia before, BiH, but it happens in Hungary, Slovenia, neighbouring countries, then we have to wonder why the VAT is so big, why our products are cheaper in neighbouring countries, and you're just talking about the growth of production, you're talking about increasing exports. These facts would make me happy because then it would be a sign that Croatian production and economy and industry are waking up, but such facts can probably be counted with percentages of 0.0001. But I would like to start growing as a Croatian economy and catch up with some of the neighbouring countries of which we have been much stronger in the past years, which is a sign that we are going the wrong way and that the market is not working.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86412	We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected colleague Ivo Jelusic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86413	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Cerovac. Given that there have been clear views in previous discussions that they will not support this report, I say immediately that the SDP club will support this report. I say that right at the beginning so that I wouldn't eventually forget, and also rely on what the predecessors used to say before me. In the past 2013, as regards the work of the Competition Protection Agency, it was a little bit more interesting than the previous ones when everything was going the same way, the same jurisdiction, the same job. In the past year, there has been a number of changes, so some new jobs have been obtained, some jobs have gone out of the agency's jurisdiction. The entry into the European Union has changed a lot, including in the work of the Agency, so it has received certain powers regarding the work around the European Union. We see ourselves from the report that there were about 145... or reports of items which were on the agenda of the agency, and as a consequence of the entry into the European Union. But there's an important job that the agency is no longer doing, and I see that today my colleagues have talked about it before, it's about support. So since last year, the agency no longer deals with support, it doesn't follow them, and it doesn't file reports here in the Support Parliament. I could have noticed from some discussions that some have a certain requirement that the agency should also deal with it or complain about it, but that the agency is finally not involved. Because who supported it? The one who provides support, the one who runs the support policy, the one who needs to be here in front of the MPs in the Parliament and file a report and be responsible for the job. And we've had a bit of anacrona situation so far, strange that the agency has submitted a report on the aids and not given them, nor created a support policy. And then we questioned someone about how support was granted, someone who didn't eat onions or smell onion. So it's good that it went where it was supposed to be, so it's in the hands of the Ministry of Finance. So, in the hands of the government, because the government is also leading the support policy. She determines how much she will be, who she will give to, and then here in front of the Parliament, let her answer. And let's not hide behind any agencies. So, so much for support. It was here, though, when it comes to these aids, so one of them is spreading a little bit of interpretation. I think Mr. Bacic was talking about whether, therefore, you should analyse what has been happening in recent months as a consequence of the Financial Business Act and the pre-fashion settlement. So whether it favors some companies with their debts and debts to the state and whether it has a job for the Competition Agency. We're talking about it, about it is, of course legitimately here in the Parliament to talk about everything and anyone can talk. But I'm surprised the HDZ colleagues are talking about it. Why? First of all, the huge tax debt that exists was in their time. So, they allowed that, mainly, they allowed this debt to happen by its work or by its unhappiness, on purpose or on purpose. So it's a huge tax debt. This government has made the most of its efforts for the first two years in order to bring all taxpayers into the same level that everyone has to pay taxes and that's what we did. And now that we're going to pass a law on pre-fashion settlement where the HDZ votes for it, we bring it in for, together now they're asking if it's good. So together we passed that law. Therefore, I see no reason to question. So that's because we passed the law together, on the one hand. And on the other hand, we mostly inherited that tax debt from your governments and now we're trying to solve it, and now that's the problem. But get back to the agency's work. We see, it turns out, when the agency got numerically far away, that it solved a far greater number of cases than it did in previous years. 2010. 323, 11, 390, 12, 395, now 680. So, a very, very high rate of solved cases. Partly because of what I said because new jobs have come about the European Union. But if you look at the fact that there are now 30% more cases in the narrow area of competition, then what the agency has been doing before, we see that there has been an increase in work. I spoke to both before and at the committee's session that, with this information on the number of cases solved in the future report, there should be information on the state of the pending cases, so as far as 31.12 is concerned, how many are in the process and whether there is a tendency to rise or fall from year to year. Because it doesn't matter if one of them stays a table, and the other year four hundred unsolved items no matter how many are disposed of. We heard today from the President-in-Office of the Council that if I am not mistaken at the end of the year 33 pending cases, or 22 were in the process. So we got this information orally here, but it would be good to have it in the future, so it's also in the report, written form listed as that. What matters when we talk about the authority or new powers of the agency she received last year, which is that from 1.7 last year, which is that she became competent for the banking sector as soon as possible, which was previously in the HNB's jurisdiction. And that's where we expect, if not last year we're talking about, but this year and next year, that the agency should roll up their sleeves well and work on it and expect the effects. Because as usual, we're not satisfied with the situation in the banking sector, and it's about when you look at the bank services that banks offer to citizens that are all the same egg. I'm sure they're not crazy enough to make deals and make written arrangements, make deals, then the agency takes them into consideration. But you know, there's a problem and that's what I see as a serious problem in the Agency's work and in general for the field of competition. And what about when there are deals and they're not written, there's no deal, there's no contract, and de facto you can see from life that there's a deal. So it doesn't just have to be an agreement on paper, but it can sit down with coffee or at lunch, and then work on it. So, formally, there's no agreement, but there's really a deal and a significant distortion of the game. It's that job that's a little harder and we all have to recognize together, and the agencies, and I think that's what's really important. So when we look at what the Agency's task is, then we ensure the smooth functioning of the market. However, to ensure that this market works even better, to prevent distortions of the regular market game. So the agency shows up as some kind of market judge and that's ok. It's her job. However, what we here in the Parliament need to take special care of, and I want it special. So we see the benefits of that being ours. What kind of citizens benefit from us as citizens? So 13 million agencies cost this country. What we get for that $13 million, except for what I said. Because there are two, to say direction or direction of action. One thing is to secure an even match among entrepreneurs because of the entrepreneurs themselves. So that one would not profit at the expense of another and I understand that and that is the interest of entrepreneurs. But it's also our interest that they don't negotiate at the heart of the citizens. And that part of me needs far more to be accounted for in its work and future reports. So, as far as citizens are protected from all entrepreneurs, not as they protect each other by the agency's work. That's what I think is much, much more important, and what we need to pay a lot more attention to. When I talked about this part, so when there were no written agreements and agreements as we had some cases to see. So, I'm sure that even when there were cases that had had certain companies, they two or more, an agreement of some kind and an agreement that could have been interpreted as an illegal violation of the competition that they often did this out of ignorance because they didn't know if they were laughing but because they did it on purpose. Of course that's also a problem and it needs to be contained, but far greater is the problem for those who know they can't do it, but they do it in a different or more perfided way. For example, we remember when we discussed here in the Parliament and when on two, three occasions we passed that law when we taxed telecommunications operators 6% and now after that, all within a few weeks, within a week, two, the month irrelevantly all the higher prices, and not as agreed, there is no agreement. I'm not sure that one of them has raised the price, and the other one is not sure that it would be more competitive but I'm sure they sit around that sort of thing and they agree because the problem is for the functioning of the market when someone has a monopoly and dictates those terms, so you have to buy a favor or goods, so it's a problem. But the bigger problem is when it comes to oligopol, when a couple of players on our market are being negotiated, of course, to the harm of us, to the harm of the citizens. I'm not sure there are any of these oligopols in our market and their agreements at the expense of consumers, at the expense of citizens, and they haven't written that much. That's where you need to see more perfidently how the market works, and all of it, why? To protect our citizens. So I mentioned the problem of telecommunications, the teleoperator, and there might be more of them. But why them? Because their example is very, very interesting. It's a new service that didn't exist in this form 10, 15 years ago and we all lived 10, 15 years ago. And when we look home at our family budgets, we'll see that we pay more monthly for telephone services than we pay for both electricity and water, etc., and without what can't be lived? Without electricity, without water, you simply can't live without it, without this other one you could. But we accept it, accept their prices as they have, they agree with each other. Whether it's real or not, that's what the real question is. How to protect ourselves from new services that have become technologically highly dependent, which, by my assessment, are very expensive, far more expensive than some of the other life needs that we need far more. And of course there are their agreements and price adjustments, that's just common sense and logic talking. So we support this report. I'm sure it's the agency, and we can see that she's done a lot of work both quality and professionally. That part of the job she lost, of course, that she moved to the Ministry of Finance for support, so they lost their jobs but they lost people, too, so people were moved. So these people didn't stay at the agency now that they had nothing to do but move both the job and the people just into the second body of the Ministry of Finance. No matter how many cases are dealt with, they don't need to be swept away. It's never so good that it can't be better, it should work more, especially taking care of what I've been talking about. So, what's the use of all this for citizens, and we're here first and foremost to represent citizens. Entrepreneurs, if they unfairly compete with each other, will be easier to cope with, and citizens are harder to compete with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86414	Thank you. We have two replicas. First of all, the esteemed Branko Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86415	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague Jelusic is interesting about your concept of democracy. In fact, you'll have to get used to that if you don't like some questions, which come from the ranks of opposition MPs, you'll have to get used to it, and I don't know how you haven't yet. Namely, my question was addressed to the President of the Council to tell whether the write-offs and claims made by the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration against the creditors were inadmissible or not. Why? Because the Ministry of Finance says otherwise. The Ministry of Finance says it's not state support and I'm interested in what it really is as an opposition agent? Is that state support or not? And today I got an answer from Mr. President that it's state aid, and at the same time the Ministry of Finance says it's not state support. So that's why I asked that question. And because of this state support or which has already contributed to certain bankruptcy debtors, other entrepreneurs have caused problems on the market because these bankruptcy debtors are unfair competition because they have not paid those obligations which these other entrepreneurs have paid as orderly payments to the state budget. And on the other hand, because of such support were they illegal or permitted or what they already are, I don't know because we haven't yet been answered by government representatives, a number of co-operatives of these bankruptcy debtors ended up in trouble, firing workers because they haven't been paid their claims to those bankruptcy debtors. And that was the point of my question, Mr. Jelusic, and if it bothers you, I said you'll have to get used to such questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86416	Replication response, Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86417	My colleague Bacic, of course, doesn't mind me, as far as I'm concerned, I don't have any problem hearing that kind of thinking, though. But what you also need to accept and hear and that is here is irrelevant so whether it is support or not support because I have spoken in one context, so something that is formal and something that is informal, formal support and informal support. The state here clearly and loudly based on the laws passed here in the Parliament that you voted for, therefore, made the discharge of certain tax debts to individual debtors. But before that, years ago, so you deliberately or unwittingly unwrittenly, unwrittenly allowed an enormous number of entrepreneurs to be in debt to millions. It's hundreds of millions of tax debts you've brought. Is that support I'm asking you? It's not technically because you haven't made a decision not to charge the tax debt, you haven't made a decision, but you've carried it all out well, and you haven't written it anywhere, but you've implemented it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86418	Another replica, the esteemed Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86419	Thank you very much. Comrade Jelusic, you said that the agency is in charge of protecting the competition, of course, in order to keep the market alive, you continued. So does the market in Croatia work uninterrupted? Any blackmail maybe? Is there unfair competition? Is there any abuse of the ruling position? I think we have to answer that question there. And then you wonder if there's too much of it, why I can't support such an agency report that's in charge of not having it. And if not, then explain to me how it is possible that a large company is asking one of the largest companies in Croatia, the product manufacturer, will pay in advance, the agency will report on it, and the company will not deliver the goods, will not accept payment in advance because it is being blackmailed by another customer if you give it to him, I will cancel, you must not give him the goods. This is how the market works in Croatia. I know personally that two years ago, the agency was notified of the case, did nothing. The level of economic activity throughout Croatia depends on the protection of competition. We have agreed that we must pray to God that the private monopoly is not too cruel. We must pray to God that the oligopolies do not conclude an overly cruel agreement. I, we believe, actually, we have come down to believe in the selflessness of monopolism, to believe in the conscience of oligopolism, to believe in the character of cartelism, and I believe in the agency that will prevent it, and I don't believe in the one that worked until last year, but I'm leaving space, I'm going to trust this one if it proves to be different. The oligopolies, monopolies and cartels are... Croatian economies and the agency must not close their eyes to such a state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86420	It matches the line, Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86421	We all have problems with this microphone ignition. Comrade Maric, I agree with you in most of what you said. Of course, your question was rhetorical, whether there are unfair competitions in Croatia, especially in..., so of course there is, it is not said that there is no. Besides, she's not there, she shouldn't have the agency because she wouldn't have anything to do with it, so you know that we all follow the law, we shouldn't have courts and lawyers, that we're not wrong, we shouldn't have priests and then confess us. So that's why it's the agency because there's a problem, she's here to solve it. Of course, that's exactly why the agency needs it, that's the point of it... but of course the agency has to act. If you said this, you said two years ago that one particular case was not responded, it must not happen. It is up to the agency to find its own problems with unfair competition, market distortions, market irregularities, and not just to wait for applications. Of course the application has and mostly works on applications, but it needs to be found itself, but also if one of us, any of us, any of our citizens, is something... of course she has to react. That's what we agree on.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86422	We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative, Ivan Shuker, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86423	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. President of the Council, colleagues and colleagues. Usually these reports are in the Croatian Parliament time to ask two questions. Did the agency enforce the laws we voted here? And the second thing, does a certain anomaly that the agency if it implemented the laws find us as a legislative body, and orders the government as an executive body to amend the laws. Also, I can't accept that until yesterday the singing agency and Mrs. Spevec were suddenly doing nothing. Why? We can look at these reports in the Croatian Parliament and see what you've been saying. So, the agency did what it did, whether it worked best, then and on it was warned here from this pay phone and what might be the most controversial thing with the agency in this period until 01/07 because we can practically split this report into two parts, is the end of an era, and the second is how much the agency is ready for what is waiting for it. This report should generally offer two answers. And what may have been the biggest opposition in recent years in the report of the Competition Protection Agency was support and, above all, support in one segment that cost Croatian taxpayers 25 billion kuna from 2002 to 2013, which is shipbuilding. And these support may have been the biggest rock of interference and, in principle, the agency had to give an opinion after 2006. That's what I'm saying here for the reason that I'm going to look back in part, what my colleague Bačić said in the replica, it's a pre-war deal, but when we talk about the Competition Protection Agency, it's just one of the regulatory agencies that should ensure that no one is peeling the skin of Croatian citizens. That no one makes illegal, immoral, we can call them whatever we want, make arrangements to charge for something more expensive or pay for something cheaper. Because the market as great as it is, but the market is very dangerous if it develops in non-legislative countries. The market in countries that have traditions is great, but why? Because they've developed instruments of protection. Did we as Government, as Parliament, develop these instruments of protection? Are we ready to welcome the disappearance of a traditional, to say neighborhood trade, the extinction of traditional markets, and the sudden burst of trade chains? Are we ready for this? Because I remember from the time I was mayor in 2001, 2002, the agricultural producers from my town were godmothers, praying to get a few benches on the Zagreb markets. Why? Because the Zagreb market is closest to them and... for sale. After 2 or 3 years of that need, it was not simply because they began to place their goods in trade chains. Whether this relationship is the most honest, fairest, whether the trade chains have agreed to pay these producers and to bring them together into a very difficult situation, because if you don't pay someone 6 months or a year then you've brought him into a very difficult situation, that's a question that the agency has to answer without reporting, without anything. Because if it starts public speaking that someone doesn't pay that much and so many months the agency has to collect data, it has to react, and that's the meaning of the regulatory agency, without pulsism, without waving big metaphors like this, like that. Because in the end, if the agency reacts and if the report mentions it, we and the government are signaled that certain laws must be amended. At this point, we are still the country that perhaps the most paid by Croatian citizens has not liberalised the market, we are just entering the liberalisation of the market. Ask God what's going to happen to us tomorrow with the electricity store, we've got a lot to offer. Croatian citizens are totally uninformed, if someone really offers cheaper or more expensive electricity, they will also liberalise the gas market and the question is what will happen to some municipal services because these water supply areas are now being rounded up and everything else. So this is a series of questions that this agency must react to in the future in order to protect Croatian citizens from being torn apart. And we in the Croatian Parliament must react that when the laws are made, then with these laws we help these independent regulators do so. And when we think and think in that way, then we can say that we are a country open to entrepreneurs, and we are a Parliament that protects both of them, and those who produce and those who buy that product. By then, a country that has 300 thousand unemployed, which has been in recession for 6 years, must not send any negative messages to those who would produce and create jobs. We're unfortunately in a situation like this. We're not in a situation like some other countries that have capital and have opportunities, but that's why we're being offered these independent regulators. Yesterday we had a chance to discuss the report of an independent agency that was founded to regulate something. And what it does, it practically doesn't exist. Why? Because those who should regulate don't practically do anything because they're in total collapse. So agencies as agencies are not something that is bad if they do their job, they should be protecting Croatian citizens, protecting the Croatian economy because if they get a little better, and none of the colleagues have mentioned this agency has also regulated and monitored certain agreements that Croatian companies have concluded with other EU members. So it's a whole new area, and it can be born with a monopoly, and it can happen with any kind of cartelism. Because look at your colleagues and colleagues, I remember the time of the negotiations, so when you start chasing in Croatia now I won't advertise to one industry because international corporations have decided to take revenge on the Croatian firm, because it was in some sort of subordinate position in the past time, so that's what the agency needs to prevent. But ultimately, Croatian citizens get a quality service and a quality service is cheaper to be at the lowest price. And then if the agency's been doing that, then we can say that the agency has satisfied what it was founded for and for what it's meant to be. And it's not good, I think in one sentence it's just mentioned, where you said that the agency isn't technologically equipped to do some things, it's something that can't happen because that part of technology is related to the area where billions are turned, where Croatian citizens pay billions of annual services, and so it can't happen that the agency says we're not technologically equipped, the government has to react, and the agency has to get for that money. Why? Because if she doesn't, she hasn't protected the billions that Croatian citizens are paying for these services. It's the purpose of the agency, it's the purpose of the end of us sitting here in this High House, to think and think in such a way. Because if we are not going to think and think in such a way as to say that someone likes us we will not in principle protect those who should be protected, which are Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy because sometimes the Croatian economy is threatened. And when we talk about someone being unequal at some point, the stock market is a great thing to regulate the price. Unfortunately, however, in recent years all attempts to establish some stock exchanges and fish and agricultural products have not passed in Croatia. Why? Was it in anyone's interest not to go through and that the stock market in a certain way didn't regulate prices? I think that was it. Is that where the agency was supposed to react? I think so. Because when we talk about the price of wheat and there's a stock market in Hungary, it's closest to us, and it's often mentioned, the price of wheat on that stock market is what it is, and it's paid that much. And here someone deals in one way or another what the price is going to be. The other thing about the stock market guarantees you something that you'll get some kind of price that's on the market. And when we talk about agricultural producers, let us not forget that even today in the EU, and during all those practically 12 years that Croatia has conducted negotiations with the EU, agricultural support has been excluded from this monitoring agency for the protection of competition for the reason that every country is in the interest that its agriculture is developing and food is the greatest wealth of the one who is smart enough to know how to produce it and to place it on the market. Food has always been the subject of large accounts between major world forces, and now the question is whether Croatia has used all these years of strong support, which was somewhere over 5.5 billion in agriculture to develop this agricultural production. And have some succeeded and some succeeded? Why? Because some had available capital and others had no available capital. And it may be good that after 11 years, the system of credit unions and institutions is getting out of the control of the CNB and putting under the control of the Competition Protection Agency. Because let's not say that there is no agreement in this sector under the cover of new products of the financial institution and of the telecommunications institution. So over the past 10, 15 years, and when we add IT technology to that over the past 10 years, the most profitable economic branches under the cover of new products are always selling something similar, but you basically always pay some product something more, and then because of the competition, it's supposed to lower, so they sell you a new product. Is that where the agency was supposed to react and that's the question? So a series of questions I sincerely hope to receive in response to the 2014 report. Because it will be a new report, Croatia is a full year of members of the European Union, we have just had experience and help from Brussels than those who work more and know more, and now we will see what will be 2014. That's why I'm saying this report should be looked at in two segments, one is 1.7.2013, the other is from 1.7 to the end of the year. Have we taken care of the concentration of individual businesses in recent years? Probably not. What would be the situation in certain economic branches if there was total control and that's the same question. However, what may be one of the biggest issues that is currently plagued by the few producers, regardless of whether they are from the real sector or from agriculture in Croatia, which is the abuse of the ruling position of entrepreneurs. Did someone just because they have a dominant market abuse this and products that unfortunately this real Croatian sector and the agricultural producer can't place anywhere but only on the Croatian market, did they abuse it with the price?' That's the question where the agency might have to point things out. Now, look, colleagues and colleagues, we're all taking it easy to get past the fact that the only constant macroeconomic indicator that's positive in Croatia in the last six months is exports. But not because of the sudden increase in production in Croatia, but for the simple reason that the barrier of many small exporters selling their products on the European market without any problem, they could not have come to the market before. And that's the result of a good macroeconomic indicator. We unfortunately treat it for our daily political needs as we treat it. So perhaps these small producers were also cut off because someone abused the ruling position on the Croatian market. So a series of questions, I hope in next year's report we get at least one part of the answer. And now for the end of the pre-war deal. I also asked the Croatian citizens for a preliminary settlement and also for the write-off of debts to ask if the Ministry of Finance requested the opinion of the Agency for Protection against Competition for the simple reason that all European Union directives clearly state that any write-off, tax reduction is treated with support. So that's what it is, and as far as tax debt as I was saying about deficits, there are documents that were in this House of Commons. Among other things, there is one document called the February 2002 Law on outstanding claims, and it is said that the government wants to charge 24 billion taxes rather than taxes. So if you take the last 9 years, take the average interest rate of 15%, and you'll see what amount you get. And also if you look at the budgets from 2004 to 2009, you will see that the growth of revenues in state budgets is far greater than the annual gross, growth of gross domestic product and inflation, and this is a clear indication that the tax charge to the crisis has been quite high. But usually the one who makes the wrong analysis is then wrong and thinks about what to do and then the results are what they are that Croatia today has a historically low deficit. And the HDZ Club will be hoping that AZTN will do what we said to support this report because it is finding facts. We can only express our satisfaction with work or indignation and the report is what it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86424	We move on to the replicas that are 5. The first will be carried out by Ivan Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86425	Hello, thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Shuker, unfortunately, the Competition Protection Agency, and even if we wanted to, the European Commissioner for Competition cannot protect us from the inability of the current government, which has been constantly here for the past three years by increasing taxes, destroys the purchasing power of the Croatian population. I think we'll agree. I don't think there's a world tax on food on most of the food products is 25%. So the current government didn't realize that we had entered the European Union, that there was competition between administrations, competition... to attract foreign investors, to preserve domestic investors that they stay in Croatia not to go out, so the administration simply didn't realize so we have high interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, instead of entering the European Union reforms through the fact that tax discharge happens exactly the opposite. For us, because our bond, i.e. our garbage rating, is practically among the biggest interest rates in the European Union. So all that should have been the positive consequences of Croatia's entry into the European Union, unfortunately, except for the fact that you mentioned exports all changed exactly the opposite and therefore Croatia is at the very bottom of all European economies today.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86426	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86427	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Milosevic, you see there's a difference because everything you mentioned regulates politics rather than an independent regulatory agency. Because it's likely that some things are regulated by an independent regulatory agency then she wouldn't have thought of doing these illogical escapades as far as taxes are concerned. Because your tax is like the error in basketball steps, if you take the first step wrong or in the race on the groin, this could be called more like a 110-metre race, if you've taken the wrong step to tear down the groin, and if you've made the wrong step in tax policy then later you're just wrinkling about how to get out of it and like you've fallen into live mud. And the tax policy of this government is exactly a practical attempt to get out of the living mud. With constant attempts to fill the state budget go with new tax burdens for those who no longer have to pay. So perhaps Croatia would introduce as something of an export product as they boasted with someone to have an independent regulatory agency that would hitchhike non-resonal introduction of new taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86428	New replica, the esteemed Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86429	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker, well, my replica was also motivated by the fact that I knew that you had referred the question to the Ministry of Finance in the section relating to the write-off of the debt of the creditors to the state budget whose answer was exactly contrary to the statement given today by the president of the agency. However, I also wanted to refer to the fact that Mr Jelusic, on behalf of the SDP club earlier, said that he was entitled to support an unpaid tax debt during the years prior to the arrival of the Kukurik coalition to power. It is for me to argue that the outstanding tax debt which is burdened or better charged with tight interest is recorded, at the very least irresponsibly. Because every tax debt that is properly recorded and properly charged with a tight interest by the Tax Administration, until the conditions for it to be charged are obtained, completely normal and otherwise cannot be done. But the question is, on the other hand, whether it is a normal approach in which the selective method of certain taxpayers and taxpayers are written off through a bankruptcy procedure by several million, not to say hundreds of millions of heavy debts, is that acceptable from the aspect of protection of competition when other taxpayers are not in such a position. And that's what I'm saying from the fact that even today on the Croatian wine market, for example, individual bankruptcy debtors who have written off huge liabilities to the state from the aspect and tax debt, today unfair competition for those wine producers who regularly comply with all their obligations to their co-operatives, on the other hand and to the state. And that was why I replicated what I'm saying caused a surprise from the representatives of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86430	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86431	Thank you very much. So if the tax write-off is treated as some kind of restructuring program... one company should then... offer other companies to go into some kind of restructuring project and to be given the same funds as a percentage. Because if you need to pay the kuna less than you should pay your competitor, you are immediately in a more favourable position. This is why the European Commission sees this as a clear support. Therefore, if we wanted to do so then it could be treated in such a way, however, the question is what kind of restructuring programme will be and is that-is that it? Also, any write-off to Croatian citizens who have no basis for a purely social map to write off people who unfortunately have found themselves on the sidelines of society for one reason or another, cannot settle their obligations, is not fair. That's why the OIB was introduced, precisely because of the link between everything you've had and what's successful and unsuccessful. Many have turned something into a failure, and in another company they made a profit. This should connect and simply place everything on a pile and try to collect from it what needs to be charged. And as for pre-banking deals and support, yes, we supported something that was changed in 45 articles after 7 days, and in these 45 articles, small entrepreneurs were brought into an unequal position, which was not at the time when we adopted. And you simply can't have anyone agreeing with him to send a memo, you're admitted to 50 or 60% of the claims, you'll be able to charge it in the next 5 years without interest or anything else. So it's this unequal position because when you didn't charge that man he might not have been able to pay someone else, he was simply uncompetitive on the market and went bankrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86432	New replica, respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86433	Comrade Shucker, I'm going to agree with you. I mean, what maybe some irrelevant part of you doesn't agree with, it doesn't matter. I think it's important here because there are important things, that we look for those components, those points that bring us together to make things better. You think that the agency in that desire that problems arise with our producers, for example, that we are not stuttering here and that we are completely naked, the producers who buy the goods from the centres, the trade chains, and they are not paid within a deadline that, that wasn't all the explicits said so, but I want to make it quite clear and practically from the other debates there is a feeling that many of them are afraid, and that is true, they are afraid to call the inspection because their goods will no longer be bought. The goods are cheap all over the world. Now what's the problem and what we could do? And now you're calling for the agency to do so, but the agency can raise its voice, but it has no instrument to do so. As you know, we've passed a law that regulates financial operations, regulates payment deadlines and regulates non-payment sequences within the deadline, which is primarily the job of the Ministry of Finance Inspector. Since this is a notorious thing, therefore this is not to be proved as in mathematics axioma, therefore there should not be an inspection of the application, it is a common known thing such as dates and seasons, therefore it should if it does not want certain services in the ministry and you director and agency to assist. Because it's not only my monopoly on my affairs, it's the dialogue between agencies, between the resolution ministry and beyond, that this problem is solved, and it's not a small problem, so ex offo, by official duty, the inspectors of the finance ministry, and see if the goods are paid off to small producers. And we'll ask you and the authorities here if that's what happened. Well, when we agree on that, no one can protect you. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86434	The replica matches Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86435	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Anticevic, you've only confirmed what I said that these reports and I'm glad we agree here, that these reports simply need to open our eyes to the government and to us maybe we need to change some laws. It's just that you're talking about the wrong inspection here, the jurisdiction of the former market inspection, these national inspectorate preambles, more like, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. But why did I mention here the Competition Protection Agency? Because the abuse of a ruling position is obvious. Because if you have a ruling position on the market, you basically dictate rules without market principles. And you will not bring him who sells his goods to you in an unequal position. So there's a legal provision here, which is it. Now we're just asking a question, and we don't know that here in the Parliament. We can tell on the basis of how we get the information. But probably other information has an agency. So they're the ones who suggest what to do. Because if there is, watch for years in Croatia medicines were paid after a year and a half, two days. So do you think the pharmacists didn't charge the price of that capital? And who paid for it and who's paying for it today? We pay through that minus we have every year in health care costs. That's a fact. Why run from it? But the same story today is with goods that Croatian producers deliver to someone. So let it be legally said that it is six months, so let someone also give the manufacturer protection funds at some minimum price and not charge him interest. It's your principle of cooperative business. Let's say in Germany, where the company delivers protection funds to the producers and everything else. He later gives him the product, and that's where he only beats the price of what he's got. Therefore, those who have a longer tradition know how to do it. Sometimes things need to be overwritten, and they're just adjusted to their own, and it'll work. But not just the left side, not the right side.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86436	Replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86437	Dear fellow Shuker, your debate was inspiring for replication. Here I am, colleague Antičević-Marinović gave me the creamworth to start with one of her sentences. She said the notorious thing about how there are seasons, so the notorious thing is some things in the economy. However, she is in error too, and I will link that to your market issues, because air-conditioned said there is no longer a four-year period. So there isn't even a market economy anymore that we're talking about today in the Parliament. It's been a while. Even the Friedmans admitted that there are no markets that regulate themselves. You said the stock market was a great thing to regulate the price. Without State interference, there is no good healthy economy. This crisis that occurred in 2008 has shown this and it all leads to this. I mean, it's a little bit in this debate, even the most important question of other things. You've rightly established one of the greatest treasures is food. Food is the greatest treasure, but we pushed that fortune away. We simply destroyed food production or destroyed it from day to day and allowed it on behalf of the free market, in the name of the world's greatest fraud, to import goods without producing our own. And that's the biggest hoax that's working in these Assembly benches and that's rolling in the benches of other parliaments, that we haven't protected our own. Every country's rights, every sovereign state protects its production whether it is in the European Union or not. If you look at the models of other countries, you will see that there is no state that will not protect its production in different ways.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86438	The replica matches Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86439	Thank you very much. My colleague Vuksic, I am neither a member of neoliberalism nor a real socialism or an agreed economy. I'm for what democracies are for some kind of social fair market economy. It's kind of a broader definition of a Christian. And I've tried to lead my debate in that direction, too, and also from a long-standing experience in the executive and local and national level, I think I have some knowledge, and in an indirect way I've sent a message to the President of the Council. And if it reads a little bit, we'll see. Because when I mention how much money we gave for agriculture, look for a country like Croatia to give with capital support and support in agriculture almost 5 billion kuna a year is not a small amount. Now you're asking the result? That's the key question. And whoever first found the right answer for it, but the current minister didn't find the answer for it, and we entered a large conglomerate where agricultural producers are far stronger. If I were to tell you now that we have been fighting for ten years to plant or to raise certain throats to a certain level, because once we enter the EU, there is no more planting and no support for planting or buying that throat or building that farm. And if you don't get state support, you're not competitive. You are sentenced immediately to ruin, starting with olives over the vine. Look, we actually had one of the biggest export increases a year and a half ago. You know what? He's exporting beef. You know why? The 30,000 cows of the muse have been slaughtered. Is there anyone else that the government should have reacted to about milk, the price of milk? Did someone trick that bacteria into Croatian producers that's the question. Why? Because rebuilding the basic herd is a long-term process and the government needs to intervene. And for political reasons, we just stare at it. And that's why just because we're at one point, we have to be socially sensitive, and act markety. Because unfortunately, it's the only thing keeping us in the game. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86440	Igor Coleman's last line.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86441	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. A fellow Shuker, you spoke at one point about financial institutions and you reminded me the other day of a call, I heard from a citizen who has a business relationship, of course, like most of us with multiple banks. And now he has a bank (a) in which he has an account, there are how they call it more products threatened with the abolition of a product he has been using for many years because in another bank he does not meet his obligations regularly. And now she's asking me if I'm dealing with different market entities or if I'm actually dealing with one single institution that in these offices and the names of these banks actually seems to be different, which is actually just the arms of an octopus where the head is one. So, is this a competition game, is it a free market or is it a monopoly or at best an oligopol? So Bank A threatens him with something because Bank B didn't meet something. And what's the answer, what's the answer to that man?
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86442	Answer, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86443	Now, look, colleague Coleman, if you're looking at it on one side, you can look at it like this, but look clean with business and what needs to be regulated by this agency. It's probably a product of some kind because it's been a very high-level business. Since he probably came on the list not to carry out his duties, someone probably doesn't treat him like that anymore, and then he uses the opportunity to do it to him. These are the bad side of the market economy where someone takes the right to break your contract, but at the same time what would happen if you tried to break the contract? Try to break up the time-limited savings, you won't get a drop of the interest you agreed on, and at the same time the bank can do what you did. That's why I'm saying here it's not the Agency for the Protection of Competition that reacts to the CNB. So it's good that these institutions have moved into the agency, and the CNB has to react to these things, the CNB's inspection when it comes in has to react to these things. Unfortunately, however, these are the small letter contracts written on the bottom that no one reads.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86444	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, respected Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86445	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will support the 2013 Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency. On behalf of the HNS Club, I would like to point out in the beginning two facts which determine the work and so far, but also what is, of course, crucial and since I agree with those discussions which show that, based on these analyses of such regulatory agencies as well as all other regulatory agencies on the state of the market regardless of which segment it is, whether it is energy, whether it is a broad consumption of telecommunications, etc., that these reports should be more detailed because these regulatory agencies, with their work and protection of competition, protection of both producers and consumer protection, provide indications, instructions, analyses sometimes and proposals. But based on their analysis, we can get corrections to the necessary laws, amendments to the laws, new laws to make it better and more quality for our producers, which provides consumers with a fairer market, lower prices, and, on the other hand, a better price for those who produce it. This is the situation where, on the one hand, you have manufacturers who want to get as much price as possible, their added value to be better, that they can have higher incomes, not only profit, that they can invest on their own and on the other hand that it is not a situation to use the market because of the monopoly, because of association to harm consumers. And this is the situation where the regulatory agency needs to know how the market works, how to regulate, guide and sanction. So, for the agency to work, and here it is clear and noted the agency has also been working on an analysis of the sectoral market. That's what she's been doing in the past few years. This analysis of the sectoral market, I think some 70 sectoral markets have been done here, is something that needs to be spread safely in the future. Because this is the basis on which you can speak and work easier and process all those applications that come into the agency and also what is the new authority of the agency that you can independently do certain depth analyses, unannounced searches. So, based on these sectoral analyses, better, better quality analysis, we will first know whether our market is free but regulated because there is no more free market or free market can function or function. Discussions are also about the protection of manufacturers both in the EU and the protection of national interests, the protection in this respect and the key development of the country if you protect your producers but still comply with EU rules. On the other hand, consumer protection that they have quality prices and access to wider products. Therefore, this analysis that has been done so far and which must be done in the future must certainly be even more detailed, even more quality, not only in the polls but also in those deeper analyses that can be done economically, and also in the analysis of the effectiveness of the market itself, both for consumers and for producers. We have, of course, the key thing that the agency must do, which is to establish prohibited agreements between entrepreneurs and to determine the abuse of the ruling positions of entrepreneurs and to assess the concentration allowed between entrepreneurs, but primarily not only on the basis of applications that come into the agency but on the basis of a good sectoral analysis, because then you will be able to enter the market yourself, give guidance, give suggestions, and then not to say that certain changes to the laws that should be done in certain sectors to protect producers and protect consumers. Of course, this topic and your business is extremely complex, as well as how well regulated it is by our laws and EU legislation, and also by the dynamics that are happening on the market, not only because we have entered the EU, but because of the dynamics in which producers themselves are trying to find a better quality space in order to have higher income which is natural and logical, is the same dynamic that you have to monitor, for example, certain mergers because today when producers go to the market and compete with each other of course that lower prices, the lower prices are in Croatia, let's say the goods of broad consumption. However, on the other hand, that market sometimes leads to this, and we have heard here that some producers fail because they cannot monitor what technology and what has higher costs, etc. And they're falling apart. And normally, if they had to join together, sometimes through..., sometimes larger acquisitions buy less, get part of the market, get new technologies and it's normal and natural in one competition when manufacturers decided to take over each other's auctions, not just destroy each other with competition and lower prices. It is constantly said that price increases, however, lead to competition with each other in a way that lower prices can last two years. And it's the same protection of competition, not only of consumers, but of manufacturers to prevent someone from lowering lower prices from destroying that market. However, generally all the analyses say that by lowering prices independently of the manufacturer's strength, they have both damages and those who allegedly can withstand it, there are also acquisitions and acquisitions of certain competitions, but then we come to the problem of creating a particular monopoly on the market, that these prices can then be raised, etc. Therefore, this dynamic and work of the competition agency is not simple at all, and this job that you did in 2013, not only before entering the EU, but after entering the EU with new specific tasks and this job that you do this year can be quite different, not only in terms of applications, certain suggestions, analysis, etc., but it can be different in terms of market conditions, and therefore this sectoral analysis and market surveillance makes it easier for you to do the very literally this job, which is why you are, not dependent on applications, but on an independent basis, market analysis you can regulate, do the job that matters because if it comes down to applications, you are essentially doing all these applications as well, however much on second-degree, or on lawsuits, your decisions are confirmed, meaning that they are correct, that you do quality applications. But what is crucial is that the agency itself controls the free market, does not give space to monopolies, mergers, use of market space, certain or traders and manufacturers towards consumers, or manufacturers, and that analysis is essentially crucial tomorrow for your work, key to making decisions and agree with colleagues, to adopt new laws that would protect domestic production, on the one hand, protect consumers and protect that market. The free market as a free market is good because it defines the possibility for every citizen, a private entrepreneur to perform on that market, to find his chance if he has a particular product, to have an additional value. However, no market today, a regulated market and a free market is a market in which it can be done as it pleases, so there is an agency and each market must be regulated because the freedom to go to the market means compliance with certain rules. Rules of respect and competition and consumer compliance rules. And the story of the neoliberal market is... in the EU and Croatia too because it is all a regulated market that provides frameworks for everyone to perform, to earn, but also not to endanger their competition and not to endanger consumers. Therefore, the debate on the segment of the Agency's capacity is the same thing that is extremely important, and I also agree that the Agency's capacity, to do better its job, better in that sense, more widely and through all analyses, and that the faster responds to all applications is something that is absolutely necessary, it is on the other hand saving, which saves citizens, saves and budgets, means investing in the Agency is not a cost, but is an investment that comes back through higher incomes, tomorrow tax revenues, and a reduction in costs to citizens. The agency's work so far was also in the Croatian Parliament, when we were not in the EU, supported, there are always objections, there are always suggestions for better work and it is quite normal because the dynamics of both your work and our market and the development of state and democracy, in particular the economy is such that it must always go forward, not only technologically but also in terms of quality and the work of employees and a greater number of employees, and on this issue you have the support of the HNS club to strengthen that segment that is important to protect consumers, but always there was a better and more quality producer. We expect even better analysis, I say sectoral, you've detected where there are the biggest problems in the market. Better analysis needs to be done so that you can do this job on your own and, of course, enough capacity for this job to be done as soon as possible and as high-quality as possible in the interest of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86446	Gold shower, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86447	Thank you, Vice President. I agree with you when you said that the market should be regulated, clearly that the agency has a very important role for the regulated market but in Croatia something else is happening and you talked about it when it comes to protecting those small producers, but we know that some big ones still hold the monopoly in Croatia and blackmail these small producers in a way or you will accept at the price below that which is profitable for their business and in a way that they blackmail them in a way through payment and settlement of obligations for their delivered goods. And it is clear that such small producers can easily survive on the Croatian market. We need to talk about this completely publicly and openly. These small producers are even afraid to report certain irregularities inside because they know then that their goods will have no more to deliver to anyone else and that they can then put the key in the lock. So clearly in that part where you say that it is not a neoliberal market, I still think that we are still far away because it is known that certain large producers somehow blackmail those small ones and there are a lot of irregularities and exactly the Agency for Market Competition there should not only in a way that individuals register but also act more seriously in that part alone in the protection of these small ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86448	Srdjan Gjurkovic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86449	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Dear colleague, I wish you and I hadn't spoken in code, there some, well known, not known, etc. both you and I have a responsibility to Croatian citizens and you and I have an obligation as well as any Croatian citizen and that entrepreneur who is afraid to report something, but you and I are bound to report something even more if we know there is a certain irregularity and to address the Competition Protection Agency or, of course, other institutions, to point to certain anomalies and that they are acting and that we are asking them to investigate certain cases, certain situations in which you speak in code. It's our responsibility. And I urge you to address the Competition Protection Agency and without codes clearly point to those who are using a position that is not in accordance with the law. They're endangering small producers, blackmailing them, etc. And we're asking the agency not to report on the next year when she's working but to report us as parliamentary representatives or as a representative question about facts and actions. Because what is crucial and important to this government coalition, that we do transparently and publicly, that everything is available and that we ask everything to be public and available. Therefore, I call on you to stop with the codes and speak specifically and clearly especially you and I as parliamentary representatives, and I stick to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86450	We are moving on to an individual debate, colleague Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86451	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Cerovac. The colleagues have already discussed the work of the agency itself, and especially counterpart Srdjan Gjurkovic, on behalf of the Croatian Liberal Democrats. I would say more about the very concept of the market in which I experience competition and the role of the state. Market and competition, business and fight for their part of the market area fell out a long time ago, as my colleague Gjurkovic told me from the framework of wild capitalism and far removed from non-institutional freefields. The growing number of various human activities has resulted in a higher number of entrepreneurs seeking their share of the market cookie. The almost biggest problem of competition in Croatia, in my personal opinion, is the huge representation of the state as a market entity. We are slightly older witnesses to the public state economy of the former Yugoslavia, and together we have witnessed the Croatian public economy in the past 20 years. Many problems in the Croatian economy, but as I said in my deep conviction, one of the biggest problems is that much too much concentration of economic potential is held in their hands by the state. The state economy, apart from the fact that the non-drying polygon for theft and corruption is particularly fruitful in making wrong political decisions in the economy, almost regularly resulting in disaster. The economy and the economy require exclusively income decisions. As soon as political involvement takes place, the steep-headed spiral of non-profits and lasting once-in-a-lifetime unsightly losses and then pays citizens and citizens, often in unlimited amounts of money. Another anomaly of the state economy is incompetence in a negative sense. Who can compete with the state in the public open market and who can win the same country in the competition. And in some activities you can't enter because the state practically holds a monopoly. ... in my opinion, the devastating anomaly of the state economy is that corruption is naturally linked to the state economy, and with it go hand in hand and damage resulting from corruption, making wrong decisions. It's terribly unforgivable and punishable that someone's got some kind of cash or something or something and a favor to be corrupt. But there is much greater long-term damage to the consequences of this corruption-encouraged decision. That's where the damage has been for years, and we've been witnesses for decades. In order for competition to exist at all, the country simply needs to be removed from the market. But the role of the state is desiccated. The state is necessary in regulating fair market relations and it is necessary to control a fair match. There the role of the state is irreplaceable and it is obliged to find all possible instruments to meet and its most important roles in the economy, to enable all business entities to have an equal match and to control that same match. I have already noted that there is an increasing number of human activities resulting in an increasing number of entrepreneurs seeking their share of the market cake. Thus, the market is becoming more complex and market regulation is becoming more complicated. Regulatory mechanisms are different, techniques are increasingly specialised in the work, high professional scientific underage personnel are needed. This is where universities, specialized institutions, scientific institutes and mentioned agencies are used today. Clearly, all regulatory controls should be placed very carefully and professionally thought out in order not to kill the entrepreneurial spirit, creation, innovation, equal, exciting competition. I would mention two very important things to me, I say the most important instruments of control and the establishment of an equal, equal market, equal competition. The first and probably most important is the fast-acting, fair, professional, independent judiciary. All economic disputes that last no longer than a year, even less lead to the destruction of some companies and ultimately to the economy. To be more classical, for example, if the manufacturer, a small shoelace producer who employs five workers although the client does not pay him to deliver 3 million ties in a year he has made a clear investment in... All this rest, he pays the workers taxes, he contributes, he raises all his resources, and he has raised a smaller economic loan, and then for more than a year he can't push the debt through the court, the epilogue is clear. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A small businessman goes down, people go to the stock market, their families become social cases. A swift, effective, fair, independent judiciary is necessary to resolve economic disputes. The second instrument I'd like to mention is our very own agency. I think it is extremely important whose report for 2013 we are discussing. The Agency for the Protection of State Competition in Croatia clearly exists over the average tough entrepreneurs who are despite all the difficulties, the problems of liquidity, false competition, the motherhood of the state, the planting of local self-government, the problem... etc., they still managed to survive with their toughness and developed their economic activity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Some individuals have even developed into respectable entrepreneurs and position their businesses in regional and European proportions as those they think of, which means something. These entrepreneurs, i.e. companies, are the ones most interested in an equal match, they must have maximum protection from the agency, the agency is there among other things and to protect them, to save them in certain situations. One of the things I would certainly like to mention is the entrepreneurship climate in Croatia, and not only today, it is syndrome that wealth is a crime that we are dragging from the last country. It's amazing that even after 24 years of running from a responsible economy, we haven't freed ourselves from thinking as if it were a crime if someone got rich. Entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial activities have only one task, and that is besides developing creativity always profit, profit. Which means someone's more successful at their entrepreneurial activity. Successful entrepreneurs must be our pride and example for others to imitate them. Croatia must enable its citizens and citizens to materially enrich their entrepreneurial activities. Being rich isn't immoral, being rich doesn't mean being a bad member of the community, being rich means being successful, smart, capable. We should be proud of successful and wealthy entrepreneurs, we must give them social recognition and status as we should be proud and give social recognition and status to successful artists, athletes, teachers and any other who rise above average by their abilities and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86452	Thank you very much. Would you like the closing word? President of the Competition Protection Council Mr Mladen Cerovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86453	Thank you. Most of the talk here today is about everything the agency is not competent to do, not that it can't but can't work, but we'll leave that debate for another occasion. It may also be insufficient funds that the agency has for education to the general public because we don't have the money for seminars, when we keep them, none of these people actually show up to talk about what we should do. We see very, always the same people there, actually. Today, however, one problem was identified, which is the relationship between suppliers and traders. It stems from all these discussions and is constantly spinning there, and so I answered the final word that it may be a good time and an opportunity to say that just in July of this year, the European Commission carried out a communication with the Member States, so this is quite fresh, the material exists in Croatian two and three days ago, translated into Croatian and exists on the pages of a commission that talks about so-called. unfair trade practices. So they recognized in fact that in retail that between suppliers and merchants, retailer to say so, there is one ratio of economic dependence on the trader. This has been recognised especially in the food retail market. There, the Commission so far, you know that what you're like... He's been watching for 20 years, and then he finally decides on something that's good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Some markets, meanwhile, fail at all, come and disappear without ever regulating them, but here it has been transferred to the Member States for now. Some have already done it, some have not. It's actually because of this economic dependence on suppliers... traders recognize four types of these unfair trading practices. These are primarily the refusal of written forms of the contract, then the transfer of the financial burden to the supplier, so some unnecessary financial burdens where the trader, for example, is. Buy from you the goods, he becomes the owner of the goods, but he says the stolen goods will have to be paid. So even though that risk went to him a long time ago. There are cases like this, but we know about them from the culinary talks, but we've never been able to find it. And the third way is to retroactively change the terms of the contract. There is more, therefore it is stated, but of course there are some other practices. The Commission is urging Member States to regulate this at their level. How they'll do it, they don't say it, of course. Germany, Hungary and Slovakia, I think, as far as I know, have it arranged. It is sometimes done by competition agencies, but it is not in market competition regulations, but in the Law on Trade under those, as we do with such practices which are considered unfair. But the commission says that the body carrying out this must be independent and must be able to act on anonymous reports. Somewhere there are special food agencies that are doing this, somewhere by the ministries, a special body within the economy or economy, somewhere in the competition agency. In fact, one feedback to the Commission is expected, I hope it is the Ministry of Economy which I suppose should be interested in, to know about this communication, it is indeed a month old, so it may be an opportunity to sort it out in Croatia in some way. Of course it won't be overnight, but it's one process to protect a competition that's a young branch of law, 120 years old. Compared to Hamurabi's code, of course, it's nothing. And one more thing. There's so much that the agency should be doing. If the agency were to do it, do you really think 15 lawyers and 15 economists can do it all? These sectoral analyses that we translate, which are actually power for us, we find out on this basis precisely about some unfair practices, some illegal practices, and right now they're being punished by Konzum, Dukat, KTC and Kutjevo, precisely because of these contracts we found that way. But such sectoral analyses of the agencies in Europe don't work, they pay it to a special agency that collects data for them, and final analysts do it themselves, and that's why they have a small number of people. The Latin Agency has 130 employees, we have 50, with council members and a driver. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86454	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide on the annual report later. My colleagues and colleagues, we'll be done with this for the day. We continue on Wednesday 24 September with the Annual Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-09-19-0.u86455	We are moving to the Annual Report on the Agency's work on the protection of competition for 2013. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Economic Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion: - A report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2013. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find the conclusion accepted by 106 votes in favour, 1 against and 10 abstentions. That's what we did today's vote. Now I'm setting a 10-minute break and we'll continue our work. So we start at 12.52. It's 12.42 hours.
