ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81275	Good morning. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we continue our work. We will discuss - Report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2013 The Reporter is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the material. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Defence Committee and the Committee on War Veterans. You received the reports at the session. I'm asking, would the proposing's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Evelyn Tonkovic, Deputy Minister of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81276	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, the National Programme on Mine Action of the Republic of Croatia for 2013 established financial resources of HRK 572.5 million and a reduction of mine suspected area by 139.5 square kilometers. For humanitarian demining in 2013 the appropriations and financial resources spent amounted to 249 million, down 23.9 million kuna compared to 2012. In view of the fact that the financial resources available in 2013 are more than double the funding established by the programme since the implementation of the part of the programme in 2013, and as regards demining, it was not possible to implement it in the planned size programme. On 01 January 2013, the total size of the mine suspected area and the area polluted exclusively by unexploded killings in the Republic of Croatia was 685.5 km square and extended to 12 counties. In 2013, the next of the objectives set by the humanitarian demining plan was implemented. Reduced mine suspect area by 71.9 square miles. Mine suspected areas on 31 December 2013 were 613.6 km square, in 2013 mine suspected area was reduced by 71.9 km square, i.e. 10.5% compared to the baseline on 01 January 2013. Comparing the achievement of the plan with the one from the previous year in 2013 in the Republic of Croatia is 4.6 kilometers, which is 7% more reduced mine suspected area, although the financial resources spent in 2012 were 23.9 million kuna higher than spent in 2013. Mine demining business has reduced the mine suspect area by 32.3 km square. Compared to 2012 in the Republic of Croatia, a total of 6% more surfaces were demining. In 2013, after humanitarian demining, they were agreed on a larger than planned plan, with which the plan was transferred by 18.8%. In 2013, full demining of the town of Karlovac and the Municipality of Antunovac, Čacinci, Poličnik, Škabrnja, Starigrad and St. Philip and Jacob. In 2013, the largest share in the demining area structure with a share of 56.2% has agricultural surfaces, half of which wastes on orans of 9.3 square kilometers. The total achievement of demining operations in 2013 requires a prominent demining of 586 860 square meters of minefields within the Kotar forest in the town of Petrinja, by means of state budget, of Croatian Forests d.o.o. and JANAF d.d. and donations from INA d.d. And the U.S. Government. Of the total demining transactions agreed in 2013 42.6% refers to safety priorities, 53% to socioeconomic development and 44.4% to environmental priorities. During 2013, general reconnaissance was carried out in 9 cities and municipalities with the aim of updating mine suspected areas and following operations of demining to reduce. On that surface by applying the criteria set out in the standard operating procedure, the mine suspected area was reduced by 39.6 km square, and the plan relating to the specified matter was reached by 97%. The total removal of mine risk from Virovitica-Podravska County is in the final phase of analytical work, and technical survey operations in this area and will allow for the full resolution of the county mine problem. The creation of conditions for the overall removal of mine risk from Dubrovnik-Neretva County, all preparatory actions of the overall solution of the county mine problem in the first quarter of 2014 were carried out. A sufficient general implementation of the remaining mine suspected area in the municipalities of Dubrovnik Primorje and Konavle, the design and arrangement of demining operations and the work on the surface of 0.5 km has been carried out. Until the presentation of this report before the Croatian Parliament, all other agreed demining operations have been completed and Dubrovnik-Neretvanska is no longer a mine polluted area. Therefore, the government of the Republic of Croatia has allowed mine problems to be fully resolved on the current day of the two counties. The demining of 5.6 km oranics, the achievement of this goal has been exceeded by more than 50% since 9.2 km of failureal ornaments were demined during 2013, mostly in eastern Croatia. The total removal of mine risk from Krka National Park and Papuk Nature Park and the continuation of systematic removal of mine risk from Nature Park Kopački rit. Mine danger from Nature Park Papuk and Krka National Park has been removed entirely. In view of the unusually high water supply of the Danube River and thus the Danube water supply, the Drava River waterway and within the Kopački rit Nature Park as a prescribed limit for the performance of jobs in certain parts of the year in 2013 it was not possible to carry out planned demining operations in Kopački rit. But in co-operation with the county, the replacement demining of the Municipality of Antunovac was agreed with which the mine problem and part of the city of Osijek were completely solved. The marking of the entire mine suspected area was carried out in the scope and as set out in the 2013 plan. The mine suspected area of the Republic of Croatia is marked with 12,868 mine threat codes, of which 12,573 markings indicate mine suspected areas, and 295 marking the possible discovery of unexploded killings. The coordination and education of mine dangers and the assistance of mine victims, totalled 71 activities on mine risk during 2013 were educated directly around 8,900 people in the Republic of Croatia. An education of members of the Croatian Hunting Union, attended by about 340 members of hunting societies identified as one of the endangered mines. During 2013, a mine accident occurred, unfortunately, in which a civilian got lucky for a minor physical injury. A total of 1,353 mine incidents and accidents occurred in the Republic of Croatia from 1991 to 31 December 2013 in 1,976 of which 510 persons unfortunately died. The joint action of demining, education, marking and warning has led to a stop to child loss. The last one was in 2004. Two co-ordinations of government bodies and NGOs involved in mine victims' activities have been maintained. The promotion of the Croatian mine action system of the international community and the implementation of the signed international cooperation agreements was carried out in the scope and manner as set out in the 2013 plan. The launch and adoption of a new Law on Mine Action and Sublegal Acts, in line with the 2013 plan, started with a new concept to be the Law on Mine Action, not just humanitarian demining. This is intended to cover all components of mine action or activities that have not been or have not been sufficiently regulated by the existing law, such as mine danger education and mine victims' assistance. It is also one of the starting points and aligning with the new achievements of international mine action standards, especially those relating to the performance of technical reconnaissance and the possibility of identifying the non-pollution of mine suspected areas. Finally, the reorganisation of the Croatian Mine Action Centre. In 2013 a reorganisation of the Croatian Mine Action Centre was carried out in such a way as to reduce the number of management officers and design units, i.e. so far, the structure provided for by two deputy directors and six assistants by amending the statutes in such a way that the director does not have a deputy and has three assistants. Business and operation organized through the Central Office in Sisak and two branches instead of the three then, based in Osijek and Zadar. While the responsibilities of the former branch of Karlovac were taken over by the central office in Sisak and the branches of the east and south of Osijek and Zadar. This reorganisation has contributed to the savings of 5 million 323 889 kuna in the position of the state budget management and administration, allowing these funds to be rerouted during the rebalancing of the state budget to the position of A67 2007 demining and thus demining an additional nearly 700 thousand metres of mined space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81277	I thank the Deputy Minister. We have a single replica reported. Dear Igor Radjenović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81278	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is just a short, of course this report is good and I commend it and it is a substantial improvement compared to the previous year and of course I also commend all the work of the Croatian Mine Action Centre itself on some developments, you also spoke positively about the arrival of a new director, etc., there will probably be a lot of words in today's debate. But what is crucial for this House is respecting the programs and decisions that we ourselves have made. In fact, we brought this Parliament a national demining programme in 2009 so from year to year and predicted that each year certain mine suspected areas would therefore be demining, and for this we would provide certain resources. Mr. Tonkovic said in the first sentence what is actually our... In this House, this National Programme predicted that we would mine 139 this year if I didn't cheat two square miles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And with the programme, and on the basis of the resources provided in the state budget, we could only demining 72 of the funds that we ourselves provided in this budget are more than twice as much as what should be foreseen by the programme. We colleagues and colleagues only have twice. One thing is to change the purpose of our own credibility and responsibility. It is one thing to change the National Mine Action Programme and adapt it to the opportunities and circumstances that we therefore have for both financial and all others. And the second is that, when the budget is passed, we respect this current National Mine Action Programme, saying that we brought in 2009 ourselves and provided sufficient funds for demining. I commend all the work, and probably on behalf of all the clubs, they'll say how positively they've done it, but our fundamental responsibility is to respect what we've brought ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81279	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labourist-Stranka Work Club, a respected colleague, Branko Vuksic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81280	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. If any business we can talk about is literally bloody, then it's a demining business. Pirotechnicians, unlike other professions, wear their heads in a bag every day when they're in a minefield. Their going to work is going into suspense. Although almost 2,000 people have been killed since the beginning of the war, even 510 people die, Croatia is not paying serious attention to demining. So far, 37 exterminators have died in demining operations, those who work day by day fear for their salaries. Despite Croatia's need for them, despite Croatian pyrotechnicians being top experts, they are afraid to have work tomorrow. Croatia should be free of mines by 2019. Is that really gonna happen? He won't. The remaining 600km of square will not be able to mine by the end of this decade. Experts also say the demining will continue for another decade. And we're not rich enough to let that happen. As early as October this year, demining money will disappear, as the government in rebalancing by 7 million kuna has reduced demining funds. And the pyrotechnicians will be on minimum while awaiting the government's merciful decision for the next 2015 and its 2.3 rebalancing. Not only is the uncertain fate of 36 demining companies and 630 pyrotechnics, it is uncertain the fate of people of them about 800,000 living alongside mine suspected areas. Due to unprocessed agricultural land, annual losses are estimated at 50m euros, although the hand on the heart and on demining and agricultural land that has never been mined only grows weeds. So hypothetically, the countries that care about their agricultural land would lose 50m euros a year, we may not lose. Here are the concrete remarks in the report. Demining operations aimed at reducing through 18 demining idea projects removed the danger of a surface of 3 million 536 square meters in the report if the danger is removed from the surface by not entering it. In accordance with 2013 in the Republic of Croatia, the total demining area is 32 million square meters. That's not true because it's really demining 28 million square meters and the rest is under quotes "written" without physical entry into mine suspected space. If that puts people's lives at risk, we can only assess. The pyrotechnics say they are. The report says that Dubrovnik-Neretva County is 3.5 times more demining than planned. Is there any particular reason for this, or was the demining plan drawn up in 2012 by unprofessional and incompetent people? Why are competitions being held at a time when works cannot be performed, planically, mountainous areas in the winter months, the banks of rivers at the time of the flood, Slavonia at the time of the drought when the soil is very hard? The report also states that, in order to assist CROMAC members in working on the Law on Mine Action and finding the best solutions, all of their professional employees, as well as part of CROMAC’s professional employees, are also involved in the demining of Mungos. And that's incorrect. True, the director approved a CROMAC task force that met three times and never had the opportunity to present and defend its proposals. The profession was not asked when drawing up a proposal for a new anti-mining act in which employers, the Ministry of Trade and Union Representatives worked, and one of the comments said: "I am also giving you an explanation of my own, as well as the opinion of many supervisory colleagues, why I consider the bill a criminal act and why well-intentioned CROMAC employees should not give legitimacy to a commission which clearly intends to compromise the security of the Republic of Croatia. Professional surveillance has been lifted, and the profession is recognised only by the infringing provisions. It would be too far-reaching to elaborate all the facts of the bill, which are contrary to international standards, so I will mention only one that clearly points to the performance of employers and CROMACs, which you ignore. Therefore, there is no quality control on the technical reconnaissance operations provided by CROMAC to legal persons or craftsmen. Obviously, there's more perversion than a search. I remind you once again that CROMAC has a professional commission to draft a bill whose opinion and proposal is completely ignored. That's why I can't have a different opinion in this unprofessional and malicious misdemeanor." In addition, the fact is that one of the members of the CROMAC working group for the draft of this law was fired in Mungos, and the group leader retired. The report does not provide an answer, so it would be interesting to hear today orally or in writing the answers and the following questions. Where are the jobs shown obtained by direct contracts without competitions, and why are competitions avoided? What is the value of the works obtained by the contract and which companies received jobs without competition. How many pens are charged for unwarranted delays? Double criteria are introduced for the company in which the current director of CROMAC worked. Where the field of military or payment of a guarantee was to be examined, it is then declared technically inconclusive by the currently prescribed methods, while at the same time taking over similar areas as demining and handing over to use although they are demining according to the currently prescribed methods. So two criteria. The introduction of the report is set out in 2013 by CROMAC with the consent of the Office for Mine Action of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Regional Development and the European Union funds, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Ministry of Environment and Nature, the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Finance. Where is the consent of the Ministry of the Interior? As far as I know, the plan didn't first get the consent of the Ministry of the Interior Inspectorate. What was the problem? We should know. The Law on humanitarian demining explicitly states: The Government of the Republic of Croatia adopts a humanitarian demining plan for an annual and three-year period, a proposal for a national programme of mine action and a plan to produce CROMAC with the consent of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism and Transport, Development, Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Environmental Protection, Transport and Construction and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. Therefore, this report also stated that it also gave consent to the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Mine Action Office when it was not prescribed in the law. In addition, the government's office gave its consent, not an opinion. The Head of the Office is also the President of the CROMAC Management Council. Isn't that a conflict of interest? Namely, the body in which the Director gives consent to the other body in which she is the President of the Governing Council. Nonsens. It can only happen in Croatia. It's even prescribed by the government's mine-mining regulation. The Office monitors the work, activity and action of CROMAC, and when we are at the conflict of interest, I do not understand how the CROMAC Board of Directors and the Assistant Minister of Interior Mrs Ines Krajčak, whose portfolio is also the Inspectorate of the Ministry of Interior, who is obliged to oversee the work of CROMAC. How what Mrs. Krajczak votes administratively will be supervised by her directly subordinated officers. The report is unclear as to what INA donations of 500 000 kuna have been spent on several locations, on several occasions and each time 500 000 kuna. It is necessary to invest funds from the state budget in demining one of the most polluted areas with mine-explosive assets in the territory of Croatia, which is the one in which 12 residents of the petrinj settlement have been killed so far. Why doesn't it seem? In this case, CROMAC was working against a national mine action programme adopted by the parliament in 2009. Below table 9 on page 19 is mentioned during the implementation of the projects that have been carried out expert surveillance of the completed search or demining operations, was found, destroyed and now I should read which all mines have been destroyed and strangled with it. The quoted part repeats the anti-walking mines PM 2, for the first time 484 PM 2, the second time 442. Whether this was to be summed up and 926 pieces were found and destroyed, or other types of anti-walking mines. It's astounding to be the ease of mistakes with mine-explosive means. In a specific table for each individual project implemented, both the type and quantity of the explosive found should be expressed and such data should be published in a timely manner, except in the report, in order to get to know the public, but also to see how much explosives have been found and how much it costs to find each. The report also says this, in 2013, a tip was received for 12 mine-explosive inventions and unexploded killings, of which 8 findings were related to areas which were subject to operations and four findings were related to areas outside mine suspected areas. The report does not explain the areas in which mine-explosive assets were subsequently found or whether adequate applications were filed against the responsible persons in CROMAC or companies, whether applications were filed against the responsible persons in the companies working on those projects. It also still does not explain what explosives were found and what danger they posed to the citizens. And how is it even possible to happen after all these massive controls and entities in humanitarian demining business? This is not a very small problem with this report only six lines. Every little bit in the media we see that an explosive agent has been found, and here in the CROMAC report, it is said that such funds were only 12. Does the D.O.P. have any information? Hundreds, if not thousands of inventions all over our beautiful are found every year, and the report says I repeat 12. On 1 January 2012, the total size of the mine suspected area and the area polluted exclusively by unexploded deadly means in the Republic of Croatia is 685.5 km square, extends within 99 cities and municipalities in 12 counties and is marked with 13899 tags that point to mine danger and possible find of unexploded killings. However, the report also said that on 31 December 2013, the mine suspected territory of the Republic of Croatia was marked with 12860 mine threat codes. Where did 1031 mine threat tag go? Does this mean that CROMAC does not take care of mine danger markings, and thus does not implement the law in humanitarian demining. I'd like to know why the Centre for Mine Action was established and the Government's Mine Action Office. Is that for hiring new seven people? And these two institutions whose competencies are evidence of this government's waste. At the time when the paragraph of the demining budget is cut, there must be almost a million and a half kuna for salaries of government office employees, who read his tasks and tasks of the Mine Action Centre, with which there is a Fund of Croatia without mines completely exceeded, as are also the excessively numerous other offices, agencies and councils. In addition, Prime Minister Milanovic has been easy to say that the state is too expensive and will remain so. Why on earth? To protect the party's acronyms, the acronyms of many parties, the current and the former authorities. And while the pyrotechnics who carry their heads in a garbage bag every day are less than a kuna per square metre of the mined area of the government with a cap and a fist throws money at them. And I still don't understand much. When the demining and institutions that take care of demining is asked what do they have to do with demining the esteemed professor Neven Budak, energyian Goran Granic, designer Davor Bruketa and head director of HRT Goran Radman. You wonder why I'm counting them now? So they are at the Croatian Mine Action Centre experts, and they have nothing to do with demining. Even they don't know the mine of a can of beans, but they have ties to the parties in power. This report will not be supported by Croatian Labourists.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81281	Thank you. We've got two lines reported. First honourary colleague Hrvoje Nekic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81282	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Vuksic, you've made a good point of being arrogant and wasteful in the government's office...
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81283	Keep going. I called my colleague Nekic, but you called anyway. Come on, Hrvoje Neklic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81284	Comrade Vuksic that I fully agree with you in what you said that the work of a pyrotechnician is actually a difficult job to compare with any other. But it's hard actually to understand that you are now announcing and scaring people, I'm going to say you're scaring people when you say that pyrotechnics will be out of work anytime soon. I mean, I can't agree with you at all. That's the first thing. And another thing. When you mentioned priorities, I hope you know, and you should know that priorities are set in agreement between the counties and the ministries. So that determines which areas are the most critical and how and when to enter and demining areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81285	The replica matches Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81286	Dear colleague, I'm not an expert in mine action. What I was saying was the fruit of a briefing with experts. Therefore, they say the money for demining is up to 10 months old and a more repeated situation will be repeated. Second of all, you said you were agreeing on what priority areas were. Why is the area where 12 people died not a priority, and who agreed that this area was not a priority? Which is why some areas, some of the birds on the mountains, are priority, and where people live, they don't demine the area. Another thing I'm saying. If someone scares both citizens and pyrotechnics, it's precisely the fact that the demining budget has been cut and no one cares about 510 dead people from the mines and no one cares about the fact that the pyrotechnics are dying and no one cares about their relationship with these pyrotechnics.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81287	Now the opportunity to replicate is also received by the respected Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81288	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Vuksic, you have well concluded that there is wastefulness, haughtiness, and conflict of interest in the government office of the Republic of Croatia, which is also a sponsor of the symposium held from 23rd to 25th April in Zadar in a 5-star hotel. I think he's clearly talking about whether the goal is to waste money or direct them where they are most needed. Since more than half, more than twice the demining budget has been reduced, it is clear that spending on such large buildings in Zadar in a 5-star hotel certainly speaks of the fact that, with conflict of interest with the care of political similar personnel, the Office for Mine Action at the Head with the Director Mrs. Pleština must still be lax and waste money as well as the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81289	The replica matches Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81290	Dear counterpart Djakic I know of this symposium that was held in Zadar at a 5-star hotel. One third of those who were supposed to show up canceled when they heard what cadifi and silks the Mine Action Conference was held and I think it is anti-propaganda for Croatia and for the demining relationship. So, when you cut off budget funds to demining the government's office, you actually spend money on unnecessary things and boast at a hotel where you probably don't even have government officials staying.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81291	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, the Honorable Damir Cain will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81292	Dear Vice President, gentlemen MPs are clearly spending on 5-star hotels, let them use Valtura, it's the center of the MUP where the costs are 80% lower than the costs they had in Zadar. But it's too late today, but in the future it will. Last time I met this Mine Action Center, I know he met in Valtura. Croatia needs to be demined, we heard earlier, so another 685 square kilometers. So, what we call it or what's called a suspected mine area. That's gonna cost us 248 million kuna, if that's the right information. The 2013 plan included a reduction in the mine area by 68 square km, but 32 km was demined in 2013 and reduced by a general survey of 39.5 km. That's the total we just heard 71.9 kilometers ago. The 2013 plan was transferred by 18.5%. What should certainly be quoted, what should be commended that in 2013 from the overall achievement, there is a need to highlight the full demining of the city of Karlovac, the Municipality of Antunovac, Čacinci, Poličnik, Škabrnje, Starigrad and St. Philip and Jacob. What am I saying? Yes, all those or all of us who weren't directly affected by the war in some way are happy. Right, everyone in Croatia has been directly or indirectly involved in the '91 Homeland War. By '95, but I repeat, happy are those who were not directly affected by war operations or whose territory was not under war operations. While one is dealing with municipal infrastructure, while one is not familiar with the arrangement of facades, others have to deal with restoration and even with the basics that there might even be words of restoration, which is the demining of their territory or territory. And it is clear that demining should continue and that it should be done. There's nothing to think about. Mines must be clearly removed. What is also important, let me quote, that at CROMAC in early 2013 33 legal persons who hired 636 pyrotechnics and owned 53 demining machines and 20 dogs were accredited to detect these mine explosives. In late December 2013, 36 legal persons were accredited to carry out search and demining operations with 609 pyrotechnicians, 48 demining machines, 20 dogs, etc. Companies accredited at CROMAC are to the greatest extent authorised to carry out search and demining operations by hand mine detection and by means of demining machines. In total, 17 legal entities, 5 legal entities are authorised to do business with dogs for the detection of these mines, etc., etc. Personally, I don't know if my predecessor also said there's no more ungrateful business than this, at least that's what it looks like to me, to ask, under quotes to "repel" those mines. On page 25 of this report, the number of victims in the Republic of Croatia has been reported since '98. until 2013. I just want to say we're '98. The year they had 92 victims, 2013 One victim. It's been in the Republic of Croatia since '91. By 31 December 2013 in 1353 mine incidents and accidents were killed in 1976, 510 of which were fatal. So once again, 510 people have been killed by mines since '91. until 2013. I would almost dare say symbolically that in Croatia after the war there is another war with a need or the consequences of eliminating the consequences of these wars. I repeat, 510 is a death victim. It should also be said and acknowledged that Croatia is devoting billions and billions of kunas to repair the damages of the war and it must be a priority pair of excellence. For disabled wars, for example. which is the permanent obligation of every Parliament, every government, is set aside at an annual level of around 5 billion kuna. And only for demining from 98th to the end of 2013 did Croatia allocate 4.2 billion kuna. And there's this data that we see is 98. Croatia singled out 91 million kuna, 99. 181 million and then it all goes up 2000. 187 million kuna, 2001. 230 million kuna, 2002, even 342 million kuna, 2003. 281 million kuna, 2004. 313 million, 2013 not to list all that data, 249 million kuna. But what's interesting is that 33.8 million kuna has been spent for the administration. Indeed, someone said before, the question arises whether these parallel bodies are even needed and whether it is possible to reduce even here, for example. and expenses. I would just like to mention that the president's office, president of the Republic of Croatia's office, spends about 43 million kuna on an annual basis, means 10 million kuna more than this Office of Mine Action spends. I think it's just that all these costs need to be reduced in some way. Clearly, mines should be removed, costing it what it cost, but more money needs to go for mine removal, and less for this administration of these jobs. Just to pull one parallel, if this office spends 33.8 million kuna, I said the President's office spends about 43 million kunas on an annual basis, the entire Government 230 million kunas, and this Parliament not only representatives, but all that serves the work of the Croatian Parliament somewhere around 140 million kunas per year. Yes, Croatia has that problem. Why? Because in the upgrade of 2014, around 70, 80,000 people work more than 90, with material costs that is more than 10 billion kuna to be provided on an annual basis either in the state budget, whether in the budgets of local self-government and the question is how far we will be able to do so. State-owned companies, we see in this report, participate in mine removal with a amount of 41 million kuna. From forests and beyond, while from European funds it is realised 2013. 23.3 million kuna or to be more precise 23 299 350 kuna, that's a 9% circus, if I calculated correctly, the need for funds in 2013 when we spent 248 741 000 kuna. So, this information also says that we should trust ourselves"In and in our paws", others can help us, as Europe with the 23.3 million kuna helps, but normally all the burden and future will be on those who fill the state budget. Therefore, we do not need to be engrossed in the idea that someone on the side will finance what is really necessary in these areas, even though on the other hand we know that it is only or that in 2014 alone, it will go from the state budget to Brussels about 4 billion kuna. We're counting on four billion kuna to return, but we're also not going to make priorities, but they're going to tell us what these money is going to be spent on by someone who's tabled in Brussels or Strasbourg. And for the end, maybe VAT on demining. The average price of all demining operations realised in 2013 was 6.15 kuna per metre square metre without VAT, i.e. 7.69 kuna per square metre with VAT. So 1 euro is equal to the demining of 1 square metre in the Republic of Croatia. Personally, I believe that VAT for demining, if it must not already be based on European directives 0%, then it must be the least possible. Whether 5%, or 10%, but it has to be at least possible. The Law on the Resuscitation of Flooded Spaces, which is likely to be referred today to the parliamentary procedure or what we will vote on, which we will put on the agenda today, I think should cover this issue, and that, for demining simply, VAT from these 25% should be reduced to the least possible measure, normally respecting the European directives. We know that the zero VAT rate can't be used, but let's make it 5%, or make it 10%, but either way, when we have a space of differentiated rates, we should think about it. Once again, the average price of all demining transactions realised in 2013 was 6.15 kuna per square metre, i.e. 7.69 kuna per square metre with VAT. So one square meter equals the demining area of one brand. What are the risks, which is the effort, which is the uncertainty of whether those who enter these minefields will return to their families and what they will return to, on another occasion. One word, thank them. Personally, I believe this report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan for 2013 should be supported. I know it's done as much as possible, I mentioned that for 2013, even that plan was transferred by 18% and again on the trail of those suggestions where, how to spend money, less on administration, and more on what is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81293	Thank you. Two replicas have been reported. First honourary colleague Hrvoje Nekic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81294	Yes, Comrade Cain, I agree with you. The costs for administration should be reduced, the operating resources should also be increased, so I welcome the fact that unlike before, CROMAC now has one director and three assistants which I personally consider a rationalisation-oriented move. I also agree with you that a reduction in VAT rates should be considered if there is a possibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81295	Second replica, respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81296	Thank you very much. Comrade Cain, good thing you mentioned VAT in terms of demining, let me say, per square meter and compared one square meter, one euro, that means we have to demine another 600 million square meters and we need 600 million euros for the final demining of the Republic of Croatia. But there is something else, it is that many donors who were willing and willing to give a demining donation in Croatia have been defused by the fact that VAT of 25% will be charged on their donation. I also have a direct example, I won't speak the donor's name and in which county, where the donor gave up when he heard that the funds that they would pay 25% of the VAT will be paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81297	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS club, a respected colleague, Marijan Skuric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81298	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with an associate. My colleagues and fellow MPs. The humanitarian demining plan for 2013 is in line with the Ministry of the Interior and other institutions' strategic plan to protect rescue for the period 2012-2014. It relates to the reduction of land pollution by mines and explosives... to the specific objective and proportionate to the financial resources available in 2013. The plan was developed by the Croatian Mine Action Centre, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia held its session on 18 July 2013 and adopted the same plan. Croatia is one of the 80 countries in the world with mine problems that has ratified the Convention on the Prohibition of Use, Storage and Transport of Mines and Mine Action during the first 1997, so-called ...the convention. In the context of the national mine action programme and for the period 2009 to 2019, the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to fully removing mines from the areas for rebuilding houses, infrastructure, from agricultural areas, meadows and pastures over the next 4 to 5 years. Regardless of all the troubles we face, which are the biggest in this debate, and also in previous reports, we have heard that, above all, they are of financial nature. But the deadline we set for March 1st, 2019, should not be exceeded. The national mine action programme for 2013 planned to reduce the total suspected area by 139 square kilometres, which would require a total of 572.5 million kuna. It was a plan according to the national programme. This report defined that the laid groundwork for this plan for 2013 established a mine suspected area and an area exclusively polluted by non-explosive means in... 685 square kilometers left and mine suspected spaces reduced by 72 square kilometers, and the planned funding of 294 million kuna of which for humanitarian demining operations is 248 million kuna. And when we compare what we've given ourselves the task of the national mine action programme brought by this Parliament and the basis of the starting base for the 2013 plan and the previous plans, then we see that this plan... is about 10.5%. It is then that if we go to this intensity that it will take us 10 years to completely remove mine explosive assets from our area or if we want it to be within our 2015 programme, in the coming years we should double the plan more and twice as fast to realize it. Whether it is possible or not, it is always questionable whether this problem is always only in money or whether it is in less political will. On the other hand, we can't say that now it's just a problem back a year, two years ago, we haven't made that backlog a big one in 10 to 15 years. This delay is difficult to catch up on, but this government, ministry, above all, and the Croatian Mine Action Centre is doing very well now, good measures and I absolutely commend them for what has been done these two years. What we would like to point out is that Croatia is mineless, then this plan in 2013 we can stress, that, already there are cities, primarily Karlovac, Municipality of Antunovac, Čacinci, Poličnik, Škabrnja, Starigrad and St. Philip and Jacob who solved the mine problem. And in that strategic part it is that out of 11 counties where it is present that already for two counties we can say that already this year, last year they are cleared of mines. When we talk about the structure of demining surfaces, then we can especially point out that 56.2% participate in agricultural areas, forests with 34%, and maquis, and debris with 9%. And half of the demining agricultural areas are orans, in the size of 9 square kilometers, the remaining agricultural land, i.e. meadows and pastures are demining... in the size of 8.7 square kilometers. And yes, that was the question of who determines what will be mined first, where are the priorities? What argument is that? Well, that argument always starts at the lowest level, that's the municipalities, the cities, that's the county. And that part is very much taken into account, but it has to be done in other segments, especially when we say that the biggest negative impact for the mine problem is created in the area of agriculture, where it is already estimated that the loss due to the unprocessed agricultural area is about 50 million euros and at an annual level. In addition, it is a non-quality country that has not been processed for 20 years and is ideal for organic production. And in this part of the strategy we need to see what we do best. When we also talk about those other values, above all, the area of the forest at this point, it is not yet possible to reach trees that are worth around 160 million euros, and of course that resource, if it is not used as agriculture, is irrevocable to us. And now that we're analyzing the total area that we have that we need to demine everything and the sequence of activities, the question is do we have the capacity, can we do it? When we analyze that the Croatian Mine Action Centre was in the beginning of 2013 it was in total... 33 legal persons who hired 636 pyrotechnics and owned 53 demining machines and 20 dogs to detect mine unexploded funds. The costs of accreditation are to the greatest extent authorized by... demining and by hand... with the help of demining machines, and such are 17 legal persons. 5 legal entities are authorised to carry out operations for dogs for the detection of mine unexploded funds while 14 legal entities are authorised only to carry out demining operations by hand mine detection. There is a need for what the Croatian Mine Action Centre is doing now so that we can nevertheless conclude that Croatia has managed to introduce one of the best quality and most respected demining systems in the world and has enough human and technical resources to carry out tasks under the National Mine Action Programme. But, of course, in that part, since we agreed that demining is not the picking of strawberries, it is an extremely dangerous job primarily of life-threatening work, we believe that the basis of the new Anti-mining Act, which I said in the last debate and what is done in that section, would give rise to the conditions for the opening of new companies and would increase the minimum number of employees of pyrotechnicians and seek a higher level of equipment of the company. By introducing temporary accreditations so that, during the duration of this company's accreditation, they are not able to report independently to public competitions but only to work as subcontractors or subcontractors. That's what I'd really like to say is that of the 33 accredited legal persons when you analyze, they have four employees and more. I think that with 4 employees, it is absolutely difficult to do this extremely complex and dangerous job and especially what is important what happens before on the ground, and now I am very much emphasising the work and merits of this government and the Croatian Mine Action Centre have competed with each other and, of course, if they got a job, they couldn't do it quality, what is most important, and even within that time period, they were canceling their competitions, but the subcontractors ended up having problems. It wasn't paid to each other, there was again the abolition of certain legal entities, the establishment of new ones with the same persons, and we were unfortunately witnesses back 10 years that this was happening. Now, I think that this Anti-minal Act, I think that such things should be done in a way that should be reduced in a way. The same thing when we talk about professional surveillance activities carried out by 24 pyrotechnic overseers and 12 pyrotechnic surveillance should be said that we have illogicalities in one whole demining issue so far. so that we can point out again, I also mentioned this about the past report that people who work in general scout and write off these areas of mine suspected terrain are turning into safe, and employees of the Croatian Mine Action Centre and work as pyrotechnics for which they receive adequate pay and have associated benefits, and they don't practically enter mine suspected space and such a method of working for the job then they don't need pyrotechnicians. Someone else can do that, because for that insight they work from a safe area like paved roads secured roads. And then again I ask the question is, how can such be security on those surfaces? Of course, what is a trend to really reduce the number of people, but to make these people much more professional, much more efficient so that the way general reconnaissance works and physical entry into those areas enables people who are paid for the job and, of course, to do the right thing. And after professional surveillance of search and demining operations, a geodetic measurement is carried out. They would also propose that the law and define that the geodetic measurement must be done immediately after the demining work has been completed because the report mentions if we are doing this later we have two problems. The first problem is that you do not know about this time period in some way what can happen to you again and again in that part, and the second is that the legal person himself has certain additional costs. If the entire operation after two, three weeks or a month has to be returned to make a geodetic measurement, then it's an additional cost. If something is done or at least in phases, a geodetic measurement can be made immediately after that part. When all the people there are present, the operation can be done in a very good way, and then it serves even better and better. What we're saying in all of this is to be more efficient, more operational, then the greatest intensity, above all, and those who deal with demining is safe and of course the entire population. And here we want to further contribute to the quality and safety of life in Croatia and raise awareness and public awareness and encourage others to actively engage in solving this problem. So what we can say is quite well, once again commending the Croatian Mine Action Centre through 30 lectures and presentations held during... In the year 3590 citizens were educated, mostly from kindergarten to upper secondary school. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's all done... The activity and education of 8900 citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wouldn't ask for it at all if it needed money, whether it was a general cost to prevent it, never enough money to lie, never enough money to educate the population of citizens and especially the youngest. Here's all these activities and this work we can say that since 31 December of '91, unfortunately. ... The year is in 1353 mines... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Falling... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] a person of 510 fatalities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But when you see a trend in the report that only with one fatal injury, or one minor physical injury in 2013, is not, and one person is too much. But that trend or those activities that were made in education, improving the working conditions that certainly contributed to a condition like this. What you'd like to mention in particular, and I need to make sure that it's... the year and importance of developing international cooperation seeking to establish cooperation and partnership with all relevant international entities and in mine action. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? So that anti-mine action must also be an economic segment. And we would have to sort of define this demining system to be an export business, that domestic companies each in their own way try to break into a foreign market on their own but failed. We haven't got a single specific job so far. And yes, there should be state support just in a way to ensure favourable loans, bank guarantees on market access and, of course, a reduction in VAT on the activities carried out in that part. We talked about finance on this, for demining purposes, we find that the largest part comes from the budget and by legal persons also from donations from the European Union funds and without funding, meaning demining without compensation is a reduction trend and we need to invest additionally there to find quality funds. The last demining price was... Kuna with VAT and now when you ask the price ranged from 30 kuna and some to three kunas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then it's always a question of whether it's more cost-effective to paint tunnels or who might have been changing ceramics lately knows that it's costing him 8 euros per square. After all, as I conclude, I believe that Croatia must recognise demining as an economic, security and environmental problem, mines are evil. Of the total contracts, 46.2% refers to security, socio-economic development and environmental nature. This must be one of our top priorities, this government has realized it and together with the Croatian Mine Action Centre I commend their work. And to all of us, we have to be serious. Let's take it up to... [[Intruder: Bring the end.]] To achieve Croatia's mine-free goal and the HNS-A-Liberal Democrats Club will support the report. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81299	Thank you. To this exhibition we have a single replica, respected by Croatia Nekic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81300	Yes, a colleague, Škvarić, in 2019, is the year that is scheduled for the programme. Unfortunately, however, the plan is now difficult to achieve. So we need to consider whether to change the national plan or to provide enough resources to actually achieve the target. So it's up to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81301	The replica corresponds to the respected Marijan Škvarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81302	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow, there are plans to stick to them. And as long as that plan is in place, we and our task is also in this House, our parliamentary representatives because we have brought it, the resolution ministries, the Government and the Croatian Mine Action Centre to find opportunities and conditions to realize it. The basic condition we said was financing. So we need to find additional resources to include it. This is a difficult time of recession, the government makes maximum funding from the state budget. We said, so legal persons should be involved. In my opinion, Croatian forests should be alone and now here is the good work of the Croatian forests we see that they have a good income to invest these funds to demine their territory. But it's not just the cost as we look at it, it's an investment because we're liberating an area that we can later use economically and exploit and create a new value. That's how we should look and see that trend in that part. Croatian waters also, the oil industry, INA also, each of its own areas to make I think they would already have a lot more resources. And, of course, the use of the European Union funds. We need to make quality programmes, projects, and I really believe that the European Union has the means to help us. And what I said from the economic, economic and environmental problem that we can find the means to what we planned with the action plan to... Let's do it for years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81303	The SDP club's position will bring the respected Hrvoje Nekic closer to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81304	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. When we talk about the mine problem and mine action in the Republic of Croatia, we can say that a major and visible shift has been made in solving this particular problem faced by the Republic of Croatia in the course of and especially since the Homeland War. The Republic of Croatia today is safe from mine danger in all parts of transport infrastructure, tourist destinations, garden restoration areas and areas around facilities of social purpose. The government of the Republic of Croatia has recognized the mine problem as security of economic and ecological and has confirmed this in all key mine action components. Mostly by ensuring stable sources of funding in the state budget, loans from the World Bank and public enterprises of the Republic of Croatia, European Union funds, as well as good and transparent relations with the international donor community and donors in the country. Important tasks in the next period are, as has been, co-ordination of mine danger education and assistance to mine victims, which is continuously carried out with a number of organisations and associations, as well as with state administration bodies. With the proper selection of priority projects, constant education, the number of victims has been reduced year by year, and it is important to say that so far it has been stressed that the last children were killed in 2004. Many agreements have been signed with 10 countries in the world that we want to provide professional assistance with our knowledge and experience. Furthermore, our basic tasks will be to reduce mine suspected space to all available methods today, constantly warn of the existing mine danger, maintain the marking of mine suspected spaces, implement all prescribed control measures on demining sites. Our goal is to achieve the role of a stable and effective partner in the world's anti-mining community, and the experience gained, knowledge and ability to build into the global problem of mine-solving in the world. Let me, as well as my colleagues before me, give you a few figures. So demining business mine suspected space was reduced in 2013 by 32.3 km2. Compared to 2012 in the Republic of Croatia 6% more surfaces were demined. In 2013, humanitarian demining operations were contracted to a larger extent than planned, with which the humanitarian demining plan for 2013 was transferred by 18.8%. I will not read what kind of mines are removed, but I will continue to show that in 2013 a complete demining of the city of Karlovac and the Municipality of Antunovac, Čacinci, Poličnik, Škabrnja, Starigrad and Sveti Filip and Jakov is needed. The largest share in the demining area structure with a share of 56.2% has agricultural areas, half of which is waste on orans of 9.3 km2. Of the total demining transactions in 2013 42.6% refers to safety priorities, 53% to socioeconomic development and 4.4% to environmental priorities. During 2013, general reconnaissance was carried out in 9 cities and municipalities with the aim of updating mine suspected areas after demining operations and all in order to reduce. On that surface, using the criteria set out in the standard operating procedure, the mine suspected area was reduced by 39.6 km2 and the plan relating to the specified matter was achieved by 97%. The aim set by the Mine Action Plan 5.6 km2 oran was exceeded by more than 50% since 9.3 km2 of oranica was demined in the course of 2013. With regard to the objective of systematic removal of mine risk protected areas, I am pleased to note that the same in the area of Nature Park Papuk and Krka National Park is fully met, while given the unusually high water supply of the Danube River and the waterway of the Drava River within the Nature Park Kopački rit, as well as the prescribed restrictions for the execution of jobs on certain parts of the year, it was not possible in 2013 to carry out planned demining operations in Kopački rit. The objective of maintaining the mark-up of all mine suspected areas was carried out in the scope and manner set out in the 2013 plan. Mine suspected areas of the Republic of Croatia were marked with 12868 mine threat codes, of which 12573 markings indicate mine suspected areas, and 295 marking the possible discovery of unexploded killings. It is also in line with the tasks set out in the 2013 plan, starting with the new concept under which the Mine Action Act should be, not just humanitarian demining. with a view to covering all mine action components, i.e. those activities that have not been or have not been sufficiently regulated by the existing law, such as mine danger education and mine victims' assistance. Also, one of the starting points is to align with the new achievements of international standards of mine action, especially those relating to the performance of technical reconnaissance and the possibility of identifying the non-pollution of mine suspected areas. Finally, I would like to point out with great satisfaction that Virovitica-Podravska County and Dubrovnik-Neretva County have been completely cleared from mines, while for 2015, the same is foreseen for Brod-Posavina and Vukovar-Srijem County. Let me finally thank all pyrotechnicians, CROMACs, all who contribute to cleaning Croatia from mines. The SDP club will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81305	Thank you. We have two replicas. First of all, the esteemed Tinker Millas.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81306	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In your discussion, you said that the Government of the Republic of Croatia recognized the importance of demining in the Republic of Croatia. So I have to say that it's only in itself normal, but I really don't see what you're saying and I can justify whether they've reduced the funds more than twice compared to the ones that are scheduled for the national programme, and at the same time they've set up a demining office that I don't really know what they're doing, what their competencies are. In addition to the advice, or council today as it is called, which is responsible for the work of CROMAC as many employees. Even last time in my debate, I asked for a written, pardoned note to be delivered to me how many employees there are and how much office costs are. But to this day I didn't get it, so I don't see what it is that they understand the importance of demining right when we have a chance when they're the key years for demining. 2013 and 2014 respectively, all resources should be withdrawn in order to put demining at the level at which it should be and so that it can be justified, i.e. to reach a national programme in 2019, so that Croatia can end mine-free demining. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81307	Replication response, Hrvoje Neklic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81308	... to stress again the importance of reorganisation of the administration, above all the Croatian Mine Action Centre where we now have a director and three assistants unlike before. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] [[Intruder Stazic: Microphone.]] And yes, I agree with you, that I can absolutely agree with you that it is necessary to secure as much resources as possible for this activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81309	Second replica, Honored Marijan Škurić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81310	Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. In gratitude, you said that I am also stressing this question that the funds are twice as small as I mentioned in my debate from the national programme, but they are at a level as they have been in almost ten to fifteen years. It means that in these difficult recession times when we can say 2013, 2012, the eleventh year is the same. When we were in a much better situation, he didn't stand out much more. And we had a case to really see that I am the Croatian Mine Action Centre has saved five million kunas that then rebalanced all in some way into demining programs. That's what we haven't heard before, and then it's still an indication that this government is considering cutting costs while at the same time increasing operational performance.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81311	Replication response, Hrvoje Neklic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81312	Yes, my colleague Skuric, I agree with you. Well, here's what I'm going to do. So it might also be important to look at the public hearing that in 2002 the year was the year when the most funds were spent on humanitarian demining. And as for this one, it means this 249 million this year, that it is absolutely at the level of what has been spent in demining and previous years.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81313	We're continuing the club debate. And on behalf of the HDZ club, the esteemed Josip Djakic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81314	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. So the report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and the funds spent today before us will support the Croatian Democratic Community club but with the remarks we will show through this debate. Well, as the preliminary data suggest, during 2013 in the Republic of Croatia, a total demining area of 32.34 km2 was reduced by 39.56 km2. The city of Karlovac, the municipality of Antunovac, Čacinci, Poličnik, Škabrnja, Starigrad, Sveti Filip and Jakov should be separated from the area fully demined in 2013. In the structure of demining areas, the largest share has agricultural surfaces, 56.2%, forest areas with 34.6%, and maquis, a 9.1% cross-section. Mungos demining d.o.o. with a 12% stake, Researcher d.o.o. with a share of 7.7% and Doking demining d.o.o. 7.3%. And then they stayed. During the reporting period, there was only one mine accident in which a civilian was injured more easily, continuing to reduce the number of mine victims in the Republic of Croatia. It should also be provided with information that it has been in the period since '91. by 2013 there were 1353 mine incidents with 1976 victims of 510 fatalities. 245 million kuna was spent in 2013 from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. 41 million kuna is financed by legal persons, investors such as Croatian Forests, Croatian Railways Infrastructure, Croatian Water, Croatian Roads etc. Nine.4 million kunas were collected by donations. 23.3 million kuna has been implemented through EU funding projects, and some projects have been demined without compensation. The average demining price in 2013 was 7.69 kuna per metre square with VAT. The 2009 National Mine Action Programme planned a total reduction in mine suspected space in the Republic of Croatia by 139.5km. But for that it was necessary to provide 572.5 million kuna as we have seen is not secured. The programme identified a demining area of 72.2 km, but since the available funding in 2013 amounted to 249 million kuna, which was more than twice as much as the set programme for the implementation of part of the programme in 2013 and which was related to demining was not, of course, possible to implement the plan in the size of the national programme. This report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and spent financial resources for 2013 compared to the previous years may be said to have some success in this area but not completely and far from what is planned. Even with the eternal problem of the chronic lack of financial resources, which represents a huge obstacle to achieving the objective of exceptional national importance, which was to live and work in Croatia without mines, but the planned sub-targets that were drawn with financial resources have been achieved in some way and we are looking at this part with approval. It is especially noteworthy that during 2013 there was only 1 incident in which a civilian was killed with minor bodily injuries and that is what we can happily say that here it is not until this year we have a situation with a mortal and one with serious consequences. Compared to 92 accidents in '98. This year this data reveals that Croatian pyrotechnicians are extremely professional in their work, that citizens living in polluted mines are well educated and aware of the dangers of life with mines and that the entire demining system works somewhat well. Here we also need to mention the reorganisation that we have heard has led to significant savings, some argue that it has led to the collapse of the system that we cannot believe but here are the savings that are aimed at further demining 700 thousand square meters of mine areas. The report also points out that after the reorganisation of CROMAC pyrotechnics began to systematically carry out technical reports already in 2013 to obtain first results. Therefore, when we talk about demining the fact that the Republic of Croatia has an enormous wealth in human resources and expertise, we will put emphasis on pyrotechnics at the HDZ Club in this debate. In 2013 it is an extremely important year for pyrotechnicians. We remind you that in the HDZ Club in the 2011 Report debate, we have warned of problems that pyrotechnicians must deal with daily by protesting pyrotechnics for poor status, low labour prices, poor wages. In 2013, pyrotechnicians protested again. The 13-day strike resulted in the signing of a collective contract for CROMAC officials and subsistences with all material rights in line with material rights in other public services. But pyrotechnicians, these people who literally clean Croatia from mines and on whose work and foundations this report continues their fight. Namely, this time they pointed to the mutual struggle between employers involved in demining. Fight's for business, of course. Which results in the demining price collapse. So greed also plays a big role here and directly destroys the top quality expertise that should be a Croatian export product and brand. This report points to a great foreign interest in the Croatian mine action system to be taken into account when tolerating unscrupulous employers dealing with demining. Pyrotechnics are a special group of people who, like Croatian defenders, have a special way of life. Here and now, in this disaster that struck Slavonia, pyrotechnicians have made themselves available to the competent services that handle rescue actions, endangering the population in order to resupply the mined flooded areas without any compensation. About 2 months ago, the President of the Republic was awarded post-mortem pyrotechnics, 36 of them, by order of Peter Zrinski and Fran Krsta Frankopan with a golded player as an honorary sign of the eternal memory of those killed in the humanitarian demining of the Republic of Croatia after the end of the war. After that, however, the state’s concern about the families of the dead pyrotechnicians absolutely ceases. It is enough to mention the case of the family of the decorated Franjo Cerancević, who left behind his wife and four children, but today these children are not only unable to find a job but are exposed to shagging and demeaning by state institutions who are looking for help in finding a job. That was clearly stated in HTV shows, and it was written by pyrotechnics on their facesbook pages. Finally, the report also highlights the need for the adoption of the Anti-minal Act and of sub-legislative acts which would cover all components of mine action, i.e. those activities which have not or have not been sufficiently regulated by the existing law. The law is also needed to comply with the new achievements of international standards of mine action, especially those relating to carrying out a technical test, in which our pyrotechnicians have already shown significant results and the possibility of identifying the non-pollution of mine suspected areas. It is expected that this bill will soon be in the parliamentary procedure because even the draft law could not have been drafted without the pyrotechnics and their professional contributions. The realisation of the national programme is half as small as planned. The main cause of this is the lack of financial resources for demining. With current capacity available, it is possible to demine 50 to 55km of square terrain in the Republic of Croatia annually as we see in the report. But if this funding trend continues, the mine action programme will not be able to be implemented and will have to be accessed and the international community will have to be informed of it. Current capacities that are engaged through 36 demining companies clearly indicate that we have capacity, we have people, 615 pyrotechnics, 63 demining machines, 20 mine detection dogs, 670 meters... detectors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Everything tells us that we have everything and professional, and technically equipped people who can demining Croatia so that it in the further sequence and economically strengthens the function of all those spaces that are. Instead of buying expensive cars, it was meant to invest in demining Croatian areas. The HDZ Club will support this report with these remarks that we have put on Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81315	We're moving on to replicas. First, the esteemed Marijan Škvarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81316	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow, in your debate you pointed out an important allegation, which is, there I agree that the work of a pyrotechnician absolutely is not simple, indeed every day going to the minefield is, are complicated by uncertainty. And you said the finding that, that's basically for all these legal entities, the 33 that they are, is practically a fight for work. But just on the basis of that part that the fight for the job, what has been done so far according to the 2013 report, that the plan has been implemented with 105% and that nearly 550 million kuna has been paid in full. And when you define it and you see it, then you know how you prepare for the market, if you know the plan ahead of you, then you define the number of people according to that plan, secure your equipment, your machines and everything else. And you can make a good offer, a quality offer that then won't be below any price, what they were even 3 kuna per metre square, unfortunately, and there were also 30 kuna. And on that part when you record at the end of the year, then you can see that you've done a good job, community service, after all, and your company, that's where the company made the profit. Are you paying people, and there are people who have guarantees to go on. So when we talk about fighting for a job like this, it's the right way for people to plan, and while planning, the effects are maximum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81317	The reply to the replica, Honored Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81318	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well fellow Skvarić, actually you don't really want to consider what he is and what he isn't. In particular, the national plan provides for the extent to which demining was to take place in 2013. Since more than twice the budget-planned funds are, what you're saying is that 100 out of 15 or 18% is done more than planned. It's planned, a redefined plan has been made which is more than twice smaller shown in kunas. We are planning 582.5 million kuna, and it was achieved in the state budget of 249 million kuna. And then on the basis of these planned funds, a plan was being made to how much will be realized. We are pleased, especially me in the county of Virovitsk-Podravska that was cleared from mines. But another 10 counties have mine suspected spaces that need to be provided with funds. In order to ensure that the funds are provided, they will fertilise multiplely what is invested. Why? Because the economic effects will show that they are both agricultural, forest and power grids and everything put into operation, thus contributing to both economic recovery and progress. That's what I'm talking about, all you have to do is listen.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81319	Second replica of the esteemed Tinker Millas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81320	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Djakic, you said in your debate that the HDZ Club would support this report, I agree. The report is correct and clear, but I have to be honest for a long time, or the logic of reporting is not very clear. I do not understand why the director of the Croatian Mine Action Centre is being prevented from being the one who submits the report? Therefore, he who is directly responsible for the functioning of the most important part in Croatia that deals with demining. I think that the debate would then be more direct, clearer, more concrete, so that some of the CROMAC's responsibilities and coordination could be clearer, let's say, between the demining offices, I don't know the CROMAC council. I know it's legal, but I think it's a bad law, that he doesn't have logic and that he needs to be changed. With deep respect to the Deputy Minister, I think that they, therefore, imagine what it would look like instead of the director of Croatian Radio Television, the Deputy Minister of Culture submits a report on HRT's work. We'll say it's a public service, but the same way before a contract is signed with the government, they can't make any plans either. Well, I think maybe we should all think about it together. Comrade Djakic, I don't know what you think this practice may be changed by legislation, by amending the law, and then by those who are directly, who are those who are or are invited to conduct the demining process and report it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81321	What Josip Djakic thinks about it will be heard in response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81322	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well fellow Milas, yes, perhaps it would be good for those involved directly, who are directly involved, who implement the plan and the programme to be able to clearly tell what is going on, why and how. But we heard from fellow Vuksic that there are doubts about co-ownership in companies, greed for work, that there are a number of things that absolutely stand out. If it is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior, so let it be submitted, it is not important who submits the report only that the report should be correct things which are visible, clear and loud in the possibilities they are. I was going to say that the arrogant spending of money, the dictation of contracts without competition or anything else should be sanctioned from the ministry or checked to the Ministry of the Interior, as well as sanctioned by the State's Attorney's Office or some other legal regulations that are known to the Republic of Croatia. I believe that those who are at the Croatian Mine Action Centre are best aware of how jobs are going, whether these remarks we heard from colleagues Vuksic are true.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81323	The third line is the esteemed Hrvoje Nekic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81324	Yes, colleague Djakic. I agree with you that the funds spent on demining must be bigger and that they're never really enough, enough as it is... to always be better. However, I would remind you of one fact, which is the fact that in the last year where Croatia is in recession 2013 the demining was spent 249 million kuna. Now let me go back to 2006 when the state of the State budget was far better. Then 257 million kunas were spent, so if we compare 2006 and 2013, only 8 million kunas more given the state of the budget then and the state of the budget now. Well, here, try it on for me if you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81325	The replica corresponds to Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81326	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In 2006, 25 to 30 million were lower, billions were lower, but the same funds were secured. Well, I mean, that's, uh, that's, uh, that's, uh, that's, uh, that's, uh, that's, uh, that's, that's, uh, that's, uh, that's, uh, that's, uh, that's, uh, that's, uh, that's, uh, that's, uh, that's... that's... that's, uh, that's, uh, that's, uh, that's, uh, that's, uh, uh, fellow Shucker's helping out with that, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's not a secret, uh, it's not a secret, uh, uh, uh, it's not a secret, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, well, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, well, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, well, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, However, I would like to say that there are things that are more important than what they have already seen themselves that are not working properly and that are actually condemned from the people. Buy new cars in a crisis, not provide enough funds for humanitarian demining. So I'd say that the contacts with the international community, the programmes and the plans, that the donations, that... or some conferences of the donor fruited to fill in what was missing, I'd say, "I'm taking off my hat." And in the government's office headed by Mrs. Pleština, who has challenged me many times in her presentations when she's put the enemy soldiers, the disabled, in fact with the Cyrillic at one symposium, but here, and it's happened over the past time, and I've characterized it as no good, although I respect anyone who's been killed in the war, no matter what side. It could have been done a lot more with international funding with a donor conference that was made for other countries, and... I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81327	The last line is expressed by the esteemed Sunflower Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81328	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, Djakic, 600 square kilometers, is still estimated to be mine suspected areas of over 80 cities in nearly 12 counties. So we're talking about 70 grand that we should put into operation, so why not if we're talking about 600 square kilometers in some economic function, a agricultural function, whatever we want to call it. I'm going to remind you of one more scandalous number, and that's when the public procurement for smartphones and other telephony was combined, about 40 million kunas, and now I'm going to ask, some officials have been looking for, were said, phones sensitive to touch, so I don't know why people who live in mine suspected areas haven't been properly treated. You mentioned the same way that we will not be in the realisation of the National Mine Action Programme until 2019, which has been adopted since 2009, but we are also obliged to demine the territory of the Republic of Croatia by 2019. 350 million euros, approximately the estimates we need for this, so now if we put that in the context of the funds that are allocated from the State budget and in the context of some donations, we can make it very easy to calculate that we will not respect in this way either the National Programme that we have brought or what we have signed in accordance with... the Convention. I think we're going to be in a great deal of trouble and I agree with you that we need the Mine Action Act, and of course I'll say the rest in my individual debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81329	The line corresponds to the esteemed Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81330	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yes, my fellow Members, you have well concluded that... the Convention has its own standards and we have committed ourselves to the National Plan that we will stand out annually in order to clear Croatia from mines by 2019. If we've taken all the steps we need, let's just say we're from a program funded by the NGO sector that... Croatia in the majority excluded 30% of the funds and whether in demining would surely do much more on this plan. If we hadn't created a four-star hotel symposium, with five stars, maybe a few more miles of square would have done more clean space. As well as looking for phones and cars, in a number of things there are opportunities where to find funds or to reasonably give up parts of the funds. If the Ministry of Defence has now approved through its programme that 20% of the funds can go to flooded areas and the victims, then the national programme for the non-governmental sector can be set aside 30% for humanitarian demining, and... Croatia and some associations that certainly may not deserve as much money as we see through the budget. There's a way, there's a possibility we just need to take advantage of them. I would like to make one donor conference at Croatia's level as it was made for Serbia for BiH to raise a good part of the funds so that all MPs, as we participated in the floods, are involved in helping this humanitarian demining of Croatia so that all citizens can live and walk freely and safely.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81331	The position of Club Jadranka Kosor and HGS will be presented by a respected representative of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81332	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy, Representative, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am just before my colleague Grubisic, who is now gone, what will be the position of the club and how he will speak, so I said a little commendation and a little remarks. But certainly our club will accept this report primarily because of the fact that the report is talking about one big, hard and ungrateful job, and I think that all the efforts of all those who are working on this trail should be supported in some way by many of the questions raised when reading this report. There's a report and illogicality, so I'd dare say some sort of confusion as if some parts of the report had been taken out after it was made up, so there's some imbalances. Let's say the question of what is said at the very beginning, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the session of 18 July 2013 brought a plan for 2013. So the demining plan for 2013 was only adopted by the government on 18 July. It is also unusual that at the beginning of the debate, Mr Radjanovic criticised the lack of funds, so he criticised government representatives who failed to allocate sufficient funds according to the 2009 demining programme. This is unusual because, of course, Mr. Radjenović is a member of the ruling majority who always brings the budget and then has to provide the funds that are necessary. So this shows that the government, or representatives of the ruling majority, is very aware that this job can be difficult if you have planned for this year 572 million in 2009 and 249 million kunas are secured and 23 million kunas are less than were provided last year. And this report accurately and in detail states that these are twice as much funds as those that should have been secured. It's so interesting, and I'd say and I'd dare say some sort of bizarreness. Of course, when you look at the 2009 humanitarian demining programme and the resources planned every year and when you compare them with the RH budgets for each of these years and when you look a little into the past and when you look at all the rebalancing and efforts to secure additional or necessary resources, then you can see that it has been a very, very difficult job for each government so far. So, of course, we understand the difficulties that the government has faced in view of the high deficit, given the problems in drawing up a budget that is largely fixed. However, this must lead us to some important points of view of the Croatian Parliament at the end of this debate. So is it necessary to change and revise the 2009 programme? It seems that, therefore, to bring it into line with the opportunities of an EU member state and which can certainly, with further efforts, withdraw additional funds related to this problem, because as far as I know, we are the only EU member state of the 28 Member States who are still struggling with the problem of mines in the 21st century that will not solve this problem until 2019 as planned. And when will it be? You don't know. The fact that we are a tourist country and we are trying to take the best from tourism, to try to increase these famous 7 billion kunas as much as possible from year to year but the fact is that we are not doing it. It is fortunate to learn about the current situation and what a map of mine suspected surfaces looks like that is not known enough or not to be talked about because a country that wants to be a top tourist destination must not have a single meter of mined area. Nevertheless, great efforts so far have been made to demining more than 4 billion kunas. and now we come up with all that colleagues have listed, so the lack of funds, twice as much funding, we have in this report, and we have data that the plan has been transferred by 18.8% and that it is 6% more demining than it has been in the past year means 2012. These are the illogicalities and these are the little absurdities that are descending in this report. So we have a transfer and we don't actually have it, we actually have a subroutine, we have more resources but we don't actually have much less resources than we should have. However, what I think should be highlighted and commended in this debate is an example for the government as well as for all of us, for all of us, the state bodies is an example of savings in the Croatian Mine Action Centre itself. So by reorganising and reducing the number of leading positions and structural units. What we talk about so much, but few who are capable and willing to do so. Savings of more than 5 million and 300 thousand kuna have been made. And those funds have been rerouted for demining. So, wages and everything that follows many leading positions are focused on 700 thousand square meters of mined area, mined surfaces and this area is successfully demining. So that should really be pointed out, that should be commended. This is why I join all those who have proposed, and this should be some conclusion for the future that indeed in the future about this report, which is mainly about the work of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, which should coordinate all jobs in this area to hear representatives of the Croatian Mine Action Centre. The structure of the demining area is the same thing that needs to be read carefully in this report, so it is the largest part of the agricultural area. And as I recall in the demining program, actually, that area was supposed to be finished, that is, this job was supposed to be done right this year, so it would be good to hear from the centre's representatives what is predicted, or how it is planned to work already in the next year even though we actually had no data for 2014. This is one of the problems of the reports at all, but the reports on the demining business I think is particularly large because the time of the 2015 budget will soon come and we will not have the right information as to how this job was done in 2014. So what next? As I said, the programme should be revised, I suggest that the Government seriously consider the 2009 programme to be revised, better and better to have than actually at this moment a document that is not in force. So it's a document that's no longer in force because the document doesn't follow, or reality doesn't monitor money, or plans, or demining projects for the past year, for the previous year, but it's likely to be so for 2014 and 2015. Our proposal is also to concentrate everything in one place. This report is not visible and should be accompanied by some results on the work of the Mine Action Office. So our proposal is to concentrate everything on one spot by example on those more than 5 million and 300 thousand kunas that the Croatian Mine Action Centre itself managed to save because it abolished some leading places, because it was reconstructed and even more than 5 million and 300 thousand kunas, which is a great amount of money aimed at demining. Let's see if it can be done by combining everything in the system that shows a part of that mosaic and we don't actually see the effects of that. I will not mention symposia, but I will just advocate that we are rational and that anyone who does any work with it gets some money from the state budget that before the Croatian Parliament has to subscribe information about what the money is aimed at, how it is spent and what the results are. Finally, of course, there should be another word as usual, but unfortunately it is only once a year when we discuss these reports of pyrotechnics. I'm going to mention something today that I've been hanging out and working in different positions in the executive government working with pyrotechnics, their unions, trying to solve some of the problems I've learned, it's something that I find most impressive and best-cases all the weight and the cross of that job itself. So what I found out from them is that at 13 o'clock every day while the pyrotechnics work, you can't get on the phone, you get no pyrotechnics on your phone. Why? Because at 13 hours they usually call their homes, their families, and speak, or convey important news, we are alive, we are healthy, and everything is fine. And at the very end of this report should, of course, be pointed out that here in 2013, no one died, no one was badly killed and that the number of victims, wounded, killed was reduced year by year, and that is something that should be pointed out. So we'll accept the report, but we're asking the government to seriously consider the proposals we made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81333	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, honourable Boro Grubisic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81334	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will repeat this sentence that my colleague said before me that we will accept this report with certain objections and certain suggestions that we will make in this debate. So I start with page 3, so from the beginning where it says the 2013 plan set the following targets and then says the reduction of the mine suspected territory of the Republic of Croatia by 68.1 km2. Then the total removal of mine risk from Virovitica-Podravska County was done, done, with one observation that some here spoke to the Municipality of Čacinci as Cačani but it is not the Cacans but the Cachins, so that those before me know that there is a Čacinci municipality, not the Cacans. Creating conditions for the complete removal of mine risk from Dubrovnik-Neretva County that extended to the first quarter of 2014 made, done, demining 6 km2 orans etc. Here in this first part, therefore, the basic tasks of the humanitarian demining plan for 2013 of the units in which the proposal for this report is expressed exclusively in km2. If we turn the page after that we have everything in terms of m2, somewhere and in hectares, when we talk about agriculture. Well, I'd like to ask in the future to express ourselves either in km2 or in meters. So the plan is expressed in km2, and then after that we have immediately on page 4 a reduction of mine suspected area in 2013 demining 32 million 343 thousand 124 and general reconnaissance 39, let's go 40 million m2. What's this, is that, I don't believe it's some sort of a deception of an opponent and then plans are done in km2, and in order to show great activity or large areas that are demining or free of suspicion that mine suspected areas are in m2. So that's one thing. Someone here has already talked about that so-called. a general survey, which removes suspicion of mine polluted areas in a number of 40 million m2 or actually 40 km2. We know that a million m2 is one km2. So the general reconnaissance, even though this methodology or general reconnaissance technology doesn't say much here, was the observation that it didn't even enter the minefield so that some of these general reconnaissances were written off from mine suspected areas. One of my colleagues before me talked about it. I don't want to be so mean as to say that it didn't even enter the minefield to see or mine suspected area to see it, but maybe we'll get an explanation from the deputy minister or assistant, a colleague here to find out how this general reconnaissance was removed. It's like when they take you off HZZ and there's no more 350,000 than 330,000 unemployed, they take it off the bureau as they say, shut it down. When we talk about the implementation of demining operations in 2013 then we see that it is by county to say the biggest switch let's say in Osijek-Baranja County, Sisak-Moslavina, Sibenik-Kninska, Vukovar-Srijem and Brod-Posavia. Ship-Posavia County and Vukovar-Srijem County are scheduled to be completely freed from mines and minefields in 2014. So to be completely free from mines and mine suspected areas of the two counties in the east of our country. When we look at the county from which I come, Brod-Posavina, then we see where the deminings were done and it would be good if, along with this report on one map, we get what someone here has already said, the remaining areas which are also those that were deleted from mine suspected areas during 2013 or demined. That would be good, and by county, if we had one drawing, a chart, however you want, where we would actually see the parliamentary representatives that we still have. Because we know that there are 600 km2 left for demining, but it wouldn't be bad for the county itself or for the beginning of 2002 and what's left today. It may also be effective for MPs and citizens to know how much work has been done in these 11-12 years and what CROMAC has done, what they have done to the deminers of any company or Croatian army in their difficult, dangerous business. Here are the statistics, thank God we only have one this year, and this is where the injured person writes, although the category of people who are injured doesn't exist. There are only minor injuries and severe injuries or fatal injuries. So there's no easier injury, that's some expression that doesn't exist in court-medical practice. So an easy, severe and fatal injury can only be, and I'm asking it to be repaired in some kind of next report. In Brod-Posavina County, so I started this, so I broke up a bit, so the areas were demined south of the A3 highway, then part of the forest area Pošnik which is still active and part of the area in the Municipality of Gornji Bogićevci and in Okucani Municipality, north of Okučana. So by contacting the Mayor of Brod-Posavina County today he also expressed his satisfaction with the work of the Croatian Mine Action Centre in the area of Brod-Posavina County and said that there is still what has to be done most likely this year so that the Brod-Posavina County along with Vukovar-Srijemski would be completely demining and without mine suspected areas which would be, therefore, excellent and very good. When I talk about the financing of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, the Croatian Mine Action Office then I must point out that, regardless of the savings that are highlighted here by some speakers, the total demining was spent or planned around 250 million kuna, with the fact that for the management and administration at the position I believe the A672032 budget provides 39 and 34 million kuna. So when we talk, it's about 14%. 14% of the funds provided for these purposes, these truly human purposes of cleaning Croatia from mines were spent on managing the administration. If we were to call for example, let me say a similar position for the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and Health of the Republic of Croatia, then we would also see that for example the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, its costs are 2.3% of the total amount allocated to the health care of the Republic of Croatia. It seems to me that this rate of 14% for management and administration is still a lot. Let's compare those two categories even though it might exist. And do you know how many employees there are at the Croatian Health Insurance Institute? And they spend only 2 to 3% of the total money, everything else goes for the health care of the Republic of Croatia. Here to demining 14% spends administration and management of the centre and the Office of Mine Action. I think it is too much and that regardless of the savings that have been made and which are recorded and which are here called and even praised can be managed with less resources and administered by demining in the Republic of Croatia in order to remain even more money for those direct demining activities. And not just that. We suggest that the government and representatives of the government and all others listen here, that the demining VAT be reduced as it fell in one of these activities, as it fell in tourism first to 13% and 15%. Let's cut from 25 to 15%. By doing so, the disbursement would be another 30 million kuna higher for demining or annuate this amount of money for managing the administration. It would actually be erased because more than 30 million kunas would be saved. Why do I say that? The effects of such a reduction in VAT would not only be on saving from the 250 million kuna and increasing the amount of demining financing, but also on donors willing to give, financing demining would be more satisfying. Because if they give their demining donation, they don't like it when they hear 25% go to VAT. And there are donations, donations. Here is a donor in the carlovakia county who reported directly to the carlovakia county area when he heard that he would pay 25% of the funds he donated to VAT. I don't want to, I won't finance it, and he was willing to give me money. I'm not gonna name the source and what the donor house was, but that's it. I have reliable data. So, the rest of us in the Republic of Croatia still demining 600 square kilometers, and according to plan and programme, we should be a land without mines by 2019, which, according to this, is not possible to implement in terms of schedule and planning. It's impossible to mine 600 square miles in another five years. And it is quite certain that this deadline will be extended, and in particular because the financial resources from year to year in view of the crisis, given all circumstances are getting smaller and smaller. That is why I appeal that both these funds for administration and management should be rerouted more towards direct demining work. Because if, as someone here said, the President's Office is spending 43 million kunas, the entire Parliament, all MPs and administration 140 and some other million kunas, then one office with 34 million kuna is really a lot. A lot of resources, too much resources. And it just can't get stuck without getting stuck in an eye like this and this kind of amount. About the benefit of the Croatian state from demining surfaces someone was talking about orans here. Unfortunately, and those who have never even been mined are a little abandoned. But what is important is that in communication infrastructure, so from highways to Croatian railways, HEP, Croatian forests there is interest and they donate and participate in their demining funds. Indeed here in Brod-Posavina County just to mention the great forest surface of the forest dust. And then let's not talk about Papuk National Park up in Požega-Slavonska and part of Virovitica-Podravska County where there are vast forest spaces, not to say the jungles, perhaps the remains of the last rain forest in our area. So there's an economic interest and it's good that these state-owned companies of ours are here now either to commend or to read them participate in funds intended for demining. Now, unfortunately, I say a large part goes to both administration and administrative management so that the effects are smaller. A presentation of the financing of demining businesses of legal persons per year, and we see that since 2002 it has been on the chart Do you two count me for a minute like basketball or something? [[Invader Zgrebec: Bring your colleague to the site of debate.]] Yeah. [[No, no, like everyone else.]] So, since 2002, when there were 73 million kunas, legal entities have donated, and this year only 41 million kuna. Minimum amount since 2002. And that's what's significant and signifying. Here, we will vote in favour of the report, but we ask that our remarks be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81335	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. She's a colleague of the Sun Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81336	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So right now, according to the available data, 800,000 people live in mine suspected areas, or over 2,000 people have suffered unfortunately from mines. Huge agricultural forest resources are untapped, mostly in the most passive regions in the Republic of Croatia. The pyrotechnicians are doing an extremely demanding and difficult job. And my colleague is a pyrotechnician and says every morning at 5 o'clock he puts more than 15 kilos of equipment he goes to demining with. For quality demining according to their data and according to what is considered a quality demining territory is about 100 squares per day. According to some data, more than 100 squares are demining daily pyrotechnicians and sometimes question the quality of demining that we would never want to do. It is equally questionable whether all the obligations they have, i.e. employers to them, are fulfilled or whether that work is respected on weekends in accordance with all the laws. I have already looked back on how the demining funds have been reduced and that we will not realize the programme by 2019 with this dynamic. The plan failed the national programme by almost 70km square. The main reason of course undermining the plan is insufficient financial resources and we all agreed to this in the debate. In part, we too must consider ourselves responsible for this because as a Croatian Parliament, we voted for it. There is also a further decline in the investment of state-owned demining companies which started in 2012 because in 2011, state-owned companies and other investors invested more than 90 million kunas in demining. In 2012, it fell to 69 million kuna, and in 2013, it was only 41 million kuna. I will touch that segment that falls under Croatia's forests because Croatian forests rule most of the mine suspected area. I must say that unfortunately in 2012 and 2013, Croatian forests halved the investment in demining, but here we immediately have to pull the parallel happened by reducing the parafiscal burdens that we naturally wanted to help the economy, but on the one hand we went to the economy, and on the other hand we were in a situation where these funds were also so significantly reduced. The Government of the Republic of Croatia in early 2012 also formed a special Office for Mine Action whose justification I hope we will only be able to see about it in full terms. They have shown that they may not be the most adequate way, or we will see how it will be, we have withdrawn funds from the EU, we have had pre-accession funds now we will see how much we can see these funds... /Zgrebec upadica: We will only stop for a moment in order to welcome our guests at the diplomat gallery, the delegation of the Group of former representatives of the National Assembly of the Republic of France. Welcome! Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. [[Applause.]] [[Strebec: Here are your colleagues.]] Here, welcome to our guests. I can immediately withdraw the parallel and France was one of the countries that helped Croatia demining, so here we can in some ways recommend ourselves for further assistance if possible. To what I said, therefore, 25 million kuna was withdrawn from the EU funds in 2013, and a major deviation from the reduction of mine suspected areas compared to the national programme began in 2012. Therefore, if we want to respect international conventions and the national programme, additional demining means should be provided in haste. Let me just remind you that this trend of reductions was already in the first budget and the planning of the first budget of the ruling coalition. And that just then the HDZ club went to the amendment not to, but, of course, our amendment was not accepted. That out of the current nearly 600 km of square mine suspected areas more than 65% of waste in forests and forest land, the Government may still have to in some way impose on Croatian forests or find a model to allocate more demining funds. You may see that part of the tax on telecommunications services is directed precisely into demining or in those purposes or, of course, see if some of the excise duties can be directed to implement this plan. I will not, of course, once again emphasize everything we have said that can be achieved from European funds. The Croatian Mine Action Centre is quite operational, I do not know to what extent it cooperates with the Government's office I believe that, but perhaps better communication between these two segments that actually have the same ingenuity. We should see how you can improve the image of non-minor mine suspected areas in the Republic of Croatia. Six square kilometers of mine is suspicious in the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia has the necessary people, it has trained personnel, but we always go back to the beginning of the story in order to ensure people's work we must have the means to do so. More than 300 thousand unemployed in the Republic of Croatia, and last year a number of pyrotechnicians whose companies were closed because of the inability to operate in mine suspected areas were unfortunately no longer able to survive. The Law on Mine Action should in some way support its adoption and all that is said in some way by Djakić, and not only that, because demining every day is done in an increasingly modern way and we should include all the novels that are being used in the world in order to make mine suspected areas as high as possible and demining faster. 350 million euros, so we need it according to the estimates in order to get to 2019. Croatia cleaned from mines. Of course, in 350 million euros, there is no cost of human life. So that's what we always have to think first when we talk about mine suspected areas, we talk about human lives, we talk about people who live there, we talk about areas that we could use for agricultural, economic, any industrial activity. So that's what we have to look at as one rounded whole, not only to demining that area, but to put it into some economic function as soon as possible because it's actually a task other than protecting people's lives and people who live there. The mine action programme, unfortunately, that is, its realization has been questioned in this way, and I think we should all seriously consider how we can help. And there were some ideas here today, I'm afraid that only ad hoc actions can't do that, but we all have to act together to ensure that people in these areas have a safe life and to put it into some future economic function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81337	Thank you. Goran Beus Richembergh, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81338	My colleague Glavak, in your presentation, you have stated among other things that the level of investment by legal persons in demining seems to me in a three-year period. There is no doubt that this trend will continue. Namely, the logic of things is and it should not be respected by the Croatian Mine Action Centre, but rather by the opposite. The logic is that these funds will be constantly reduced because, according to the priority lists, what was most urgent and what should have gone into economic function has already been demined. And therefore, from year to year, such a number of cases are reduced by healthy logic. Namely, companies that have been demining the country, or area, should have dealt with it in years behind us. So it should not be respected by the Croatian Mine Action Centre, but even more notice that this trend is good and that it will continue, and certainly commend between the other and international contacts of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, which is now becoming a respectable institution whose experience is people and everything they have acquired in recent years, which makes them a very relevant institution in world circles and a desirable partner for cooperation in many other countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81339	Sunny Head, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81340	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Beus, you didn't understand me or you didn't hear me, I wasn't talking about foreign investment, I was talking about Croatian forests first. I was talking about Croatian forests, their financial opportunities, and that's why the funds were cut. Of course the role of the Croatian Mine Action Centre is exactly what you said. It's their job, of course. We can only conclude that the report is neatly done, that the Croatian Mine Action Centre is doing its job and of course it is one of their roles to have international contacts. I think it's perfectly normal, just as normal that we're doing our job and we don't need it, and neither are we being praised for it, and just as it is for the government's job to do their part of the job, so that nobody praises and we know why we don't praise it. So, the Croatian Mine Action Centre must work on a platform that is regulated by law, but it must also find the mechanisms more strongly and fight for sufficient funding to implement our own national programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81341	Vice President Nenad Stazic, replica. Vice President Nenad Stazic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81343	You're complaining to the government that she didn't do enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81344	My colleagues and colleagues would like to ask for some silence so that we can bring this debate to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81345	So you're complaining to the government that she didn't do enough, you're saying she should have done more. There's a plan that's over 18% first. And now you say you should have done even more. With less resources than planned, more has been made. Well, as far as I'm concerned, this government needs to be commended, not attacked. But I'll tell you one more thing, I'm surprised it's you who's coming from your club. So that, if it hadn't been for FIMI Media and that money had been put into demining, the tunnels had not been painted several times that that money had gone into demining, that the roads had not been built at ten times the price of the Racan era. There would be no more mines in Croatia today, everything would be cleaned up. And now you're attacking a government that works, just you. Well, look, it's like I'm stealing your wallet so I can attack you so you don't pay your bills, because you have nothing to pay. Let me pour water on you and attack you for being wet. A little bit in this debate should bring in a little logic and a little more dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81346	Replication response, Sun Head. Please, once again, you can enter the hall in silence.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81347	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I think it's really declassified to go back to all of this. And even if it's from you, it's too much. So I'll just remind you of the numbers. You weren't here in the entire debate, so maybe you didn't hear, so the plan failed the national program by almost 70km square, which is what we're talking about, fellow Stazic. When you say that we are criticising the government's work, of course it is the government that proposes the budget, you are the majority that adopted that budget and the fact is that the budget was reduced funds for this particular purpose that we are talking about. When you want to pull a parallel with some numbers, then I just want to remind you of the numbers that the cars cost, how much the smartphones cost, so we can take this competition in just one other direction. My intention was, like all colleagues who debated, not to compete politically and to cast mud, but to warn NATO that people live in mine dubious areas. That we want to turn these mine suspected areas into quality land in which someone will be able to invest. So if we want to talk about arguments, we can do it this way, so please don't invite anyone else to courtesy unless that's all you're suggesting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81348	And colleague Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81349	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's a colleague and a colleague, and in this individual debate, we're going to make it clear why the national plan went down by half. The national plan fell by more than half because 6 months in 2013, and in this report it did not stand, the government was late to deliver a plan for 2013. So 6 months for 2013 the plan was delayed and it was only brought in at its 104th session, 6 months late. Well, of course there can't be 572 million kunas secured in 6 months, since the law defines how many pyrotechnics can demine squares in one day. And he cannot and must no longer participate in this work. When the government was six months behind and didn't secure the money, of course there was no demining. Well, I mean, it's clear to the sparrows on the branch. And the government only acted when there was an accident in the military, i.e. in a former warehouse in Padjana, when Joint Chief Marko Odzak was killed, and two of his fellow military pyrotechnics were wounded. At its 104th session, the government presented a humanitarian demining plan for 2013. These two events do not actually have any common direct links, but it is clear, however, that this was done only after the event. And he was late for a mine action plan in 2013, he was six months late. Imagine, six months and then of course he fell from 572 million to 249 million kuna. And now who's smart enough to say something else is wrong with that? No, it's pure negligence, recklessness, there's not a single tape of seriousness in the work of those who are responsible. And surely this kind of event that happened caused the adoption of plans and programs. I would also like to say about, in the integral part of the demining plan, is the plan, the humanitarian demining, the demining plan of military facilities. I beg you, grant me the President's peace so I can speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81350	Please let my colleague Djakic speak, hear him and film him. Please, nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81351	So, an integral part of the humanitarian demining plan is also the demining of military facilities. The humanitarian demining plan for the military facilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for 2013, was correctly spoken of by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the deputy said. The demining is carried out by the pioneer battle, the engineering regiments of the Croatian Land Army and the plan for this year, i.e. In 2013, 690 thousand square meters of mine suspected space in military Petrinja is planned to be demined at the military polygon in Slunj, and military warehouse complexes in Petrinja, Gospić, Dvor na Uni. The plan also included the resolution of the consequences of the fire in the military storage complex... in Knin and also the plan envisioned technical inspection and the production of project documentation for the demining of the Cerovec military polygon, military barracks in Dugi Selo and Zemunik and military storage complex in... and Petrinja and financial resources were secured in the Ministry of Defence. So here, and the Croatian Army is doing everything it can through its capacities to ensure that as safe and effective as possible the military facilities that function are 100% secure. What happens in humanitarian demining is the greed I spoke about on behalf of the club, so in 2013 we can notice that through competitions that... work for pyrotechnics prices, as I said in my presentation, were 7 kuna and 69 limes in December 2013. However, the offers that arrived in that same year 2013 from some of the 36 bidders in the Republic of Croatia were from 3.3 to 4.7 kuna, which absolutely cannot correspond to reality in order to properly, properly and properly do this very difficult and demanding job. Moreover, what I said was a safe way of doing such a job cannot be covered with 3.3 kuna, it is a dumping price, and I should have made sure that the procurement commission was to be rejected because the law clearly states how much a pyrotechnician can work and mine in one day square meters. Therefore, the public tender in this respect is hardly possible in any way if the law defines how much a pyrotechnician can do. The only thing that can reduce their labour price and put them in a position to be on some kind of minimum that by collective agreement today thanks God what their salary is monthly, when they work in the full month and what their wages are when they don't work, are all defined by collective agreement, and that's what's good. I would like to emphasise that much more can be done in the humanitarian demining and cleaning of Croatia, which is regulated by the plan until 2019. However, as I said, that citizens of the Republic of Croatia would be free to walk in all areas and in all positions, to process their country and to put it for a full purpose, it is necessary for those who, on many occasions, walk through the Republic of Croatia through various associations financed from the NGO sector with millions of kunas, should say a lot. It is better to reroute these funds to this humanitarian work so that Croatia is as secure and free from mine-explosive threats as possible, which are increasing every day, and even though the loss of last 2013 for which this report has been submitted was minimal with one of the minor injuries. In this year 2014, we already have dead and injured, and that is what worries us that even though there should be fewer and fewer such mine incidents still occur with such deadly consequences. We therefore believe that no government office that boastsly throws resources and organizes symposiums in five-star hotels, and there are state hotels and opportunities like in Brijuni could have been held in the residences of the government of the Republic of Croatia, could have been held in a police station in Rijeka, as well for 7 kunas, anything could have been done on Brijuni would have been much cheaper, much more modest, much more effective for those who needed it, and that is for companies to provide enough money to demining as much space as possible. I can say that the report is correctly written just missing those 250 million kunas with which the government was six months late.
ParlaMint-HR_2014-06-13-0.u81352	Thank you very much. We have concluded this discussion of the report. We'll vote when the conditions are met. A report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and the financial resources spent for 2013. The debate is closed. I am voting in accordance with the proposals of the working bodies the following conclusion: A report on the implementation of the humanitarian demining plan and the financial resources spent for 2013 is hereby adopted. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I note that the proposed conclusion was accepted by the majority of votes 88 for and 3 abstentions. This concludes the vote on the final points of the agenda, discussed, we decided. I schedule the course plenary session of the 13th session of the Croatian Assembly on Monday... What is it? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] A correction, a correction. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I find that the conclusion, the proposed conclusion, is accepted by most votes, 88 votes by and 3 votes against. Thank you very much for the correction. Let's finish today's session. On Monday, therefore, the 16th of this month, 9.30 a.m. resumes at the plenary session with the agenda item on a regular annual report by the Advocate General for 2013. Thank you very much. Have a nice weekend.
