ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e53	From 27 November to 2 December, an application for welfare leave has been made by the Central Party Group for the representation of Alf Ivar Samuelsen. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, is called to meet during the period of leave.3. Janne Sjelmo Nordås is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Alf Ivar Samuelsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e77	The President will propose the election of three presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Solvency Horne, Per Ove Width and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr. – Other proposals are not available, and Solvency Horne, Per Ove Width and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr are unanimously elected presidents of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e97	The majority has decided that within two years we will have twice as many women in Defense as today. Despite the fact that we have had several women defence ministers in recent years and now we also have a new female guard boss, it is still a long way to go until we have an equal defence. The target of 15 pst. is therefore to be achieved by 2008. It is agreed by a majority. But when we know that it's at the base of 7 pst. Girls in Defense today, there is every reason to ask questions about whether we can achieve this goal in two years' time. That is why it is important to have a debate on the very proportion of women in defence. Looking at history, the Stortinget decided in 1976 to give women access to command training, and in 1983 women were given the same opportunity to earn protection obligations as men. In the 1980s, the Stortinget adopted full occupational equality between men and women in the Defence. The law was in place. But it hasn't been enough. We got our first female fighter planes and Norway’s – and actually the world – first female submarine captain in the 1990s, but otherwise it has happened very little. The female proportion is still very low. There's a long way left for an equal defence here in the country. I believe that the defense is supposed to be an organization in the pact over time, an organization that more closely reflects the Norwegian community, which we know consists of about half girls and half boys. That's why the target is 15 pst. women in defense really too little ambitious. Several women in defence will also be involved in maintaining the legitimacy of the duty of protection in the people, and will be involved in strengthening the links between women and defence. In many other areas where there have been formerly man-dominated jobs, the proportion of girls has increased considerably over the past 20–30 years. For example, the police have managed to increase the proportion of women to 25 pst. That's good. We've got more female engineers, more girls working in the oil industry, etc. In the defense we have not succeeded as well, and we cannot settle for that. The Organisational Culture of Defence has to a large extent been developed by men with a background in men’s needs, attitudes and values. This has happened over a long time. Therefore, it has been shown that changing this ‘human culture’ has not been as easy. You can ask yourself if the defense today, 20 years after we introduced full equality in the organization, really wants a radical change. In fact, in many areas Norway has come much further than many other countries in terms of equality and representation in both the public and private sectors, while in defence we have come very short. I believe that there are many good reasons why the proportion of women in defence should and should be increased. The question is, why can't we recruit and keep more women in the defense? We need to find an answer to that! I think the challenge is complex, and there's probably no simple answer. If we are to succeed, we must have a set of measures both internally in defence and in society outside. But if we want to do this, we also have to think about making it easier for us to do it. It's about will and means. I believe that an increased proportion of women among those in need of protection and command will undoubtedly enrich the organisation, because women will be able to influence the structures, methods, training and not least attitudes in a good and normal social way. Something's happening. This year, after the Storting changed the protective duty law, all girls born in 1989 are offered a voluntary session. It's an important step in the right direction. The size has allowed the Swedish Defence Agency to use the same sources to reach current women as men, and this will be a suitable tool for recruiting women to the Defence. Questionnaires conducted by the Defence Department show that nearly half of these girls have been planning to ask. Then it is important that we now follow up, so that the girls will thrive, and that more people choose to remain after the end of the duty to protect. That's why we have to work to keep and further develop these girls. We must call on leaders with recruitment responsibilities to prioritise women, and provide career opportunities where women see that it is possible to seek top positions in defence, just as in business. The proportion of women in the Norwegian ISAF force in Afghanistan is currently 12 p.m. The fact that the proportion of women in the ISAF force is almost twice as high as the proportion of women in the Defense at home can be interpreted as a clear signal that women are both wanted and want to participate in international peace operations. This shows that women can and will — even in operations that are described as hazardous. It just shows that girls do as well as boys in the field, in conflict situations, in war or in peace. That girls have qualities and abilities that our defenses have lacked and need in the future, it is high time to recognize. Inclusion of many women in foreign jobs also improves the level of defence to take account of the local population in many countries. In peacekeeping operations, there are many missions to be performed — from patrol and watchkeeping to health and social work for the local population. If you want to succeed in such operations, you have to succeed in all areas. We now see that in particular in Afghanistan. I believe that if we are to achieve the goal of more women in defence, we must use stronger instruments than we have today. In the Labour Party, quotas for women have raised women up and down in many contexts. This has been positive. Therefore, there can be no impossibility of starting to think in those paths as well in the Defense either. I therefore believe that a mild form of quota to get more women to serve in the Defence should be introduced. Now I'm excited about what the Council of State thinks about this. I think the Council of State agrees with me in many areas. But why do we not manage to recruit and keep more women in Defense, and what action does the Council of State think it is necessary to take to increase the proportion of women?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e133	First, I would like to thank the representative Eye for raising the question of why we are unable to recruit and keep more women in Defense. I am pleased with this opportunity to explain in more detail the challenges and measures in this area. It is good that we have a debate on this important issue here in Stortinget. Defense is a modern organization. But the low proportion of women in the defense is not in the pact over time. 15 pst. Women's share has been a measure through large parts of the 1990s, and, as the representative Eye points out, the objective is also today to have 15 pst. women during 2008. This objective is a broad political consensus. At the same time, we probably all have to admit that it's really hard to achieve this in practice. The defense has today at the base of 7 pst. women in command and vocation. It's too low, and this is what the government will do. The challenge of increasing the proportion of women in the defense is three-thirds: we have to recruit more women, we have to keep more women, and we have to get more women in leadership positions in the defense. In order for the defence to be able to handle its tasks, both at home and outside, staff must have different characteristics and skills that complement each other. Of course, women must be qualified for the service to be performed. That's also the women we have today. At the same time, being a woman is a competence in itself. The defence needs more of this competence. Women can thus bring both professional competence and competence to the defense by virtue of being a woman. Women must therefore be a major part of our military forces, and it is very important that the overall competence of women be given – and recognised – throughout the defence. A number of measures have been taken to increase the proportion of women in defence: there are marketing and profiling measures to motivate women to apply for defence. Recruitment officers — preferably women — are used to visit schools and educational fairs. It is follow-up by mobile phone and e-mail to women who have shown interest in the defence. This is the case where women who applied for admission to basic officer training this year were invited to a separate collection prior to the recording. It is the implementation of its own ‘gender camps’. However, the most important measure is a voluntary session for women. The defence sends for the first time to nearly 30 000 women born in 1989. Voluntary session will give the Defense a historic opportunity to increase the recruitment of women. But at the same time we have to admit that it will take some time before we see the effect. It is only in 2008 that the measure will give rise to an increase in the proportion of women in first-time employment, and it will only be in 2009 that it will give rise to an increase in the proportion of women in command and employment. Nevertheless, this measure is a crucial step in getting more women in defence and thus better defence. As the representative Eye points out, once we have recruited the women, we must also keep them! I am therefore very concerned about getting more women in leading positions in the Defence Department. It is necessary to make the overall competence of women visible at all levels. Young women on the way into Defence also need good role models in the organisation. To back this up, I have therefore decided that women applicants for higher positions in the Defence, i.e. at the Colonel level and upwards, shall be mentioned in all settings. This applies regardless of rank. It is important for us to be sure that female candidates are made visible in the application processes. Another measure to bring more women into senior management positions is self-leading programmes for women. These are programs that are supposed to motivate women in Defense to take on leadership tasks. I would also like to briefly address family policy measures here. Such measures have been requested by both women and men in defence. It shall be possible to combine a military professional career with a normal family life. In our speech, the head of defence launched the "Farms' Family Directive". Some of the measures taken in the light of the Directive are the establishment of family coordinators at each department and focus on the need for a life course. In addition, additional resources have been allocated to the specific agreement governing compensation for those serving in international operations. The defence is also trying to reduce the length of foreign service for officers with young children. The measures I have mentioned here are important for both sexes to combine family life and a career in Defence. That's the kind of defense we want. Six years ago UN Security Council Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security was unanimously adopted. The resolution deals, inter alia, with: on the need to have more women in international civil and military operations. In March this year, the Government launched a separate action plan for the implementation of the resolution. One of the measures in the action plan is that there should be a minimum of 25 pst. Women of the Defence Command Schools. In the summer, 15 pst were recorded. women. It underlines the need to continue the work of increasing the recruitment of women. In addition, it is important to increase the proportion of women in other schools in Defence. The Defence Manager has therefore decided that the defence should have a target of 25 p.m. women also at the war schools and at the staff school. I have mentioned a number of measures here. Nevertheless, the proportion of women in defence has remained silent in recent years. So we need a more offensive approach to how we can get more women into the defense. I want to put new strength behind this work. I have therefore taken the initiative to set up a higher women's share sample in Defence. Firstly, the selection shall propose measures to increase the recruitment of women, secondly, propose measures to keep as many women as possible, and thirdly propose measures to bring more women into senior positions in the Defence. In its work, the sample will gather information on the experience of other organisations in their efforts to increase their female participation. The sample shall also draw on the experience of both past and current female officers. Both research environments, defence and employee organisations shall participate in the work. I aim that during the course of March next year, the sample will present its proposals. I meet the committee's work with great anticipation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e177	I thank the Council of State for the answers and for the contribution, which contained many good measures that can make us first and foremost reach the target of 15 p.m. Women's share in 2008, but as I believe, and as I also believe the Council of State thinks, should not stop there. But then we also need to focus on the measures. [[Eye]] I don't think we can settle down that voluntary session, which we are now implementing this year, is going to give the desired numbers without us triggering many other new measures. It is important that we reach the women's share also for higher positions, for women must have something to look for. Own leadership programs for women are good. Family policy is very important in this. It must be possible to combine a professional career with a normal family life – small children, of course, limit it for periods, but it is for periods – and we must facilitate it. But the challenges here should not be greater for women than for men. A good personnel and family policy is therefore important in order to achieve this, and we need to put that in place. 25 pst. in the war schools and the Staff School is a goal that we must achieve. Then it's good role models. Maybe the police have a good role model in Killeggeren, because someone there is doing very well. It is very good that the Council of State now says she will set up a sample to raise the female proportion, where research environments, employee organisations and defence are involved. I understand that the Council of State is also impatient when she says that it will present its work by the end of March next year. I interpret that as if the Council of State is not satisfied with today's state, and that she wants to move on with developing the defence to become an even better organization. That's good. But the Council of State was not in favour of using allowances as an instrument. I know that in a speech in Oslo Military Society for some time ago, the Council of State said that she was not a stranger to use quota as an instrument. I expect that she still believes that it is an instrument that can be used, so that we reach our goals within a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e194	It is incredibly important to focus on the measures needed to increase the proportion of women in defence. I do not doubt that former politicians, including in the 1990s, have tried to focus on action. I believe we're going to ask them what's really going on, those who're in Defense today, and those who've been in Defense, because it's actually those who're experts in their own situation, together with external representatives from research environments and from employee organisations, and also gain experience from other organisations that's got higher in proportion, and the interpellant referred to the police. I believe that with such targeted work we have a better basis to try to approach the goal a little faster. In terms of quotaing, there is a discussion that has also gone into the defense, and which I record at regular intervals. Obviously, it's controversial. I would like to stress that all women who are in the Defence today, who are admitted to schools and jobs, are qualified for the places and jobs they have. If we're going to have radical sex quotas, there's a discussion that we also have to look at in a slightly larger context. But I have good faith that the first step, session, will have an effect, and also that this sample will be able to give us good suggestions for actions that we can take with us and implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e203	Women in Defense are a good thing for Defense, no doubt about it. But the way there has been a long time. Today, women can have all kinds of services in Defense, but it has not always been so. The recent history of defence is, among other things, as follows: 1897: The general obligation to protect men is introduced.1907: A new protection law precludes women from being obliged to serve in the Defence Forces.1946: Education of officers and recruitment schools for women are started. The majority, however, decides that all military training of women should cease until a full investigation by the Defence Commission is complete.1949: The Defence Commission states that it is necessary to exploit the labour force of women in military defence as well.1953: The recommendations of the Defence Commission do not go through in Stortinget.1969: The protection of women's homes is given to women's inspectors.1973: The Nygaard Committee presents its position on the effective exploitation of women for unarmed service in Defence.1976: The majority gives women access to command training, service and mobilization. At the same time, it is stressed that the decision does not give women legal protection.1977: Schools are open to women, and 255 women apply.1983: The Stortinget decides that women should have access to initial service under the same conditions as men.1984: The Stortinget decides to introduce full professional equality.1985: Voluntary protection of women is a reality.1999: Eldbjørg Løwer becomes the first female defence minister in Norway and in a NATO country.2001: Kristin Krohn Devold takes over as Minister of Defence. That same year we get the first female committee leader, and we also get female vice president. And we also now have a female defence minister. Getting more women into the defense has, as said, the defense worked for a long time. I have previously worked as an officer in the Defense Department, among others. I was an officer in charge of the Feltartillery Command School in the mid-1980s. We did a lot just to make women look, and that they should thrive. Kaserners were converted to accommodate girls, as well as many other practical things that one else did not have in a relatively human-dominated society. We were at fairs and schools, etc. with the condition, etc., just to get more girls into the defense. We used the only female branch that we had at Haslemoen to inform about their situation, etc. Some girls searched and came in, but some great success was unfortunately not. You could ask yourself why not, and why not today, and that's why we have this interpellation. The answers are probably multiple, but to say that the defense has not done anything, I think is wrong. Last night I saw a TV ad where the defense was looking for students at the Defence Air Force Air Force School. They said nothing about the particular girls being asked to apply. But is that necessary? For the January 2007 session, 60,000 girls and boys receive letters in the same line. It's the first time in history that a whole coal is being notified of just a session. For the girls, this is voluntary, but we'll see here how much interest is on the part of the girls. The meeting is completely non-committal, but there is the possibility for the girls, in line with boys, to serve the duty of protection and/or to apply for all types of service, education and career in Defence. This could increase the proportion of women in defence. If this doesn't work, we'll have to discuss the situation further. The party wants the defense and not least the girls to be happy. The girls are needed in the defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e260	The representative Signe Eye has raised an important debate here today. There is a broad consensus in this room on the objective of raising the proportion of women in Defence. However, despite this political consensus on the objective, it has unfortunately proved difficult to obtain the desired results. Today's female defence minister shares his commitment to the case with the former, also female, Minister of Defence. In other words, it has not been on good political will and female motivators at the highest level. However, there may be reason to ask the question of whether the will of the Defense itself is large enough. The defence is and has always been strongly man-dominated, and it is to a large extent this human-dominated environment itself – and not us politicians – that must contribute to the establishment of women. Such modernisation should be just as natural for defence as modernising material and operational training. If the defense is to attract the wisest of heads, a recruitment strategy must be implemented as soon as possible which also reaches women. Even though the targets we've set are not fully met, there are some positive features. This could be done, for example, by: refers to the increase from 11 pst in the proportion of women among applicants for defence. from 2001 to 21 p.m. in 2004. In addition, new recruitment measures have been introduced in recent years – measures which, of course, do not necessarily have immediate effects but which are hoped to work positively over time. Here I am thinking especially of calling women to the session. The session and initial service are the main recruitment platforms of the Defence Agency. Then the centre-right government in St.prp. No 42 for 2003-2004 proposed a session for women, emphasising that attendance should not be required by law. This line I am pleased that the current Minister of Defence has continued. I don't think it's through negative and coercive measures we can increase recruitment. On the contrary, positive measures are needed to make the service itself attractive, for women as for men. Precautionary protective measures are an important element in the recruitment and justification of initial services. It is positive that the Stoltenberg government has continued to escalate the dispensation allowance. But to make the service more attractive to women, it has to be thought of further. The service itself must be made more attractive to women. It will be the day the Defense appears to be a modern organization also in relation to equality. This is not least a challenge to the female command we have today, but also to the head of defence and not least to the male command. Clear role models shall not be underestimated, and when Ingrid Girde joined earlier this year as the first female guard manager ever, one of the Defense's most profiled and perhaps the most prestigious departments of a woman. It shows that the defense has well-qualified women in its midst, which it is important to raise. It's just a matter of making them bet on a military career, and it's a matter of facilitating this combination with family and children. I have also noticed that the Minister of Defence assesses radical gender quotas, both for recruitment and for getting women into positions in the Defence. Right, and I don't think that's a solution to the challenge we see. At best it will cover the root of the problem. If the Minister of Defense believes that the defence is not capable of being attractive enough for this one-half of Norway’s population — which in fact constitutes more than half the country’s intelligence — it is nothing less than a failed statement for the Defense itself. When girls otherwise storm into higher education, invade real science, medical training, etc., it should also be possible for the defense as an organization to appear so attractive that it also attracts some of the foremost and most attractive girls. It's important not only to set a measurement for how many women there should be in the defense, but also to reflect on why they should be there. Several women in Defense will help maintain the legitimacy of the duty of protection in the people, and strengthen ties between women and the Defence. It is in this way very positive that the Minister of Defense has now reduced this selection for a higher proportion of women in Defense, and like the Council of State, I am anxious to see what this selection might propose. Another important reason why women's recruitment is important is that we need to ensure good recruitment to the Defense overall. In a modern society, neither will men, I think, want an organization that is just a human organization and perhaps characterized by macho culture. In addition, of course, it is important to ensure that the defence gets the widest possible recruitment base, and it is also important that the girls get a place in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e279	All those concerned with gender equality must also be concerned that women are given the opportunity to choose their own path, even if they enter the Defence Force. Why is it harder for women than for men to find their place in Defense? Because it's obvious, it shows the numbers. Despite years of gender equality, power and resources are unevenly distributed here in society. Women earn less than men, own less and have fewer leading positions. The glass stack is in many places hard and impermeable for women who choose other ways, who choose their careers. The debate on women in governments shows that there needs to be a political will to choose drastic measures to ensure equal opportunities for women in society. I think, without having experience, that it's the hardest thing to get into Defense, because, as many others have been involved, human culture is so strong. There's a great variety in the world of what war and defense has been up through time. But war has been primarily a matter for men everywhere. This does not mean that women have not been involved in armed conflicts as actors. Today's defences in industrialised countries include large, permanent military systems characterized by hierarchical structures run by men. I think, in this context, that it is not so strange that quotaing is perhaps a more controversial tool in defence than many other places in society. I think this is some of the background to a study by the Armed Forces in March 2004. It showed that as many as 61 pst. Of women over 30 years of age, they would like to say yes to take-off-stimulating services. It's true that it's important not only to recruit women, but also to keep them. I think Signe Eye is right that when so few women stay in Defense, it has to do with attitudes, but there are attitudes that are based on power structures and in the view of women. I can vividly imagine what it's like to be a minority in the Defense – because that's when it's just 7 pst. women. I can imagine how the coercion to socialize into a human culture is. I think it's most important to have a discussion about what values the defense should be based on, what tasks it should have. Peace building, peaceful conflict resolution civil and disaster preparedness must be given greater place in a defence concept. In the SV as in many other environments, I am quite sure, there has been a debate about whether it is reasonable and right to accept a general female protection obligation. This question has not been clarified, but for many reasons I believe that general female protection is not a dangerous path. There is no need to impose more burdens on women, who bear the greatest social burdens from before, but it is reasonable that women who choose Defense should have a better framework. It is absolutely right that a modern organisation should have ambitions to recruit more women. I want to mention one very good reason why it is important that more women choose this way. As the Minister of Defence said, the UN has adopted Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security. The Norwegian defence team will participate and participate in international operations with the UN mandate. International operations shall not only stop conflicts but also contribute to restoring trust between the parties. Increased female participation in international peace operations has therefore been an objective of the UN system. Several women in uniform can be bridge builders between peacekeeping forces and local women’s groups and local women’s organisations, thus increasing trust. Norway has gained some experience in the NORDBAT forces in Lebanon. It was as if with female doorkeepers at a party, the women helped to lower the tension and aggression levels in the operating area and were fellow players with the local women. I believe that women in peacekeeping operations can – and do – bring in a broader aspect of properties, values and competences. The interpellant said there are twice as many women in the ISAF forces in Afghanistan as there is in the Defense here at home. It builds up in a 2001 survey, which shows that 61 pst. of the women asked for participation in international operations. I therefore believe that the measures that the Minister for Defence has taken, including: from this perspective, is important. It is also important what she says about going out and asking the women who have either been in the defense, or are in the defense, about the measures to be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e300	First of all, I want to give tribute to Signe Eye, who addresses this theme in an interpellation. It is a commendable initiative, which we hope will give rise to further initiatives and raise awareness both in the United Kingdom, in Defence and in society. This is an important theme for us in the Christian People's Party. It's a theme that I've been busy for a long time. In my first post on the Defense in this room – it's quite exactly nine years ago now – I said that I wish in my time on the Defence Committee that I would experience Norway appointing a female colonel. That's where we were. In the budget debate two years later, in 1999, I was able to testify: the first female colonel was appointed, and we saw it as an important step in the right direction – although it goes as late as it does. In addition, Bondevik appointed the first female defence minister. It was also an important symbol and a leading star from a woman's perspective in Defence. After that, we have now received flag commanders, and we have been managed in the Garden for the first time in the 150-year history of the Garden. There are no positions in defence to which women in principle do not have access. Although we still have a long way to go, luckily something has happened on this front in the last few years. Today, the defence has more female pilots and many officers of all ages and at different levels. It's moving forward – slowly but surely. The representative Eye asked questions about why it is so difficult to recruit women to the Defense Department. In my opinion, one of the important answers to that question is tradition and culture. The defense has been a human arena in the past. It just hasn't been a current option for women to think in those paths. It has not been thought of as an opportunity to enter the defence after you have completed your education. It hasn't exactly been a low-threshold offer, you might say, with women's eyes, because there's been a lack of knowledge about opportunities, but maybe also because the culture of defence has been alien, man-dominated and little organized for women. We cannot ignore the fact that there are also some myths and prejudices both for women and for the defense that have delayed the increase in women's share. Another question that has been asked here today is, how are we going to be able to keep the women who have come above this threshold and into the Defense? I think we need to know more, and I'm happy for the initiative that the Council of State mentions, to ask the women who are in Defense, who have been in Defense: what's the reason? What are the real obstacles? The question of what measures are needed to increase the proportion of women in defence is also interesting. I think that the session, for which the Storting has gone in, is an important key. It's great that all women are now being called to volunteer session. On the session day, one can discover what opportunities actually exist in the Defense, and not just look at it from all the myths that society has about the Defense. We may also need to consider whether or not the session should be made compulsory, so that even more people are aware of the possibilities. Family policy measures, I think, are important measures also to meet women in the defence sector. But I think it also has something for itself for the defense to meet today's young men. They also have a different relationship with family and being a family father than you had before. So a new perspective on family life will provide increased opportunities for both women and young men in Defense. It must be possible for the employer to ensure that the family can be taken on the removal leave, and that it can be arranged for both partner and nursery services. Why is it so important to increase the proportion of women in defense? Is it true that women must enter because they create a positive environment, because they have good attitudes, soft values, exciting new thoughts and represent something new, something exotic? That's not always true. Sometimes we women are just as traditionally thinking as there are men on the inside of the defense. But what I feel very sure about, since we represent half of Norway's population, is: we need to defend ourselves as women, and women need that there are women in defense. It's a matter of course. It's about equivalency, it's about equality, and it's not always about something going to be so exciting, fun and interesting. We have to have an impatient perpetuity. Not least, we need to be able to stay. We need to have a condos if we're going to be able to achieve our goal of defence reflecting the society we live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e319	First, I would like to thank the representative Signe Eye, who, through the interpellation, puts this theme in focus. I want to start by stressing that the Center Party wants to have a defense of the people, not a unilateral, vested defense. General duty of protection shall be the foundation of the Norwegian defence. The general duty of protection ensures that we have soldiers from all walks of life inside to first duty. The Center Party's program says that the Center Party wants more women into the Defense. Furthermore, it says that we want to have a session for both women and men, and change the session to a military day in high school. Now we've got a voluntary session for girls. Is it going to be the next step to invite all girls into the first place? What about a military day in high school to make defence more diverse than it has traditionally been? As mentioned earlier, in October 2000, the UN Security Council adopted Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security. This was the first time in the United Nations history that the Security Council took a position on questions about women’s roles and experiences in armed conflict. Resolution 1325 ‘Provides a strong recommendation to the United Nations Member States to ensure greater representation of women at all decision-making levels in national, regional and international institutions and measures to prevent, manage and resolve conflicts’. Member States shall incorporate in their training and training programmes elements relating to the protection, rights and special needs of women and the importance of women participating in all peace-keeping and peace-building activities. There has been a significant build-up of expertise in Defence in this area. The Norwegian defence already meets several of the Government’s priorities in the resolution and now focuses on achieving the remaining objectives of stimulating diversity and equality in the organisation. The defense must be an organisation of the pact over time. Other speakers have underlined this. Fortunately, in Norway, we have come much further than many other countries in terms of equality and representation of women in the public and private sectors. It is therefore quite natural and necessary that the proportion of women should be increased and that we show it in practice. One area we have to work with in the future is to organize families in the Defence, so that it works, among other things. facilitates the residence of defence families in defence municipalities. The centre party believes that the obligation to protect is the basis and tool for getting more women into the defence. The debate now on future models of protection is interesting and topical. One of the models is to summon a guardian to a longer, but more attractive service, of up to two years. Another model is to call many into a short service, where the Army can actively recruit the best for further service. Some people play with the idea of adding an environmental element to the last part of such a service, where some of the recruits choose it as a future area of competence. We know we have major environmental challenges, especially in the northern regions. A civil defence element in which we get a unit specifically directed towards it, cf. the threat from elements outside the world, and a professional part is something we should have with us in the debate further. I am convinced that this is an important moment, and that the debate on the duty to protect the future will also include whether women should be called in, possibly invited to, compulsory protection. This is something I look forward to discussing in the time that comes – even though I hear with interest that I am defined into the group that has the lowest intelligence and bears the least social responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e340	My and the Left's approach to the debate today is the anchor of defence in the people. With the general equality we've had in society, and with the general level of education we have in society, it'll be completely unnatural if not also women found a broader place in society than they've had in history. Equally unnatural would be to use instruments from the 1970s' women's fight to get women in. I was one of those who in their time voted in favour of quotaing in my own party. When I meet young, well-trained women today, they sniff at me when I mention the word quota, and they look at me like a rarity. I would like to be very clear: as far as defence and police are concerned, there must be a serious underestimation of those who are applying for these important societal tasks, if they are to be allocated. Then you start with a starting point that is as faulty as possible. Neither the police nor the defense are then some sort of experiment in some kind of model of quota. The police and the defense have very important tasks in society. Why should the defense be worse than the police, with what has happened there? I have a lot of knowledge of that. We have come into the situation that quite recently was the third-party of those who were graduated from the Police College, women. So we know that not everyone gets leadership positions. Some of the grips then were quite direct debates in the picnic room, as it is called, about switching guards. Some people need to change a guard to look after children to avoid divorce, while others are going to play squash. You must then be allowed to have the same real exchange ratio for what you are replacing, but you should not be prepared for the reason for the exchange. I have the approach that what has happened in the police is, and must be, fully possible in the defense. I am also fully convinced, with the very systematic line that the Minister of Defence has set up, and which I would call reflected recruitment, that it is a good way to go. If we go back to the police, we have a police director who's a woman. We also have four female police officers. There's probably going to be more, because there's a lot of people just working through the sequences. It was also the case a few years ago when I visited other countries to study their police and intelligence systems and hit top management in the FBI. The Chief Executive was a politically appointed man. The highest ranked who had gone the degrees was a woman. She had worked from the street as a constable and was serving as a vice president in the FBI. When we have a woman as head of the Garden, as several have explained – the representative of Bredvold has also given an excellent historical presentation of the development – I personally think that it is almost to pooren the women who look at the Defence with great interest when you want them to be auctioned. Moreover, it must be completely misunderstood. In practice, defence should not be used to run a social welfare club in an extreme sense, either for men or for women. In the extreme sense, you have to be in very difficult situations, where you are either very alone or very dependent on being alone in close interaction with others. Of course, I don't think women are better suited to it than men, on the contrary. I think, like many representatives here, that women have considerable social intelligence to supply. It's clear that in our society, women face so many complicated and challenging organizational tasks that taking it into their defenses is likely to be a reflection of a little solid cultures. As a result, you may often get what you need — in addition to good education, you will also have flexibility in problem solving. I'm sure women will bring that particular component into the defense. Yesterday I quoted in another case Scenarier 2000, made in 1986-1987. It was said that Norway’s largest advantage in the OECD region was the crowd of well-trained women in the population. And then you added dry: but we're sadly bad at organizationally benefiting from it. I feel that the Minister of Defence and also other representatives in his speeches here today are stating that they are systematically just trying to benefit from it. So there's been some reflections on family relationships. Yes, it must also apply to young men – modern families do have it so that they prefer to live a good life – and I see the Minister of Defence like this. This is an enthusiastic commitment to the defense’s anchoring in the people to recruit more women. I have strong faith that they're going to move forward, and that we're going to get more examples of the type of guard. I'd like to see it as a review of the women who are prepared to enter here, that they should be quotad. But that they should be recruited intelligently, as the Minister of Defense puts it, I'm excited about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e358	Some comments on the submissions. I notice that the Advance Party also believes that women are a good thing for the Defense, but it did not appear in the post that you want to do anything about it, or use any tools. Then I don't think it's very short to reach the goal either. As far as the representative Aspaker is concerned, it is acceptable to agree that the defence itself must address this, but at least I believe that it is not enough. Then it will be years and days and many decades before we reach the goal that we agree on, and that everyone here in the Chamber has been completely agreed on today. It's actually the end of the cold war, and the defense has been given new tasks – it's changed. Now we're going to create a new defense. It must be modern, it must be the defence of the future, which must preserve a completely new threat picture. That doesn't mean we're going to use the Defense for peacekeeping operations. Then we also have to have a content in the Defense that stands by the ambitions that we believe it should fulfill. As Mr Ågot Valle also said, in international operations, it is precisely women who can be the major bridge builders, as in difficult operations such as: Afghanistan is. Then we also have to be able to get this done. It's moving forward,' said the representative Eriksen, slowly, but surely. Yes, in fact, it took almost 100 years for us to introduce general protection until we got girls to have the same opportunities in the defense. In fact, I hope that we are not as patient in this matter. The representative Dørum believes that radical sex quotaing is not the way to go. I can agree with that, but a mild form of quota can actually happen in many ways. This is not a poor attempt by anyone. Of course, women should also be qualified. That's not what we're talking about. But if we have two of the same qualifications, it might be possible to pick a woman. There's a lot of people who need a puff. And when it still doesn't say that you encourage women to apply for positions in Defense, even though we know that they're underrepresented, we actually have a lot of steps to take to succeed much better than we do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e371	Once again I would like to say that it is positive that the representative Signe Eye has taken up the debate. I also think it is very positive that there have been so many contributions from other representatives. That the Storting is concerned about this, will also be very important and inspiring for the women who are in Defense today. Some comments: I fully agree that volunteering, and making yourself attractive, is the most important thing. But I also trust that those who have been in front of me have tried it. We just have to admit that we didn't get a percentage higher than what we were in the 1990s. That's what's really difficult and demanding, because we all have a common goal that we should first of all achieve these 15 psts. It is also the case that women should really have an impact on the organisation of defence, that in the long term the proportion of women should probably be increased even more – and perhaps more than 20 pst. for women to have real influence on the organisation. I have no doubt that it is a common political objective that we should also get there when I hear the debate here today. I would like to stress again that all the women who are in Defense today, or those who have a school position in Defense, are qualified. It's a pleasure that we're now inviting everyone to the session. I think it will be a completely different experience for women that they are invited to a session, compared to having to pick up the phone earlier, call and contact the defense themselves – which is a much higher threshold. One study shows that 50 pst. I have agreed to meet you. I fully agree that then the defense has its great opportunity to market all the career opportunities that are actually for women – and hopefully be attractive enough. I share Mr. Dørum's great commitment to the defense's anchoring in the people. I fully agree that it is important at a time when only one-third of the public service is providing first-time service. In such a perspective, I would say that I think you should think carefully about whether women should also have compulsory first-time services. There may be a discussion which may arise in the wake of the range of defence policy, which shall take a general view of the need for protection and how it is to be organised. But again: I think it is very positive that there is such an involvement in the Storting, and I am absolutely sure that it will be felt as a very great inspiration for women in the Defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e389	The interpellant debate is closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e407	The maritime industries are Norway’s most traditional industries and are the industries that before the oil age made Norway known in the big world. It gave very many Northmen the opportunity to travel out and experience the world. It has provided the country with significant incomes from abroad and has helped build up our welfare level over many generations — and it has not least given us pride. We have all been proud when we abroad have seen the Norwegian flag vaie at the top of ships with Norwegian names. When we are now discussing the future of shipping, it is important that we have with us the historical significance of this industry for our country. It is quick to forget the importance of other industries to the country now at times when the treasury literally runs out of oil money. Compared with the importance of the maritime industries, the age of oil has been very short. The councils themselves come from one of the country's leading shipping states and know the story very well. But we all have to remind ourselves of this meaning at regular intervals. The starting point for this interpellation is that many other countries also see the importance of having a significant activity of maritime enterprises within their borders. There is huge competition between countries around the world to attract these businesses and the value creation they represent. Competition is tough, shipping is probably one of the most international industries in the world. Ships can sail anywhere, industrial enterprises are placed where the framework conditions are best, and financial enterprises are placed where there are good framework conditions, where the best heads exist and where access to capital is good. Norway has managed to assert itself very well in this competition over many generations, but we have now begun to slow down because other countries introduce framework conditions that are better than what can be achieved in Norway. For a highly capital-intensive industry, framework conditions such as taxation and access to capital mean a great deal, and localisation will be determined on this basis. There's a world championship going on out there – getting the best in the maritime world – and we have very good competitors. Many EU countries also have long maritime traditions. Denmark and the Netherlands are two important countries, and these countries see the importance of maintaining their historical and current positions in these industries. This is why the EU has launched a significant effort to implement a common maritime strategy to ensure that the EU area will continue to be an attractive area to localise maritime businesses and jobs in the future. As Dutch Professor Niko Wijnolst said so well at a meeting in the Maritim Forum earlier this year, when he was asked why the EU has this as a bet area: This is something we can do – therefore we should bet on it further instead of starting something new. This should also apply to Norway, because if there is something we can do, it is to run businesses related to the maritime cluster. Then we should have an intense commitment to this and not start with anything else, but rather take the goal of becoming world champions and shake off our competitors. We all have the opportunity to do that, but it requires a clear and explicit policy with instruments that are the best in the world. This does not mean that we are lagging behind and need to adapt to measures taken in the EU or elsewhere. It requires that we be able to lay something in front of us, so that we do not become the party that is constantly losing and working in the back. The EU has the following focus in the development of maritime industries: reconquer the position of the EU countries as a leader in maritimeindustry refresher countries’ maritime identityhas a competent maritimeindustry strengthcompetitiveness to the maritime clusterenhance the quality of life of the maritimeregionsincreased the value of maritimeindustryincreased exports from industry-enhancing internationalisation strength R & D in industry-enhancing maritime education and training These are just a few examples, and I could have mentioned many more, but it shows well how much EU investment is. Half of Europe’s population lives in coastal areas, and is closely related to what is happening both along the coast and on the sea. The government has announced in the Soria Moria Declaration that it wants to pursue a more active industrial policy than has been done by previous governments. So far, there's been a lot of fumbling about what this active business policy is going to do, but now the government has been sitting for well over a year, and it's time to act. The Progress Party fully agrees with the Government that we should pursue a more active industrial policy and that we should focus on industries where we have natural and traditional advantages. The maritime industries, such as companies and industry shall be part of an active and targeted policy to secure the maritime clusters of the future. In the Soria Moria Declaration, shipping has received its own chapter where it appears: ‘Norway must have the ambition to be a world leader in maritime research, development of competences and innovation. Through good and stable framework conditions, we will contribute to ensuring jobs and growth in the maritime industries.’ And it turns out that the Government will develop a national strategy for the maritime industry because Norway has a special competence and especially advantage. All of this is very good, but now ask Stortinget's action and that the Government prepares matters in this area that Stortinget can discuss and decide on. It is very good that we have now secured a net pay scheme after many years of uncertainty, but we must not rest solely on this result. Introducing an active maritime business policy requires much more, and there is little time to lose. Now it has to be done. It is important to highlight the importance of shipping companies to maintain a significant maritime cluster in Norway. The shipowners are the engine of this cluster because it is the investments that are decided upon in these establishments, which have an impact on the other industries, such as: shipyards, equipment suppliers, finance and insurance. Without shipping companies located in Norway, a great deal of these businesses will be confused and perhaps move abroad as well. That's where the shipowner sits and where the head office is located, the investment decisions are made. It will then be an advantage for local enterprises where relations are already in place, to get contracts when ships are to be built and equipped. The shipping companies will also feel a stronger obligation to hire local seafarers than to recruit them from London or Singapore. Therefore, it is important that we provide companies with internationally competitive tax frameworks that allow competition from Norway in an internationally competitive everyday life. Some would then argue that this way we give more to those who are already rich, and that it will be improperly distributed. No, it's wrong, because this is working capital that is absolutely necessary in this type of capital-intensive business. There are no means available for consumption. In conclusion, I would like to clarify once again how important these maritime industries are to our country, and that we now have to add an extra gear to remain on the pallet. This is only we ourselves who can do something about it. Other nations don't think about us. They will win the competition and attract those businesses. Therefore, I ask the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade the following question: How is Dag Terje Andersen and all the other Nordics going to be world champions in the maritime industries?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e486	Norway remains among the world’s largest shipping nations. The number of ships in the Norwegian fleet is one of the largest in four years, approx. 1 700 ships. We control the world's second largest offshore fleet, and so far this year there are orders for approximately 24 billion kroner at Norwegian shipyards. The yards thus have orders for over 40 billion dollars. Norwegian shipyards hold the position as the clearest supplier of ships to Norwegian shipping companies. Norwegian shipping is going well! Norway shall continue to have a leading role in quality shipping internationally and shall be an attractive place to own and operate shipping. Shipping and shipping are an important part of the maritime cluster in Norway. We have a unique maritime cluster in this country, and it is broadly composed. It is internationally oriented and links with other clusters such as the seafood sector and the oil and gas sector. This is a clear force. It is therefore important for the entire maritime environment that we have competitive shipping companies in Norway. At the end of October, I had the pleasure of attending the opening of the Norwegian Centre of Expertise Maritime at More. Then I got a good insight into the good work done in that region. This cluster is a very good example of cooperation and competition taking advantage of international competition. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government has pointed out the maritime sector as one of the five sectors we want to focus on. We have all made more efforts in the maritime industry policy. In particular, I would like to highlight the main measures. Competent seafarers are important for maritime Norway. I believe we need Norwegian seafarers to maintain and further develop the competence of the maritime industries in Norway. Norwegian seafarers are important in maintaining Norway as a leading maritime nation. Since last autumn, we have increased the measures to secure jobs for Norwegian seafarers. We had to reverse the proposal of the Bondevik Government, which would weaken the framework conditions for Norwegian seafarers. We continued the reimbursement system and the net pay system for seafarers. Consequently, foreign ferries were guaranteed more equivalent conditions of competition. We extended the scheme from 1 July this year. Thus, more seafarers on ships in NOR were included in the net pay scheme. Coastal fleets were thus also ensured more equivalent conditions of competition with central EU countries. This is entirely in line with the Soria Moria declaration. We've allocated 165 million. kr more to the scheme this year than last year. In addition, the Government of the State Budget for 2007 promoted the inclusion of the safety crew on board Hurtigruten ships under the net pay scheme. This means that we will secure jobs and ensure more competitive framework conditions for the Hurtigruten. Next year, in the Ministry of Industry and Trade's budget, we propose to allocate more than DKK 1.3 billion to measures to ensure employment for 9700 seafarers. The measure also provides Norwegian shipping companies with more competitive framework conditions. We have also reintroduced the tax exemption for the special rent supplement for seafarers. The relief will benefit 16 000 seafarers. We take seriously the competitive situation of Norwegian seafarers and Norwegian shipping. We will ensure value-creating jobs in maritime industries in Norway. We do it because we want to give seafarers stable framework conditions. And we're doing it to contribute to the stability of Norwegian shipping and growth in the maritime industries. Plans for the relocation and deflagration of e.g. the ‘Color Line’ shuttle was shrunk with this government’s shipping policy. It's joyous, and it shows that our policy is working. In June, the Government presented two legislative proposals that will improve maritime safety and strengthen seafarers' rights. Overall, these two legislative proposals are one of the largest legislative reforms in many years in the maritime sector. The new Ship Safety Act provides for the extension of a 100-year-old piece of legislation. It introduces a general requirement for the quality assurance system on all ships. A central point of the bill is that there will be a greater responsibility on shipping companies than it is in the existing law. The proposals for amendments to the Seafarer’s Act prohibit direct and indirect discrimination against seafarers due to political views, membership of workers’ organisations, sexual orientation, disability and age. We give seafarers the same protection as workers on land have. That means we're strengthening seafarers' rights. We still have major challenges in terms of providing good conditions for shipping. Such a challenge is the shipping tax. Tax is an important issue for the industry. The previous government put down a sample to look at the shipping tax. The Shipyards Committee completed its work in March this year, and the referral from the sample has been at the hearing. The Board of Directors shall assess the report and the hearing opinions of the Steering Committee. We are fully aware of the industry's need for clarification on this issue. The government is actively working on the international arena to ensure high safety standards at sea. The work of the United Nations Maritime Organisation, the IMO, is central. A global industry such as shipping needs global solutions. That is why we want to have as much legislation through the IMO as possible. We will avoid developing competing regional solutions. It will not do any good for the environment or for maritime safety. The Maritime Green Paper, presented in June, outlines a comprehensive maritime and maritime policy for the EU. Emphasis has been placed on the need for an overall approach to ensure the sustainable use of land and the exploitation of resources. The government actively cooperates with the EU on a future maritime policy. Norway, as the only third country, has been invited to participate with a national expert in the Secretariat responsible for the Green Paper. The Maritime Industries Forum is a contact forum for maritime industries in the EU. They organised an international conference on the Green Paper in Norway last month. It is the first time such a conference is added to a non-EU Member State. The Commission sent the Green Paper to be consulted. The government commits to send a consultation response to the Commission in good time before the expiry of the deadline – in order to achieve early influence in the further process. With our experience and knowledge in the maritime field, we want to be an important contributor to EU maritime policy. Increasing focus in this area in the EU will also provide opportunities for further development of Norwegian competence and value creation in the maritime industries. The aim of EU work on the Maritime Green Paper is parallel to the ambitions of the government parties set out in the Soria Moria Declaration. National strategies are being developed here in areas where Norway has competence or special advantages. The maritime sector is such an area. There we have a wide-ranging and internationally oriented business. We have started working on the longer-term national maritime strategy. The strategy must strengthen and further develop the maritime industries. Actions aimed at maritime research and innovation will be an important part of the strategy. This is the basis for Norway to be a leading maritime nation in the future. The government wants to contribute to increased research and innovation in the maritime industries. Research and innovation are the basis for making the necessary changes. We want to ensure nationally important industries, and at the same time we want to create new businesses and new jobs. That's why we increased the funding for maritime research and development, by 60 million. kr, in the current year. Our main contribution has been to facilitate the research and innovation activity that MARUT, Maritime Development, is seeking to start. MARUT is a cooperation between the authorities and the maritime industries to increase maritime research and innovation. The aim is to strengthen the competitiveness and value creation of the maritime industries. We can't be a maritime nation without shipping! In order to ensure value creation and employment in the maritime industries, the Government has given Norwegian shipping policy a new course through good and stable framework conditions. Seafarers under the net pay scheme are provided with framework conditions equivalent to the most favourable arrangements in central EU and EEA countries. I know well that general and predictable framework conditions are essential to assert themselves in international competition to maintain and attract economic activity. The commitment to maritime research and development will for the time being also show that we are pursuing a forward-looking maritime policy. What is certain is that, after the government change, we have got a more predictable and more offensive maritime policy. The change of government itself has been an important contribution to the development of the maritime industry in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e543	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is true, as the Council of State points out, that the situation in the industry is now reasonably good — it is a good economy. Shipowners are investing, and there is a lot going on in offshore operations. The yards have a good order mass. But it is precisely in these times that we should not rest – it is in the good times that we should strengthen our backs. Although the situation is good, it is still 70-80 pst. the initial investment takes place abroad. Governments are right that we have a unique maritime cluster in Norway. That's what I've also tried to point out in my post. It is positive that the Government wants to cooperate with the EU on what will happen in the examination of the Green Paper. However, it is important that we, who are outside the EU, are reasonably quick to implement the policy that the EU will implement in its area. Therefore, it is important that the Government now dries dust from the shipping message. It's been lying for too long. Governments should identify the position of the Industry Committee, which has a good policy for the industrial part of the maritime industries. He should follow the proposals of the minority in the Shipowners' Committee, because the shipping industry knows no borders. It's moving where the frame conditions are best. This is an area where there are very many tools in the so-called toolkit of the Minister of Industry. Denmark has a very active policy in this area. The focus is on «Det Blå Danmark». The Danish Government has presented an action plan with ambition to make Denmark Europe's leading maritime nation, one of the world's most competitive maritime nations, both in terms of shipping and in terms of a wide range of related industries. They focus on the following areas: better education, research, development and innovation, taxation and development funding, relief of administrative burdens and fewer Danish specific rules, promotion of Danish influence and market access, increased focus on quality shipping and an efficient, service-oriented and modern administration. I allow myself to ask the Council of State the following questions: When will the Government invite the Stortinget to deal with a similar action plan for maritime Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e558	It is obvious — and it is pleasing — that the interpellant shares the Government’s ambitions in the shipping sector. When it's said that we're going to be on the pole as a shipping nation, it's also this government's ambition. It is a reality that when the previous government took over — just over five years ago — Norway was the number three of the statistics measured in fleet size. When the last government left – the government that had the support of Kielland Asmyhr’s party – we were down in seventh place. Now we're up in the fifth place measured in fleet size. In addition to changes in volume and in tonnes, there has been a change in the Norwegian fleet towards more advanced technological vessels, including: related to the offshore fleet. So there has been both technological development and good volume development in terms of maritime and shipping during this government. It's true, as the representative says, there's a lot of people investing abroad. I was with the Crown Prince Couple three weeks ago visiting India, and registered that Norwegian boats were under construction. But at the same time I registered that Indian shipping companies contracted the advanced offshore vessels from e.g. Aker Brattvaag. That means that trade goes both ways. Much of the input and equipment in the boats being built in India is provided by Norwegian subcontractors – because we are good, because we have a good maritime environment in Norway, and because we have advanced technology on navigation and other systems used by other countries. This applies, for example: also ship construction. So this is going on across borders. With today's maritime policy, Norway is doing better than it did under the previous government. Then there was a question of what tools we have, or – as the representative called it – tools. We have a lot of tools. Some of the tools have been there all along, but have been used too little. We are investing a lot in research in this sector, partly through the MAROFF, which is the programme of the Research Council, we have increased the activity towards more investment in Norway, through MARUT, we have expanded the GIEK scheme by DKK 10 billion – at least if the proposal in the government budget is adopted in Stortinget – we are working on the maritime strategy that the representative is asking for now, we have improved the net pay system, we are setting up a Center of Expertise for the maritime sector and other centres with a big angle towards that maritime – yes, we have so many measures that I don't even reach them, because now I have to finish my contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e571	I think it is commendable of Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr to travel an interpellation on our maritime policy. I still record that he has a relatively negative starting point, namely the starting point that the maritime industries lose terrain and are in decline. I have to say that that's not exactly the impression I'm left with of today's situation. On the contrary, the maritime companies go very well and better than in a long time. Some 90,000 people in this country are employed in what we can call maritime businesses, and a large part of these businesses are essential to life and employment along our coast. The maritime environment in Norway, unlike in some other countries, is characterised by the wide range of services, products and competences. The maritime industry is based on Norwegian maritime traditions, Norwegian seafarers, Norwegian seafarers and shipping companies. We're going to build on those traditions. The maritime industry is a future industry, characterised by the Government's ambition to make Norway a world leader in maritime research, development of competences and innovation. It is crucial for the future of this industry. In that light, we must also see the net pay scheme, which the Bondevik government in all its business neutrality would liquidate, but which this government maintained and expanded. The net pay scheme has not only saved important Norwegian jobs on board Norwegian ships, it has also contributed to growth, value creation and innovation. And even though some Right-Representatives refer to the net pay scheme as subsidies for bar operation on board Norwegian foreign trips, it is a fact that large parts of the shipping industry were about to fly out when the government change took place last autumn. Norwegian seafarers and Norwegian shipping companies are, in my opinion, a crucial prerequisite for the development of our maritime industries. If the sailors disappear, the shipping companies disappear. As a result, the maritime companies also disappear, and Norway becomes an incredibly poorer country. That is why we need to enable shipping and the maritime industries to meet an increasingly tougher international competition. We cannot compete with low-cost countries and flags of convenience in terms of pay and working conditions. But when Norwegian shipping companies demand Norwegian seafarers — and they do, in fact, today — there are other qualities they look for, namely competence and seafaring. I think the group manager Ingar Schaug in the company Wilh. Wilhelmsen gave a good answer to this question, when he was asked if an Indian captain would act as Captain Arne Rinnan and his crew did during the so-called "Tampa" case. Shadow answered with a counter-question. He said, "What do you think?" Norwegian shipping and maritime activities depend on their framework conditions. Shipping, which operates in a global market, is particularly sensitive to fluctuations in international trade and competitive conditions. Whether we like it or not, we have to admit that the shipowner's capital flows easily where the framework conditions are most favourable. Then, of course, we can sit on our high horse and say'so what?', knowing that it can cause us considerable losses of jobs, of capital and of competence. I think, for example, there is a good reason why Norwegian shipowners have now been filled in the ship yards’ order books for a long time to come. The government is now assessing the shipping tax. I'm not going to prejudge the conclusions here and now. However, as the interpellant pointed out, the EU Green Paper and maritime policy are of great importance to us. The Green Paper sets out a coherent and comprehensive policy for the development of maritime industries and transport, value creation, competitiveness and employment. And the shipping tax is, of course, part of this. I feel quite certain that the government is scoring to the Green Paper in the work of a national maritime strategy that just takes our opportunities and ambitions as a maritime nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e588	When Stortinget dealt with the shipping news in the spring of 2004, there was a broad majority in this room to keep shipping as one of Norway's most important industries. Instead of fully aligning the situation with it immediately, a selection was set to deal with shipping's framework conditions. As you know, this selection has now presented its work. Both the majority and the minority in this selection agree that today's framework conditions are not competitive and that if the corresponding conditions are not established in Norway as in Europe, shipping has to establish itself outside Norway. In the hearing, almost all businesses, including workers’ organisations, also expressed a clear desire to create European tax conditions for the réaur, so that we can keep the reaarlag and the rest of the Norwegian maritime industry in Norway. Six months have passed since the hearing period expired, and there is reason to ask the question: Is this yet another matter that falls into the Ministry of Finance, or does the Government plan to bring the matter before the Storting within a short time? The matter is simply very simple: if we want to keep Norwegian shipping in Norway, we need to establish internationally competitive framework conditions. Here's the tax keyword. If we're not competitive about taxes, growth will happen out there and not in Norway. All EU countries with significant shipping have chosen the Dutch tonnage tax model, which is now the current tax model for shipping. More and more countries outside the EU have also adopted this tax model. I would like to remind you, as the representative Asmyhr also pointed out, that the introduction of tonnage taxes in Denmark a few years ago has given rise to enormous growth in Danish shipping – while Norwegian shipping is developing much weaker. The Dutch tonnage tax model provides for a definitive tax exemption at company level. Surpluses from shipping may be freely distributed to the owner-occupier or used in other commercial activities, without the addition of other taxes. Only when handing over to a personal shareholder is the excess tax paid. The taxation of shareholders follows from the ordinary tax system and has no bearing on whether the company is taxed on tonnage. Today’s Norwegian system means that a dividend tax of 28 p.m. must be paid. when dividends are paid to the owner-occupier or when investments in other activities are made, i.e. a scheme far worse than the European model. In addition to European tonnage taxes, the liquidation of property taxes is important in order to facilitate growth and value creation in Norway. Several and more countries have already abolished this tax. So it's important that we do the same thing in Norway. If we want Norwegian shipping in Norway also in the future, we must introduce the European tonnage tax model in Norway as quickly as possible, and we must also start the liquidation of the strange wealth tax. I think the Norwegian government has to show some action. It's okay enough that the Council of State indicates that it's taking a lot of action that's right, sensible and good. But we don't have to sleep on that. Now we also have to take the next grips, so that we can put our heads together. We have the knowledge we need, and then it's just action it's on. Finally, I would also like to underline that this is not in any way to give a gift package to the riders. In any case, the riders will make good money, whether they're in Norway or whether they're flagging out and moving out. This is inconclusive to retain competences and capital in Norway, so that Norwegian shipping can spread positive ringing effects in society, as has been the case in previous generations. If we make the right decisions and decisions now, Norwegian shipping will also have positive effects on society in the next generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e609	Honor the representative of Asmyhr, who has raised such an important and topical issue for debate. I represent a state and a district where the maritime industry has long and very strong traditions. The maritime environment in More and Romesdal has, over the years, established a strong maritime cluster, which contributes to the creation of new district jobs and provides positive ring-effects to the industry in general in the region. Despite the failure of new orders and major shifts in the period 2001–03, we have witnessed very positive developments in the industry in general and in the shipbuilding and offshore industries in particular since 2004 — when it really took off during the co-operation administration — and until now. An order reserve in the yard industry of approx. 50 billion kroner, according to the yard conference which was in Ålesund just, means work for four to five years ahead of time, but it also means a great challenge in terms of labour. The maritime industries, including Norwegian shipping, contribute both directly and indirectly to large value creation in District Norway. The industry is global and highly competitive, and the demand for qualified seafarers in Norway is high. It is therefore important that policy action is taken as soon as possible to ensure a competitive framework for future growth and development of the maritime industry. Norwegian seafarers are a significant resource for their shipowners and contribute to the further development of maritime competence. Therefore, the right considers that it is important to have mechanisms that stimulate shipping companies to have Norwegian seafarers in key positions. We know that the recruitment situation in the fishing fleet is difficult due to a tight labour market in general and net pay arrangements in shipping in particular. In addition, fishing fleets have become less profitable due to the government's restructuring of the fisheries policy in the last year. The industry has difficulty offering competitive conditions in meeting, inter alia: a strongly increasing offshore fleet with net pay arrangements. Coastal freight fleets also face major challenges of recruitment as a result of a tight labour market and small margins in addition to strong competition from ships registered in foreign ship registers, competitors with a high level of crew with foreign working conditions. The right-hand model of competence for seafarers' employment involves a net pay scheme for maritime-trained ratings in the NIS and NOR registers. The model implies that all offshore ratings flagged in NOR are covered by the model of competence. With the Right model, Norwegian crews with maritime competence in NIS will also come out better than with the Government’s proposal with reimbursement scheme only. Important measures to remedy the situation consider that the Right would be to amend the regulations, so that vessels currently flying the flag of the Norwegian International Ship Register (NIS) can also sail along the Norwegian coast between Norwegian ports and the socket. Therefore, yesterday, on the right, a Document No was presented. Eight proposals to remove the area limitations in NIS. Such a suspension will improve the competitiveness of the Norwegian shipping industry in relation to foreign shipping companies which are currently favoured by being able to operate between Norwegian coastal ports and to and from Norwegian ports. The level of taxation is central to localisation decisions and to the continued ownership and operation of the shipping industry from Norway. Today's shipping tax system has expired, and it is time for a shipping tax system that is in line with the EU's. Six months ago, the right reduced its own maritime policy sample which, in the autumn, presented concrete proposals to bring the framework conditions for Norwegian shipping into line with the EU. The right has with wonder recorded that the Government does not specify any time or objective for any new company tax system. Therefore, during the budgetary procedure, the right has proposed that the Government submit to the Stortinget, by the latest in the revised national budget for 2007, proposals for the content of a new tonnage tax system, which should be applicable as soon as possible and by 1 January 2008 at the latest. The right considers that a new company tax system should be modelled on and fully competitive with the EU tonnage tax systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e641	Interpellant Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr of the Progress Party is concerned. He fears that Norway, which has traditionally been one of the world's largest maritime nations, is now slowing down, using the terminology that fits well with today's theme. I think there's reason to note the interpellant's concern a little bit down. First of all, because we have a government that already gives this industry considerable attention. In Soria Moria it is stated that the Government will develop national strategies in the economic areas that Norway has competence or special advantage. The maritime sector is referred to as such and the Council of State has just established that a number of measures are in place that will strengthen and further develop the maritime industry, including: in the case of a significant investment in research and development. There is a policy that SV fully supports. Secondly, interpellant concerns are worth noting because you know that Norwegian shipping is already one of the most subsidized industries we have. Compared to others, shipping has very special framework conditions. If we add together the tax rebates to the government budget payments, each job in the industry was subsidised by around DKr 180 000, based on an estimate made by Today's Business in 2004. That's where we see the list that shipping saves $1,200 million. kr because they pay tonnage tax instead of ordinary taxes. They save 800 million. kr for exemptions from environmental taxes on CO2 and SO2, they save 340 million. kr via the seafarer’s deduction and 1330 mill. kr as a result of net salaries and various reimbursement schemes for employees of ferries and offshore vessels. It adds up to between NOK 3 and 4 billion of 17 000 seafarers. In addition, they have shore-based jobs. If we take that into account, every job in this industry is subsidised by around 160,000 kroner, and then we've kept the tax-free sales and the benefits that it brings out. I believe that the red-green government has been predictable and sensible in its handling of the maritime sector. If the industry is lagging behind now, you can ask yourself whether it is due to a lack of goodwill and subsidies, or whether it is due to a lack of demarcation. It must be allowed to ask the interpellant what justifies the large exposure of his party to even more public crowns into a sector that is already heavily supported. In the 2007 alternative budget of the Progress Party, they propose to increase aid to Norwegian shipping companies by 60 million. kr in addition to what the Government is already doing. Support for the maritime sector is already higher than support for agriculture, which the Progress Party continues to support and proposes to cut. Then I allow myself to ask: what is that interpellant mean we get back from the maritime industry, which is twice as valuable as what Norwegian agriculture represents? Or what makes the maritime sector more edible for the Advance Party than agricultural production does? Where does the interpellant think the boundary goes for what the industry is responsible for getting to, up against what the state is responsible for settling in? In short, what does the interpellant mean by the participation in this world championship, which he used as a name, is going to cost us? What are the Norwegian people going to pay to keep the shipping companies' loyalty to the Norwegian flag? Finally, I'm almost touched to see the warm concern of the Norwegian shipping company's Advance Party, and clapping on the shoulder that's being handed out to someone who makes significant sums – it's probably the ones that have the greatest assets. I mean, there's a boundary between clapping on the shoulder and being in each other's pockets. I would therefore like to ask the interpellant to confirm that the party's warm and long-term commitment to the maritime sector, such as, among other things. has emerged in the debate today, which has nothing to do with the fact that last year the Progress Party received hundreds of thousands of dollars in party support from Norwegian shipping companies, that the Norwegian maritime sector is the largest private contributor of the Progress Party, and that of the four largest financial support players, there are three shipping companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e664	In the beginning, I guess I'm a little uncertain as to whether the last post we now heard is particularly pleasing to those who depend on a significant maritime sector in the future. It might be more important than what I want to characterize as a little bit of cheap points at the expense of other parties, when we discuss a matter as important as we do now. There is an industry with heavy and long traditions interpellant four attentions today. That's really why, not least because we still want a strong maritime industry in the future. It is an important issue also for the Christian People's Party, as for most other parties in this Chamber. Whether we've lost ground or not in this sector, you can ask yourself. In any case, the Norwegian shipping fleet consists of at the top of 1,700 ships, according to the Shipowners' Federation. Various studies indicate a total fleet of between 40 and 55 million deadweight tons, depending on how to define some tankers in NIS as Norwegian or non-Norwegian. Anyway, we've been, we are, and we should be one of the major shipping nations in the world. But more important than talking about national eyelashes, it is well to discuss the future of the industry, and the interaction between industry and government in order to ensure competitiveness in the future. There may be a risk that such a debate is too much about different government grant schemes and tax regimes, although there are absolutely important parameters there too. The starting point for any creation of value is the human beings themselves, and the competence they possess. Here we have a unique competitive advantage to take care of in Norway. We are one of a few countries with a complete maritime-industrial environment. The environment is often defined as a cluster or a network of maritime enterprises, covering everything from maritime transport to marine equipment, shipbuilding, mediation, financing, classification, research and maritime petroleum activities. That's a good and critically necessary starting point here. Such a base of competence has been, and is, the main prerequisite for competitiveness in the future. Norwegian business life, of which shipping is an important part, does not consist of typical low-cost producers. The value creation comes through the provision of competence. For this reason, the framework conditions for research must also be good, primarily in the direction of the enterprises themselves. Then the Government's contribution to the budget for tightening up the tax FUNN is not good news. Nor do we avoid the owners of the shipping industry assessing the tax conditions when the location of the business is determined. The previous government set up an expert committee which has assessed how the future shipping tax should be designed. The government has now assessed the input into the consultation round on the suspension of the Shipbuilding Tax Committee for six months. Now we think from the Christian People's Party that it is time to lift flags in government offices and tell them where you want to go. With a majority government that apparently wants to agree on most, we should expect that we now got an answer soon. The industry deserves to know at least when the Government plans to provide such a tax system to the Storting. Perhaps the Minister can give an answer to that today? For its part, the Christian People's Party would stress that the tax system itself must be based on the tonnage tax system practised in the EU. We will also make it a prerequisite that the total tax burden on industry must be competitive in international terms. It is not difficult to agree with the Workers' Party's fiscal spokesman when, in the evening post of 23 November, he calls for the EU to adjust the tax system for shipping companies in order to make it consistent with the ordinary corporate tax system. But now the reality is that the tonnage tax system in the EU is different. The reality is that the shipping industry is global and therefore also mobile. If we want shipping activities based in Norway, and I think most people want that, there are obviously clear limits to how much greater the tax burden we can have in Norway. Then I find it a little pointless to talk about rich shipowners. What we are talking about here are ordinary workers and whether they should still be able to work in Norway, given that we have a strong maritime industry in the future. So the government should act, not for the opposition, but for the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e681	The Soria-Moria Declaration sets out a strategy for growth and more jobs in maritime industries. A lot of moments are going to enter a health care unit. We have great expectations for MARUT, and we need a competitive NIS. Much has been said in this debate about our complete maritime clusters, significant ringing, quality shipping and competence-based jobs across the country, not least in the districts. However, there is no doubt that the relevant element of the maritime industry is the fleet and the seafarers' competence. It is this that must be the foundation of a red-green maritime strategy. Important stones are already in place. The net pay arrangements for Norwegian seafarers were among the first cases taken into account by the Government. The Bondevik II government’s exit greeting to the industry was a proposal to remove absolutely all arrangements for the employment of Norwegian seafarers. The size has now agreed that the net pay arrangements will cover all Norwegian seafarers on NOR registered ships in competitively scheduled voyages. In the fall, we're entering the Hurtigruta. The industry feels that a prudent system is in place to allow international competition with Norwegian seafarers on board. The results have not been too late to wait. A negative trend in employment and recruitment has been replaced by optimism and growth. Construction activity is large, not least within the offshore fleet. Offshore industries have good markets. Yes, but the point is that the growth is with Norwegian seafarers on board. During the turbulence around the regimes for seafarers in 2002–03, there was no growth in the number of Norwegian positions in this industry. After two years of operation, the offshore industry only had 20 pst in the Haugaland-Sunnhordland area. several Norwegian settings. There is a basis for good access to practical maritime competence, depending on the industry as a whole. Some would argue that the system has seen the fishing in a pinch. It is a composite image. Maritime organisations, which organise employees in both shipping and fishing, have not joined this criticism. Others disagree that we want to ensure the competence of a special group of workers in a situation where there is a shortage of labour at national level. Let me remind you that well-grown people who have lived half a professional life at sea do not move to the city to become nurses if they have to go ashore. The net pay scheme requires that hirer layers within the scheme contribute to the development of skills in the industry. We see a marked increase in the number of training options at sea. The contribution of the Norwegian Maritime Competence Foundation to training settings is important, not only for young seafarers and the fleets investing in their competences, but also for the marine environment on land. Again: The ringing effects are great. Norwegian seafarers have been given competitive and far-reaching conditions. Reiarlaga’s competitive position vis-à-vis the rest of Europe is still unclear. At the time of the entry into force of the regulation in 1996, on the initiative of the Central Party, the industry became fully competitive in a European context. What has happened later is well known. While Europe has otherwise been offensive, the Norwegian system has been subject to constant deterioration – to use its own language: its ‘acquired’. Over a five-year period, there has been a decline of more than 150 ships in the Norwegian flag fleet, while world fleet and European shipping have been growing. Norwegian reiar layers are growing, but the growth is happening outside. The industry needs clarification. Saka's been well prepared. The Reiarlag tax selection is fragmented in its recommendations: two clear options for driving – a exit strategy and a strategy for Norway to continue to have a strong maritime industry. Norway must never be allowed the world's most favourable naval taxation. Then we're on a wild path. But it's probably hard to get out of the rules that otherwise apply today in our neighbouring countries in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e703	Also, I want to join those who have given honor to the interpellant in order to raise a matter as important as the one we are discussing today. Norway has been and is still a maritime power. With a modest share of the world's population and a hundred percent of global trade, we are now in control of nearly a tenth of the world's total trade tonnage. Norway is one of the world's largest shipping nations, with strong and partly dominant positions within a wide range of other maritime activities. As the interpellant points out, Norway has long maritime traditions. Maritime industries employ nearly 100,000 people and create great values. We also control the world's second largest offshore fleet, and like others, there is a large supply of orders to Norwegian shipyards – contracts for 24 billion kroner as far this year and order books that, in sum, amount to over 50 billion kroner. This is a sharp contrast to the forecasts that existed four to five years ago, when many in the industry predicted a dark future. But thanks to high skills, thanks to adaptability, strong business clusters, and the commitment to research and innovation that the central platform has succeeded in turning back the negative trend that was for some time. Major changes in the global pattern of trade, growth in the world economy and the ever need for a comprehensive upgrade and renewal of the world fleet will also create significant opportunities for increased value creation and employment in Norwegian maritime activities in the years to come — both at sea and on land. This is particularly evident in many jobs, in increased competence in districts and in different counties, not least along the coast. At the same time, there is an increased demand for maritime competence and an increased market for shipping companies and maritime companies. At the same time, our home maritime environment shows signs of something I feel negative, namely that key actors are locating new and existing activities abroad. This means that the maritime environment and the growth of value creation and jobs are shifting towards the rest of the world. Denmark is becoming the Nordic Maritime Headquarters, and a host of Norwegian companies are now present in Singapore. Perhaps the most important industrial policy challenge facing us as a nation will be to reduce oil dependence over time, to compensate for the long-term loss of activities in the oil and gas sector, and to create a broader and more varied base for value creation in the competitive part of business. There is no doubt that the maritime environment can make a major and important contribution to that process. It's because of the knowledge and expertise that's there. In this context, it is important for authorities to organise research and mechanisms to stimulate research and development. The good position we have must be actively preserved, it must be strengthened and developed. Then we're not going to avoid having a profitable business. All economic operators depend on framework conditions — their predictability and stability. My conclusion is that there are some necessities that need to be in place if we are to have an expected, desired development in this sector, namely a stable, predictable and positive tax and industrial policy, a powerful knowledge environment, an offensive commitment to research and a further commitment where we are best: high-technology and environmentally friendly solutions. The Council of State mentioned here instead that a lot has changed since the government change in terms of the maritime industry. In this respect, I must say that I fully agree with the representative of Gullvåg, who says that this industry is also very dependent on things other than the government that governs the country. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e724	The President must ask the representatives to stick to the stated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e727	The fact that Norway has a long maritime history has largely contributed to shaping much of the business we have in the country today. It would be quite unhistorical of us as the premiscuous supplier of framework conditions to put us in such a situation that our shipping companies are flagging their business out of the country. At a time when regional policy is mentioned in every other sentence, we should bear in mind that many of the maritime clusters that are heavily dependent on good and close cooperation with the shipping industry are part of parts of the country that may not have the big prerequisites for other types of business. We're actually taking a big chance when we're doubting a particular Norwegian tax level towards an industry that, to those degrees, is international and can be driven from any corner of the world. Because there is little doubt that if we had not had Norwegian shipping companies, headquartered in Norway, the yard situation would look different today from what it actually does. We should not go back far until we can recall reasonably gloomy prospects for Norwegian shipyards. Instead, today we experience that we own many competent and competitive companies, which are most closely involved in the tearing development of shipbuilding. The combination of hull production in low-cost and finishing in Norway has proved to be a good solution for the high-cost country we are actually. The ability to maintain a role in shipbuilding is also important when we look at the significant share of Norwegian equipment suppliers in the shipbuilding industry. These are equipment that is highly specialised, technologically advanced and highly retarded on the world market. It is shown by the fact that the equipment industry has an export share of 65 pst. And what's so exciting about this industry is that much of the development that is taking place in leading Norwegian trade unions leads to attractive goods in world trade. Everything from environmental technology to navigation, from design to communication. While we can thank the shipping industry for being the basis for the Norwegian shipbuilding industry, we should not forget the importance this has had for the further development of the industry that has led us to become technological drivers within a wide range of other maritime industries. The experience that we gradually built up around the yard industry is the basis for the tearing technology development we have seen in the offshore industry. I am personally not in doubt, it would not have been for the marine food cluster that we already had when the oil was discovered, we would have been spectators of the technological developments that are taking place in this area. Looking at the exciting future that lies within the maritime industry, I think the red-greens have a far too passive attitude to the present and future challenges the industry faces. The last Minister of Industry was very much in favour of the EU Green Paper and pointed to the importance of an overall approach in this area. That's all right, but we don't have to look out of the country to find complete plans to underpin our political work. Several major messages have had a comprehensive review of the challenges facing maritime industry, but what is missing is an active feed for these communications, translated into concrete proposals. Unfortunately, it doesn't seem like the red-greens can do it. After hearing SV's posts, I fear the path to consensus within the government parties is terribly long. Looking at the evolution of world trade, when you look at the rotation of product production from America/Europe to Southeast Asia, you can see the need for increased volume of transport and transport distances. We have the choice of looking at this development or participating and taking advantage of it. We can ensure that Norwegian companies, from shipping companies, shipyards, technology companies, service providers and financial environments, can benefit from this development if we provide good Norwegian framework conditions, such as: means that we keep the shipping companies in Norwegian ownership, with head office in Norway. Having Norwegian shipping companies headquartered in Norway is of great importance in the care of the maritime business environments that in many areas are world leaders in their special fields. It is therefore important that we offer the shipping industry a European model tax. It is just such a model that can ensure that we can maintain a Norwegian shipping industry, and a maritime industry that can compete with the best in the world. And with an offensive industrial policy in this area, instead of fear of flagging out, we may be attracted to foreign shipping companies that will help to further develop new maritime feeding clusters along our coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e742	First I want to give tribute to Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr for addressing such an important theme for the country. It is timely and deserving. I'm not going to go into any kind of lines to others who have come up with things that show disagreement within this field. I just want to remind the Council of State that although it is gratifying that the current government is adding to the budget in this sector, it should not be overlooked that during the last government period, the government budget appropriations were tripled, from just over 300 million. NOK 1 billion, for this sector. It's still moving forward here, even though we have a little bit of different angles. My party group, the representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, presented in his statement the work of the Right Maritime Committee and the proposals we have made on that basis, as well as the shipping tax in the budget and through a document No. Yesterday's 8th proposals on the area limitations of NIS. The goal must be not just that we're hanging out with, but that we're still a leading maritime nation with strength throughout the cluster. To that end, tools are needed. There is a broad consensus here that the most important instrument is a competitive economic environment, the key being EU conditions and tax conditions. I hope that the Government will also come, in line with several of us, that it is the minority's proposal in the Shipbuilding Tax Committee that should be taken into account. Secondly, we must continue to be the leaders in building maritime competence – for shipping itself, but also for sprinkling all over the cluster. And how do we get that? Well, first of all, recruitment needs to be ensured. It seems to be the big problem – not that there are not interesting jobs here with significant further development potential, but it is competition for this workforce that in our domestic waters makes the fishing fleet, the freight fleet and the offshore fleet the competitors of the same sparing crews and new acquisitions of young people. That means having good conditions in addition to interesting jobs. For the country’s overall interests, it is important to use new Norwegian labour force for what is most important. In this context, some have to go to the fisheries and some, perhaps especially the trained crews, to the fleet. Today, vessels operating between Norwegian ports and operating between Norwegian port and socket are required to be flagged in NOR or in a foreign register. NIS is not allowed to operate in this area. We believe that to be a paradox. It has, among other things, This is due to the fact that today is approx. 2/3 of all that goes along the coast, transported on foreign keel and not in Norwegian keel. The difference between NIS and NOR is that NOR requires Norwegian working conditions for all employees, while NIS allows the working conditions of the home country to be used. By allowing NIS vessels to operate in Norwegian waters, we will be able to experience increased flagging into Norwegian registers, and this could ease the pressure on the fishing fleet by giving Norwegian offshore shipping companies a larger recruitment base than Norway alone. The right-hand position on the model of competence for Norwegian seafarers is established, i.e. that we want a net payroll scheme for the maritime-trained team in NIS and in NOR, and we want net pay for the entire offshore crew, whether they're flagged in NOR or in NIS. The offshore is a modern adventure and an example that Norwegian maritime clusters are world-leading technological and competence. The shipping company Eidesvik on Bømlo is one of the examples of new mining activities, including in environmentally conscious technology, with the transition to first gas-powered and now fuel cell-powered offshore vessel testing. The former head of the shipping company, now the late Lauritz Eidesvik, who had both sailed as a fisherman and since built up his own fleet, visited me in the autumn of 1995, one week before I took over as rapporteur in the shipping town of Haugesund. He explained how vital it will be for the industry to recruit skilled, interested and motivated young people. Then he leaned over the table, then squandered at me and said, "For that you will know, Vallersnes, that we shall have them like the bright" or the eyes on." It has followed me a little since, and told me something about the attitudes that have been with and led that very business, offshore, up to being completely world-leading. The various proposals on the right are a contribution to finding long-term and – I hope – cross-policy arrangements that ensure Norwegian maritime activities remain a leading position at all seas, but where the domestic waters must always be the basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e765	Norway has a tradition of being good at shipping. It was supposed to be just missing, many say, you have such a long coast. Oh no, that's probably a little bit further. That we're good is also to those degrees depending on good social organization, skilled seafarers and long-term ownership environments. I can underline the example of Lauritz Eidesvik. He had a key role, much greater than perhaps many are aware of, in the introduction of the shipping tax system in 1996. At that time the Central Party was the key party to facilitate the shipping tax, with zero tax on shipping and 28 pst. dividend tax for shipowners. It is important that dividends are taxed against the owner through that tax scheme. We broke out with nutrition neutrality. I remember well the comments in Today's Business, former Norway's Trade and Maritime Magazine, which, on an ideological basis, were strongly opposed to the shipping tax system. I well remember the reaction in an early phase from the Right Per-Christian Foss, which was strongly opposed to the shipwreck tax system. It was socio-economic welfare theory that was behind the stand on resistance to own shipping estimates. And this business neutrality point of view understood the Center Party would be very devastating for Norwegian shipping when we saw around us what was developing. We gradually understood that someone was willing to run the welfare theory so far that we had to ask the counter-question: what exactly do we want with Norway? What is Norway without shipping? Today, many professional groups outside shipping are asking the same question when a person feels that one's industry, which has comparative advantages in Norway, is being treated: what changes are necessary to enable it to further develop its advantages? The centre party’s work on shipping and shipping tax has been based for a long time on social contract thinking, i.e. international competitive framework conditions combined with legislation that ensures head office – and maximum activity from shipping companies – in Norway. An increasing proportion of the Norwegian fleet and associated activities are currently being established outside Norway. This trend has escalated in the last few years. There is currently a very high rate of growth and contracting activities in the industry, but the predominantly part of new ships and new activities are being established outside Norway. Thus, there are no ring-fences in the form of increased value creation, innovation and strengthened market position internationally that would otherwise benefit the maritime industry. As mentioned here, we have had a public selection under the direction of Professor Guttorm Schelderup, who delivered the deadline of 7 March this year. The approach is divided into its recommendations regarding the future business environment. However, an overall sample determines that European tax conditions are a prerequisite for maintaining Norwegian shipping. The attitude has been heard and a wide range of instances have been expressed. In order for a company to choose to enter into a new, competitive Norwegian shipping tax regime when the old one is wound up, it is essential that the trust in the new system is not undermined by the fact that the shipping companies experience unfair treatment in the winding-up of the old one, for today, the large amount of tax credits is processed. In the view of the Central Party, the European model must be introduced, but two steps must form the basis for further development of shipping activities in Norway in order to have the best societal impact. Firstly, the loss of current tax access to the public overcompensation must be compensated for by the transition to new shipping tax. In the view of the Centre Party, this could be that ten years of bonding on the tax credits are combined with that 10 pst. the credit is taxed over 10 years. This will generate an estimated tax intake of between 100 and 150 million. kr annually, i.e. a net proceeds increase. A reasonable period of fiscal credit commitment gives, in sum, a good balance between the right and the obligation to continue operating in Norway. Secondly, there must be increased requirements for Norwegian content in the establishment. The introduction of a European tax may choose to strengthen the requirements for strategic and commercial operations to be carried out by Norway and to continue the current flag requirements. This can be defined as a form of social contract. The centre party will stress the need for a clarification of obligations and rights in the future tax regime. We have a fairly good political tradition for this balance. Many shipping companies depend on a clarification within a reasonable time. Decisions on Norwegian or foreign registration are taken on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e786	Initially, I would like to thank the Stortinget and the Council of State for a very good debate. There has been no world championship here in the hall today, but at least there has been a big championship in relation to being the most positive of shipping. That's very good. One of the points of this debate was to clarify what Stortinget now thinks about shipping policy, and what the Government intends to do. So the Council of State points out that the previous government's shipping policy was not good, and that the Progress Party backed up on the previous government. The Council of State is quite right in saying that the policy of the previous government was not something to boast of, but it also created a great deal of tension between the Progress Party and the previous government. [[Kielland Asmyhr]] I'm glad so many have pointed out the importance of following up the maritime Green Paper. I would like to comment on some of the issues that have been raised in the debate. The representative Steinar Gullvåg may not have followed very well under my post when he says that I had a negative starting point. I just showed that the maritime industries are doing well, but Norway as a nation is losing ground internationally. It's a fact. I get worried when I hear the article from the representative Kvalvik from SV. It is clear that the government council here has a far greater task of convincing its own government partner about the importance of a good shipping policy than he has of convincing the rest of the Stortinget. It is very worrying when we know that SV is sitting with the Minister of Finance and it is the Ministry of Finance that is going to do something about shipping taxes. It is clear that if the Minister of Finance agrees with his own industrial policy spokeswoman here in Stortingen in this, I think the Minister of Industry has to talk to his government colleague from SV fairly quickly. Governments also pointed out in their statement that Hurtigruta has received a net pay scheme. That's very good. But I have to remind you that it was the Progress Party that was driving that case, and that the Government first claimed that this was contrary to the EEA Agreement. It didn't turn out to be right. Due to the fact that the Progress Party took up this matter, Hurtigruta now has a net pay regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e807	As I have said before, I agree with those who have underlined the importance of this sector during the debate, and I am pleased that there is such a broad consensus that we should bet on the maritime sector in Norway. When the interpellant says that there has been a major championship in being the most successful in the shipping industry, it is at least very pleasant for a government council responsible for this area – when it is evident that in the case of government championships in active maritime policy, the current government has won over the previous government. We must say that it is good for the industry that those who were in government are now in opposition, because then they are for a more active maritime policy, which otherwise the sitting government leads. This should be reassuring for the maritime sector. One of the starting points for this is the conscious attitude that business neutrality has disappeared. One of the basic elements of the industrial policy platform for the maritime sector is that this government has focused on some selected areas. Maritime sector is one of them. It was just nutrition neutrality that was the reason for, among other things. the proposal of the previous government to weaken the net pay scheme, such as: would have led to the ferry companies flying out. For our part, it is right to think that when the Swedish and Danish have that system, it is the basis of comparison and the basis of competition for this industry, and that is what we have to compete with in terms of framework conditions. So we give a level playing field, but based on the specific situation of the individual industries. Then I might be a little surprised at the Right approach in relation to allowing NIS ships in shipping on the coast, not least on the basis that the Right is usually a party that has great respect for the EEA Agreement. In the context of the conclusion of the EEA Agreement, an agreement has been reached between Norway and the EU on the NIS fleet, namely that they are not to be carried in the area currently requested by the Right. There is at least one complicating factor in relation to the proposal now presented by the Right. When we're betting on the maritime sector, we're going to use all the instruments in the same direction. That's why we use the maritime sector as a focus of innovation. That is why we are now increasing research funds in the areas of maritime research. That's why we're making sure to get innovation funds related to the advanced industry in Norway that delivers advanced equipment to this sector. When Kielland Asmyhr first said that we should look at the shipping policy in «Det Blå Denmark», I would say that for shipping policy it is excellent with a red-green alternative, as we have in Norway. And when the interpellant first said, that now it has to be traded, I can confirm: now it is traded!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e830	That's good to hear. The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e850	The starting point for the interpellation is that the Council of Europe today marks the start of a pan-European, three-year campaign against violence against women, with a special focus on domestic violence. The aim of the Council of Europe is to defend human rights, democracy and the rule of law. The work of the Council of Europe is to coordinate the social and legal actions of the Member States through common European agreements. Norway was one of ten Western European countries that established the Council of Europe in 1949. That is why we also have a special obligation to follow up the decisions taken by the organisation. The Council of Europe is today a Convention-based organisation with 46 member countries and 800 million. residents. The Council of Europe notes that domestic violence against women and violence is a clear violation of human rights. This form of violence is the most widespread form of violation of human rights that exists. This also applies in Norway. The barriers occur in all Member States, across borders, age groups, races, family types and social environments. Many unfortunately suggest that the frequency of such violations of human rights is actually increasing. All Member States of the Council of Europe have therefore been asked by unanimous decisions of the assembly of parliamentarians to engage at the highest political level in the pan-European campaign against home-based violence, inter alia. by putting the issue on the agenda of all European parliaments today, 24 November 2006. On 27 November, the action was marked by a major international conference in Madrid, in which Grand President Thorbjørn Jagland greeted the action on behalf of the Norwegian Grand Prix. The campaign leadership of the Council of Europe cooperates closely with the UN Special Rapporteur in the field of violence against women. The UN General Assembly adopted the Declaration on combating violence against women in December 2003. In addition, the UN marks its annual International ‘Stop violence against women’ day tomorrow, 25 November. The European Court of Human Rights stresses that the Convention on Human Rights obliges Member States, i.e. to adopt and implement national laws ensuring respect for human rights. This obligation also applies in the relationship between individuals. The Court thus states that when women are subjected to domestic violence, this is not a private matter, but a social matter to which the authorities are obliged to respond. But our obligations go beyond that. Nearly more important than reacting afterwards are the obligations that Member States have to ensure that human rights violations do not occur. It's about prevention. It's demanding, but absolutely necessary. The Council of Europe Ministerial Committee, where Norway is represented by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, adopted in June this year a call for action plans to be drawn up by all Member States and specific measures to prevent and combat violence against women. Countries were also asked to report results achieved at the end of the campaign in 2008. The European Parliaments are invited here to play a role as drivers in their work by putting the matter on the agenda both in plenary and in the public debate. That is good and good, but despite the fact that the theme has been on the agenda for decades, both nationally and internationally, there are unfortunately few signs of improvement to track. The extent is also uncertain, but we know something. Since 1995, several Member States of the Council of Europe have been monitoring violence against women. They show that between 20 and 25 pst. all women have been subjected to physical violence at least once in their adult life. More than 10 pst. has experienced sexual violence. Overgrowths are men in close proximity, mainly partners or former partners. Between 12 and 15 pst. are victims of persistent physical, mental and sexual abuse in the home of their own partner, someone with death as an exit. Well, it's so scary that the share that's been subjected to regular mistreatment by the former partners is even higher. The violence doesn't even end even if the women break out of the relationship. The numbers are high, but they're still estimated to be even higher. The Norwegian figures are equally bleak: from the Ministry of Justice's own violence measurement one week in June 2005, it appears that in the measuring week there were more than 1 000 requests from women who experienced violence in close relations. In the same week, 2,000 children were affected by violence and threats from people they have close ties to. Almost 85 pst. by the perpetrators of violence were men. In almost 60 pst. Of the cases, there was physical violence, while threats and other forms of mental abuse occurred in almost half of the cases. Drip in close relationships is the most brutal form of family violence. 29 deaths were committed in Norway in 2005, nine of them by spouses/partners or former spouses/partners. A nationwide NIBR survey published in 2005 confirms and deepens the ministry’s own figures: it shows that one in 12 women has experienced severe violence by a partner, that one in 50 men have experienced the same, and that every fourth woman and every five men have been in proportion to violence or threats of violence. These are dramatic numbers. Reports of violence in close relations are increasing from 3,890 reviews in 2003 to 4,348 in 2005. There may be greater transparency and less loss of violence in couples today than a few years ago, but the Council of Europe is reporting an increase in the incidence in countries surveying. There is a clear need for better numerical material to enable effective instruments to be put in place. On behalf of the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, the Norwegian Institute for Research on Growth, Welfare and Ageing shall carry out a screening of sexual abuse against children. The question is whether we do not also need better data bases to monitor the development of violence against women over time. Without good knowledge, it's hard to see if the measures we put in actually work. The aim of the Council of Europe's campaign is to follow the progress made in the fight against violence over time in the 46 Member States. Hopefully that's the progress we're talking about. The tools are to raise awareness of the fact that this is a violation of human rights that everyone needs to engage in, to make the Member States intensify their efforts and to increase the use of resources against violence against women by means of binding action plans. These are recommended to include both legal and policy instruments, support for and protection of victims, data collection and awareness-raising activities, which also involve active participation by men. This is not just a question of women, but a social problem that also affects the quality of life of future generations. The issue has been high on the political agenda for a long time, including here in Norway. There have been many public investigations, reports and reports. One of the central ones, NOU 2003:31 The right to life without violence, thus led to the action plan against violence in close relations, an action plan lasting from 2004 to 2007. A permanent working group chaired by the Ministry of Justice is established. Work is cross-sectoral and covers many themes, such as health services, social policy instruments, equality issues and action against crime. The action plan has been active since 2004 and lasts until next year. The question for the Minister of Justice is: what has been done so far, and what can still be done, to combat domestic violence in Norway? And I have an additional question. The Council of Europe's campaign goes beyond the time frame of the Norwegian action plan and calls for feedback on results at the end of the campaign, while there is probably also a expectation that the campaign will lead to a sustained strengthening of efforts in the Member States and, in particular, the expectation that this will produce results in the form of reduced violence and thus a strong improvement in respect of human rights in the European countries. The supplementary question is therefore: will the Council of State contribute to Norway, as a Member State, ending up on the Council of Europe's campaign against violence against women, including the fight against domestic violence?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e888	The answer to the clear questions of the interpellant is yes. I thank you for the interpellation and for the initiative that has been taken on a cross-political basis in the Storting today. If it had been so that the violence that happens at home with people, the violence that happens between mother and father, and the one that happens between parents and children, had received as much attention in Norwegian media and in Norwegian political debates as we see that crime sometimes gets into society, then it would probably have been full of people outside the Stortinge today and demonstrated. It's a large number we're already holding, which shows that we're facing a kind of violence and assault, which is practically missing both in terms of scale and in terms of the way the violence affects. This violence is primarily affected by three elements. Firstly, we are facing a double vulnerability. The children and women affected in close relationships are twice vulnerable, because they are also subject to a very high level of trust from one of their closest relatives in addition to the actual physical use of violence. The second is that you face a kind of violence and assault that means you don't have a safe place to go. Some of us may feel insecure when we move out in the streets at night, but at least we know that we can go home, close the door and feel safe on the way. This type of violence excludes such safe refuges. The third thing that definitely requires more attention to this type of violence crime is that the crime of violence is far on the way from the public criminal justice system and the auxiliaries. There's a lot of reasons for that. It's hard to report what you're exposed to. There are many kinds of mechanisms in this, but it just makes the need for effort the bigger. Domestic violence is a major global phenomenon and therefore poses a serious social problem. Violence taking place within the home's four walls is, as the interpellant also said, no private matter, but a public matter to be combated with the same intensity as other serious crime. This government is serious about the efforts to combat violence in close relations. Violence against women and children in close relationships is an expression of gross violations of human rights, which is a national and international task to combat. This will not be achieved without such international cooperation as, among other things. The Council of Europe outlines. I am therefore very pleased with this opportunity to discuss this serious social problem. In recent years, a number of measures to combat domestic violence have been implemented by various governments. There is little party policy in these challenges, fortunately. It greatly enhances the opportunities for effective action and policy decisions. The effort has been anchored in the Action Plans on Violence against Women, from 2000–03 and Violence in Close Relations, from 2004–2007. The 30 actions described in the last action plan are divided into the following four main objectives: 1st@item: inlistbox The cooperation competence and knowledge of the auxiliaries shall be strengthened.2. Violence in close relationships shall be made visible and prevented by changes in attitude.3. Victims of violence in close relationships shall be provided with the necessary assistance and protection.4. The spiral of violence shall be broken by strengthening the provision of treatment to the perpetrators. It is too extensive to go into detail in relation to each action, but I now want to concentrate the article on the initiatives that the government that I represent has taken. Firstly, on 1 January 2006, a new upgraded criminal order against violence in close relations entered into force. The Penal Code § 219 has been significantly modernised and re-edited. The scope of the provision has been extended, inter alia: by also protecting divorced spouses, stepchildren and relatives in the straight-up line. There is no requirement for household membership, nor does it require that the injury must have been caused to the victim’s body or soul. It is the perpetrator’s long-standing terrorisation and abuse of the related who constitutes the culprit of the act. While § 219 was most often used in conjunction with the general provisions of the Penal Code on personal injury, a new § 219 as a general rule is to be used only in the case of family violence. The sentence is therefore raised from two to three years. Serious cases are punishable by imprisonment for up to six years. From the same date, Section 33 of the Criminal Code was amended to replace the rule on a restraining order by a rule on a restraining order. The aim is to protect offended persons and others affected, in particular in cases of violence and sexual offences, from any unwanted attention from the perpetrator. Attention will often, but not necessarily, take the form of daunting or distressing behaviour or other reckless behaviour. Paragraph 33 of the Penal Code previously opened only to prohibit physical residence in certain places. Often, there will be a need for protection that goes beyond this, for example: where there is reason to fear threatening or annoying letters, telephones, text messages via mobile phone or e-mail from the perpetrator. The new provision gives the courts the opportunity to put an end to such unwanted attention and not just physical approximations. Infringements of contact prohibitions may be punishable by fines or imprisonment for up to six months, or both, and may qualify for arrest and custody imprisonment. In this context, I would also like to mention that the Government is now aiming to initiate attempts at reverse violence alarm. It's closely related to just these rules. Many of the measures we take to protect women and children have resulted in the burden on those at risk. Government wants that to end. We want to make it clear that it is the perpetrator of assault and violence that must bear the burden of creating security for the future. Then I would also like to say a few words about the work that the Government is doing in relation to resolving several of the most serious issues, and then in particular rape. According to the Government's opinion, the percentage of information in the case of rape is too low. The problem is not primarily related to whether the penalties are too low or too - it is a challenge too - but that, in fact, well over 90 pst. Of the girls who are being raped today, there are no convictions. A sample, led by former State Secretary Rita Sletner, has therefore been reduced to look at elements in order to improve the percentage of information on rape. I am also convinced that the reform that the Government is now working on in connection with DNA registration will be very important to get the percentage of information in the event of such serious crimes. We also want a more coordinated and better offer to children, which is, of course, a highly vulnerable group, whether they are directly subjected to violence or they are witnesses to violence. These children are often subjected to very heavy loads. They are deprived of a childhood that any child is entitled to. These children must be seen, they must be protected, and they must be helped. It is my hope that the establishment of Barna’s house during 2007 will be a milestone in this work, a place where children can feel secure, where they will be given the help they need, where they can have an interview in a safe environment, so that they avoid being transported from place to place as a package in the meeting with professional authorities. The government also wants to establish a nationwide treatment provision for those who commit violence. There I would like to point out in particular what is in the budget both for the current year and for the next year, namely a strengthening of the operation of Alternatives to Violence. It's definitely important grip. But we're still just on our way. Much remains to be done to combat violence against women and children in close relationships. Together with the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, the Minister for Health and Care and the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, I am now working to develop further measures to combat violence in close relations. Let me at the tap – a little bit at the vision stage, I allow myself – mention some things that I think it is important to work against. I think it's definitely important that we get a better basis for monitoring the extent of violence in close relationships than what we have today. I believe that we need to improve the research and launch new studies in order to better map the scope. I also hope that the Government will have an impact on a much lower threshold, among other things. for children to report on violence and abuse. There has been a nationwide telephone launch. Other solutions may also be possible. I also want to look at the possibilities for a different organisation of this work in the police districts, look at the possibilities of establishing teams around the family violence coordinators that we already have. I want to look at the possibility of mobilising the population more easily to be able to say from when experiencing violence in close relationships, either with neighbors, friends or relatives. I believe it is certainly important that we now have a review of the Victim Compensation Act, so that it makes it better in relation to these issues. Here the Government will provide, in particular in connection with the follow-up work of the Committee of Inquiry. We have a lot of challenges. This debate can help the whole of society to see the seriousness of such a complex and major social problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e943	I would like to thank the Council of State for a clear and clear response. He has presented an offensive red-green policy. He has also underlined the cross-political nature of the matter by following up and strengthening the work started by the previous government with new instruments. I think that is very positive, precisely because we see that today's instruments are not enough to tackle the problem. I would like to highlight in particular that there are new measures to protect the victims: the ban on contact, which will also limit mental terror, the reverse alarm of violence, which places responsibility where it belongs, at the hands of the offender, and not least the prevention of providing treatment to the offenders. My own municipality, Drammen, has worked closely with Alternatives to Violence over the past ten years. The emergence of new measures and further action is signalled to ensure that Norwegian efforts respond to the Council of Europe's campaign in a rigorous manner, both in time and in the choice of instruments. Then I want to take advantage of the opportunity to bring another dimension into the debate. I said in my first post that all the bodies of the Council of Europe are involved in the campaign. This also applies to the congress of local and regional authorities, where Norway currently has the head, Halvdan Skard, who is also head of the KS. Congress stresses that local authorities have to deal with day-to-day consequences and that local strength is close to the population. This means that they can be offensive and effective where it really means something, both in mindmaking, prevention and protection. In this regard, I would like to draw up another study conducted by Amnesty International in March of this year, on what Norwegian municipalities do, and what help women who have been raped or raped get from their municipalities: 48 pst. of the municipalities do not know the extent of violence against women in their own municipality.10 pst. women in their municipality consider that they are not subjected to violence.70 p.m. has no political debate on violence against women.95 p.m. has no action plan against violence against women.17 p.m. does not offer crisis centre.64 pst. does not offer a reception of rape.99 pst. has no information about help offers in languages other than Norwegian. This is discouraging and a strong emphasis on achieving our objectives in the fight against violence against women, and we also need to get the municipalities on the track to far greater extent than is the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e978	I think it is good that the interpellant drew out the responsibilities of the municipalities here, first and foremost in order to focus on the fact that the responsibility lies on many teams. It is so fast to point to criminal law and the institutions of criminal law when we face these kinds of problems. There can often be a resting place for us in relation to focusing on this type of abuse, especially in relation to violence in close relationships. It was not very complicated to adopt, either for the present or for the current government, for example. raising the level of penalties in different types of regulations, creating a new penalty order, which I had in mind in my main post. It's not very advanced and can often, if it just stays with it, work against its purpose. If we are to be able to mobilize in relation to this type of violence and abuse, it is certainly important that we get armed up criminal law, so that we can discover more cases and get more cases corrected. But in many ways we are also totally dependent on offering those who are subjected to such abuses, another trail. There are many of those who are in such situations, whether children or women, who report both to me and to others that it is difficult for them to move into the tracks of criminal law – and to some extent we understand that. It's a bad solution for someone to have to solve this problem with a police report. We have to take that in. That's why I think it's very important what the interpellant points to when it comes to the responsibilities of the municipalities, the responsibilities of the volunteer helper and the responsibilities of the neighbor – to give people the opportunity to report on this without necessarily having to take the heavy responsibility of doing it as a criminal matter. It may be tough for us politicians to have to admit it, but that's how I think we have to approach this problem. This does not mean that we should not be committed to criminal law, but when we want to prevent this problem to a greater extent, it is important that we obtain such offers as Alternative to Violence represents. I was visiting Langesund the other day and talking to Alternatives to Violence down there, and the dialogue they have with families, family groups, children and women shows that it is possible to change action without having to connect a large social device that really just scares those who are exposed to it. It's often a very difficult balance, but it's absolutely necessary. That society's reaction has to be much wider and – I kept saying – consists of a more varied menu, I think can help us maybe get families, women and children to open up more than we've seen to now. It is a rather tough process to go through when you are referred to the criminal justice system with quite heavy rounds, anchors. We're going to make it easier, but we have challenges elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e985	I think it is great that the Council of Europe is making a campaign on such an important theme, which in many European countries is not taken seriously enough. In Norway, we have done a lot, and, as the Council of State points out, the Government of Stoltenberg II has launched a series of measures to combat violence in close relations. We still have a way to go before we can say we're satisfied, but the government has taken this work seriously, and we're definitely going on. Other countries in Europe are worse off. I'll give you an example. The Justice Committee visited the Justice Committee from the Czech Republic. Around the table there were two men and five women from Norway, while from the Czech Republic there were eight men and a female secretary. They asked what were important issues for the Committee and the government of Norway, and they suggested that they would talk about drug problems and the penalties for drug issues. We replied that drugs are an area where we work, but another area where there is a great deal of focus in Norway is violence in close relationships. We said that we are working for the police to take these matters more seriously, and for health professionals to learn to see signals that children are exposed to violence directly or indirectly, and that we want the public in general not to accept violence even if it happens behind the four walls of the house, and that there is cross-political agreement on this in the committee and on the Storting. The eight men became a little speechless, but finally said that this was not a field they were occupied with in the Czech Republic. This was a problem that belonged to privacy, which the public Czech Republic had nothing to do with, and on which the police were not to use resources. I believe that some of the reasons why we have received a good focus on this topic in Norway at the top level are that women here far more than in the Czech Republic and other countries are in a position to influence the political direction. We were actually prepared for the response from the Czech Committee, but we addressed this issue just to signal that this is a type of crime Norway is taking seriously and is putting on the agenda both in the media, in the government and on the Stortinget. The Council of State went through measures in place to prevent violence in close relations. Both the bet on ATV – Alternatives to Violence – and the new thought with reverse violence alarm are very good. Furthermore, it has been suggested that rape victims should be given several hours to the aid lawyer, which will also help to strengthen the legal certainty of these women. I think it's nice to mark the start of the campaign by putting this important theme on the agenda of the Stortinget, and I'm glad that we have a council of states and a government that doesn't see violence in close relationships as a private matter, but as something it's a public task to fight – not least in view of all the children who live with the threat of violence against mother and perhaps themselves. But even if violence does not physically affect the children, it can cause serious damage to their mental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e1008	Right now, thousands of women around the world are being abused. And right now, children are witnessing or experiencing family violence. Maybe it's the neighbor who's being abused, and maybe both you and I know very well what's going on, but we choose to pretend that we don't. Still, it's better for us that we believe her when she says she fell down the stairs, because it's hard for us to involve ourselves in other people's lives. We cannot solve this problem with words. But we need an effective policy, and we need legal provisions. It's almost with a little goose bump that I'm standing here today, because it's just a similar action in 45 other European countries. That means we're almost writing history with this interpellation. Think of all the countries affected by this action in one way or another! Hopefully, it makes a difference for some women in Europe who live under much more difficult conditions than what we do here. Everywhere — in all countries, within all religions and in all communities — women are beaten, raped and also killed in their own homes. Just by this way putting domestic violence in focus, we're all doing our utmost to help make this not a private matter. Because that's not it. We have heard in the past that there is a lack of both information and data on domestic violence, and this makes the violence in the private sphere almost invisible. We may have been able to get a little more openness in Norway, but in a lot of other European countries, this is happening within the four walls of the house and is obviously a private matter. It violates human rights. We heard the interpellant say that in his post, and we all agree on that. But, above all, domestic violence is a criminal matter. Violence is prohibited by law in Norway, irrespective of where the violence takes place. Anyone who feels threatened has the right to protection. This is enshrined both in the UN Convention on Human Rights and in Norwegian law. If the violence happens within the home's four walls, it won't be legal for that reason. Violence is unacceptable, and it has to be punished so hard that you think very well before doing anything like this again. It does not help to understand the perpetrator — at best give him or her a mild punishment or community punishment — while leaving the victim behind, frightened and unprotected. We have also heard the news lately that the violence alarms, which were thought to protect them, do not work as they should. It's where we politicians have the opportunity to create some tools, and that's where we're going to take our steps, both through strict sanctions against practitioners and through follow-up, support and help to the victim. Unfortunately, it is still far too much so that those who are subjected to domestic violence do not report the matter. It should be as natural for the police to report this as when someone gets knocked down on the street and the rapist is unknown. It is very gratifying when we hear the Minister of Justice now talking about them looking at the penal code. It makes me, please, a little safer in relation to the problem. But here, as policymakers, we also have a real opportunity to influence, as well as organisations as an alternative to violence and others, similar organisations are given the opportunity to help those who need it. I also want to say that domestic violence, regardless of whether it is against partners, against children or against both parties, is totally unacceptable to the Progress Party, even though there are some parties here in the Stortinget that misunderstand on purpose. It is therefore good to hear that the government is now working both on the matter and has initiated various measures around domestic violence. I would like to thank Lise Christoffersen interpellant for the work she has done on the matter, and for allowing Norway also to participate in the marking and in this action. As I said, this action will last for three years, and hopefully we will have a case every year – perhaps as part of the budget – in which we are explained how work is being done on action against domestic violence, what action has been taken, and whether action plans are going to be implemented. So I think that both the interpellant and I will come back to the Storting with what's happening around Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e1025	I am very pleased that this interpellation is going on, and also very pleased that we have a council that takes this as seriously as he does, and is facing this matter. When I was little, I got through some close friends experiencing on the body indirectly what it must be like to live in a house characterized by alcohol abuse, assault and violence. Holes in the wall after a knife cast, broken squares and bruises – it became more and more visible as the family began, read: the children, unable to cover the façade on behalf of the adults who did not have it well in between. Over the course of the year, individual neighbors tried to help as best they could, but nothing happened. From being far above the average, after trying to cover the façade, the children gradually began to hang out for school. Some of them made contact with the child protection system themselves and asked to get away. Nothing happened. It was thought that there was no documentation. One of the parents asked to get away. Nothing happened. The lesson was later: we have to do this on our own. So somebody was able to go on their own over the years. 15 years later, you suddenly discover that you've been on your own since you were six years old, and that it's actually not possible to do everything on your own. You ask for help at the other end of the device. Then you are told: Why have you not contacted before? This is a long way back in time. Then you have to document that you have experienced so strong things to get the help you need. It was the meeting of someone I know, with the auxiliaries. They did a great job in dealing with themselves, but at the end they didn't do it, and luckily, the story ended happily, by getting help after 23 years. TVNorway had a fairly strong story yesterday about a man who had been subjected to assault for many years – I am glad that you should go through the Victim Compensation Act, that has been promised by the Council of State. There was also the situation that he should have reported when he was 18. Now it's actually like that it takes a while before people who are subjected to abuse, things to find out that it wasn't their fault. That's why there's no automatic in that people report immediately. There's nothing that suddenly happens when you're 18 years old – to be honest, I was under an assault, this was bad work – when most of them sit and owe themselves. We've discussed Barna's house in the past; it's not been mentioned in the debate yet. Governments have promised to intensify the work of Barna's house. It's positive. It is extremely important that those who are subjected to this type of assault are met with seriousness and get the opportunity to tell their story as early as possible. Today, people who are being assaulted may have to run to 10–15 different instances and tell the same story over and over again. In the case of children, there are many parents who eventually actually pull the kids aside, they won't expose them to this again. At that time, the children are walking alone – with parents who are not able to assist in this situation either. What's not taken up is how many older people have it. There are a lot of older people who don't necessarily get assaulted and violent by strangers when they go out, but by the closest ones in their own family. It includes both violence, threats, harassment and other acts that can be very offensive to a human being. Research shows that assaults against the elderly are often caused by family conflicts and interpersonal crises in the family. Disease and burden of care may contribute to the emergence of this type of conflict. As others have said here, abuse of family members is not a private matter. I believe, like those who have said it before, that this is about attitudes. It had not happened – at least not as often as in these cases – that a man had been knocked down on the street and subjected to blind violence without the police at least trying to do anything to correct the person who had committed the act. It is sad that in Norway in 2006, women and children will have to go for several years, and have to prove that they have been subjected to abuse and violence, in a completely different way than we see in other types of crime. I am pleased that there is such broad support here in the Chamber to continue the action plans of the previous government, and they are continued by the current one. But I don't think we're going to get anything going until we finish up what the government and all the representatives here are signalling, that we have to do a really educational job, so there's more than about. 20 pieces that are involved in this debate. We have to go far further. It doesn't hold up in big words. We have to look at the significance of e.g. a comprehensive regulatory framework so that 10 to 15 to 20 different bodies partly responsible for professional secrecy must not be addressed to each other in order to achieve what everyone wants in relation to the needs of children and women of all ages.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e1057	With Norway as a member of the Council of Europe, it makes very sense to know that the fight against domestic violence is something that we all stand together on and that is being debated in all the European Parliaments right now. Domestic violence can be combated by taking responsibility and responding when we know that women and children are beaten in their own homes. We have to dry to care. In our modern and open society there are few taboos. However, violence is a taboo area that still exists. The perpetrators don't boast that they're beating. Violence against women and children gives no respect or status. The victims themselves rarely tell us about the abuses they are subjected to. The woman fears condemnation if she becomes violent in a relationship that friends and family know is. We must not remain silent – when we see unexplained bruises and repeated fractures, or when neighboring children tell about difficult conditions at home. Knowledge of violence commits all of us to vigilance, closeness and action. The Christian People's Party will contribute to preventing violence through financial support to the crisis centres, to the family protection offices and to sensory programmes. We believe that it is important to give good help both to the striker and to the striker. Organisations as Alternatives to Violence through treatment have helped many men to live a life free of crime. For us, it has also been important to improve the visit ban system and to give more opportunities to get a violent alarm. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to ensure that children who have witnessed violence are not forced into contact with the perpetrator after a breakup. Although violence does not directly affect the child, it will undoubtedly provide a basis for fear and insecurity. That is why the Bondevik II government proposed amendments to the Children’s Act to increase legal protection for children who have witnessed violence in matters of association. However, when the court decides that association should be carried out, but with supervision, we believe that child protection must provide and pay for help that can supervise the association. It should also be made a requirement for association that the perpetrator seek help to master his problem of violence. I visited the crisis centre in Arendal yesterday to listen to what they think is important. They believe that those who strike must commit to treatment to a far greater extent if they are to be visited by their child. They also agreed with the Christian People’s Party that the family violence coordinator present in each police district should work with full - time family violence. Today, it is often the case that the police officer or the woman responsible for family violence has so many other tasks that this becomes a priority. I want to challenge the Minister of Justice to give priority to this. The Christian People's Party also believes that each police district should hire its own child protection consultant to ensure that the police have good routines to follow up children who live with violence. We proposed this when the police role message was dealt with. The Progress Party and the Right supported us at that time, and after some reflection time will the Council also join in on such a proposal? If we are to succeed in the fight against violence, all institutions must gain more knowledge of this problem. They also need to be far better at cooperating. It may not be that school, healthcare, child protection and police are not provided with relevant information because a person practices the obligation of professional secrecy too strictly. The Christian People's Party believes that although health professionals cannot report to the police in some cases, one should be able to prove this through anonymous statistics. Increased knowledge can help us prevent and provide help at an early stage. Anyone who is subjected to physical and mental violence over the years loses self-confidence. Therefore, the challenges do not end when the relationship with the perpetrator ends. Author Henning Mankell has described the situation this way: To go from being nobody to being someone is the longest journey a human being can make. This recognition obliges us to present to those who are victims of violence over a long period of time. For they are not just ‘some’. They're mothers, sisters, friends and colleagues. No one can deal with it unscathed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e1085	Thank you to Lise Christoffersen and to the Council of Europe for taking this initiative. And I would like to say to the press release that they are cordially welcome to come and follow up on this important debate! Regrettably, violence against women is as topical now as it was before, the Norwegian women in general have been given an incredibly much better daily life, thanks in particular to the women's movement's struggle for women's rights, economic seaworthiness and to do what was previously entirely private, into a political matter – because violence against women is a violation of human rights. Violation of women's human rights occurs every day, every second. Girls' fetuses are aborted away, girls' babies are killed, little girls are married away to much older men. Girls are denied education, sexual mutilation, coercion and stoned to death, forced into the sex industry, or raped as part of a horrific war strategy. So we're the luckiest guy in the world. And it was just to be missing that we didn't contribute to giving other women the same rights and opportunities that we've been given. The fact that women’s rights and development are central to the government’s aid strategy is therefore extremely important. We must take up the right of women and children to a life without violence in all the forums we participate in internationally. We have to make ethical demands for our companies and for investments that are made. And we have to go ahead as a good example, by showing that we're impatient, even at home. Violence against women and children is a major problem here too. And we, as neighbours, friends, colleagues and politicians, have a responsibility to tell when we see or hear the use of violence – especially when there are children present. For children take harm from violence, and it is our duty to prevent children from being injured. An increasing number of women with a minority background in crisis centres also say that we need a clear and specific focus on children in minority settings and their exposure to violence. As politicians, it is extremely important that we demand good knowledge, good practices, commitment, clear management, enough resources and close cooperation to detect and prevent violence. On the SV side, we have been active for many years in order to secure a framework for crisis centres, quality-secured rape facilities, more rights for victims of violence, treatment services for violent people and enough resources for police family violence coordinators. In addition, we have raised several justice debates. We have e.g. asked if it is fair and reasonable that men who have claimed that they did not understand that a woman would not have intercourse with them, got to go free, almost without further notice. We have asked if it is fair and reasonable that women who have been brought home with men after play, who have drunk themselves, or wore challenging clothes, would not be believed if they were raped. We have asked if it was okay that women and children have almost routinely been removed from their own homes and sent to crisis centres, while violent men stayed. We've had debates about the use of code 6, which gives victims of violence and their children the opportunity to live at a secret address, and, as a woman described it, "end to exist", while the perpetrator was still allowed to move freely. And we've asked if it's fair that victims of violence have received a violent alarm and in practice live as in a prison, while the perpetrator is free and able to do as he pleases. This has resulted in several important legislative changes — and more importantly, it has resulted in changes in attitudes. Now we are raising the debate on the space for action of child protection, and whether it is fair that in the worst case a violent and threatened mother can lose her child's care because she cannot protect it against a violent companionship, because child protection does not have the means to protect the child for her. On the SV side, we believe it is necessary to raise further debates in the future. The debate on the three-year rule is one – whether it is right to give Norwegian men as much power over foreign women as this rule gives them. We want debates on trafficking and sex purchases that make buyers more responsible, while at the same time safeguarding the human rights of victims. Understanding the situation of women is crucial. And we see that the same attitudes that have affected victims of family violence also affect victims of trafficking. You ask, why doesn't she just go? Why does she go back to the attacker? Why does she let herself be exposed to this over and over again? Why doesn't she cooperate? Psychological insight is essential for us to become effective supporters, because we need to understand what violence is, and what violence does, when it hits again and again. ATV and the crisis centre movement have taught us a lot about this over many years of unworkable work. So I'll finish by reading a note that you can see at an exhibition down in the Historical Hall, an exhibition I recommend you to see: «To you who find me. Please give this to those with whom Fredrik is going to live.Friedrik is always read for before he goes to bed like to ake, but is quickly calling his hands.Glad in helm with sugar on. Don't give it to him every day requires clear boundaries without becoming a Sinalician to have some light on when he lays down I always say from where I am in the house after he has settled...happy in animals. Has he promised a guinea pig...very happy in Anne's kindergarten...accompanied by angels who take care of him has an addiction to me since his father is not here» This is a woman who lives today, and she lives in fear.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e1154	The interpellant has taken up a large, important and too often neglected matter. Domestic violence is a major social problem. Crisis centres and child protection can tell us a lot about it. But most stories are not told, or told too late. The hidden violence, mainly against women and children, occurs year in and year out, often without the environment knowing it. Unfortunately, it is also that if we become aware that violence is taking place behind the neighbor's door, we refuse to call an alarm. In an interview with the Minister of Health and Care earlier this year, I focused my attention on the major challenges of assaulting the elderly within their own homes. Hospitals, primary health services, police, social services, municipal care, everyone can tell about cases where elderly, mostly women, but also some men, have been subjected to violence, but where the victim refuses to tell us what has happened. «You know, your mother is going a long way,» the municipal publisher called her material on the abuse of the elderly. It's from as far back as 1988. Three years later, in 1991, Vern started for the elderly in Manglerud City in Oslo. Today, 15 years later, it is as far as I know, only established Vern for senior offices in three municipalities, Trondheim, Oslo and Bærum. I hope, of course, that other municipalities also focus on the problem, but there is a lot of evidence that they all, most of them do not have an action chain that provides a good enough reporting and follow-up device for the many violent elderly. The Health Minister said that she would follow up the matter in the government's care report, and she has made that promise. In St.meld. No 25 for 2005-2006, on future care challenges, the government stated that ‘the aim of the government is to strengthen its competence in violence against older people in municipalities’. It also refers to the strengthening of the work of the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress, a centre engaged in research and development, education, the building of skills and the provision of knowledge and dissemination of knowledge, through the establishment of regional centres. It will benefit violent women in general. The government will further establish a nationwide contact telephone for the elderly who are subjected to violence. The Ministry will also consider whether information obligations should be imposed on health and social workers in the event of an abuse of the elderly. Yes, this is good. The Interpellant and the Minister of Justice also show that there is a need for care in each municipality. I think it's absolutely right, and I think it's very right to focus on the cross-sectoral work that needs to be done to benefit this particular group of violent women. The examples we know from the municipalities that have established Vern for the elderly show that it is not very expensive and personnel-intensive services that are needed. This is not about imposing new responsibilities on municipalities of a comprehensive nature, but it is about systematising a chain of responsibilities that the municipalities already have and of which they are the most important part. In my contact with resource people who have worked to help the elderly who are being abused, it is clear that the responsibility for setting up an action apparatus needs to be better anchored in the law. It is difficult to ignore that recommendation when you see how little has happened all the years that it has, after all, been focused on this area. I therefore ask the Minister of Justice to also have the experience of preventing violence against the elderly in the municipalities, in particular Oslo, Bærum and Trondheim, and the recommendations given by the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress, in their follow-up work after this interview. In addition, there is a fruitful cooperation with the Ministry of Health and Welfare – yes, I believe the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and other departments – in a work that needs to go further. There are seven parties here today that talk about the same ambitions. We have the same objectives, but we have to recognise that we have been talking about this for many years, and we have come very close to the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e1171	Maybe a confession, as I've learned it: it's a fact that it went over twenty years from the pioneers in Norwegian crisis centers recorded what we're talking about today, until it became a theme for the Norwegian government in 2000. Then it's been held up by all governments. That's right. But in our society it went twenty years. It was twenty years since one saw that there was a systematic assault on women at home. It was more than twenty years before the term ‘housewreck’ was replaced by the term ‘criminal action’. I think we should have that as a reflection for ourselves. In our society, it took twenty years. That is why I have to say that it is very good that the Council of Europe has a campaign, because in other roles in my life I have made a number of European colleagues who, in general, become politely white on the face when talking about this issue. I have even been exposed to a colleague – I will anonymise it – who asked if I was a militant when I addressed the subject. I then said I was a militant. I think it's a special obligation for male politicians to make it clear that this is a matter for everyone, to make it clear that it's not a kind of macho culture that's going to be allowed to live here. I think it is wise and quite right what has been pointed out earlier, that we are too little critical, too little ongoing, to the abuses in homes that to the seventh and last end both in killing and in several killings. I'm not going to go into any single thing, it's not right, but we know from the statistics how it works. Therefore, I believe that those who have been pioneers, the crisis centres, we must continue to take care of them, but if we are to take them seriously, I support the thinking that more people have had, that we must systematically ensure that those in the municipalities who see – health workers, teachers, many others – are strengthened, so that they dare to admit that they see what they see, and know where they are going. Here it is, with all due respect for the time it took, for example. to get the Norwegian police to put it on the agenda, a considerable job to do. It is a significant job for city councillors and municipal politicians. As the police, I myself have been involved in an exciting development. It was a first hit a few years ago for family violence coordinators where you almost had to whip people in. On the next hit there was a useful break-up, and when the hit was made, there was access control. But I think it is very important, as the Minister of Justice said, that around these deeply involved policemen, organisational strength must be built, in the sense of more, and more, and more, in teams, to use the term that Justice Minister Storberget said. What happens to people who work here is that they get so deep into things that they can burn out quickly when they start to catch up with them. Criminal statistics are not easily recorded. It'll take time. That's why it's very important that the mobilization that happened in the police, the awareness that existed for many years in crisis centres and in structures like Alternatives to Violence, meet in health care, meet everywhere, and that much of the same intense awareness that has taken place in the places I've mentioned is held fast. That's why I think the Minister of Justice is absolutely right when he wants to build strength around the family violence coordinators, he calls it a team. That's excellent. We have excellent examples of this in some places, such as: in Westfold, a very good example. Let's just grab hold of it and build it further. This is what we need to do to make the pioneers who work feel that someone is following them up. Then I am very convinced that the system of compensation for victims of violence is over-ripe for reform. We all agree on that, but it's so overly mature that if there's something that's going to be treated quickly, that's exactly it. That's the little handshake you get from society. I'm impressed by the business that organisations as an alternative to violence have done, because they've taught us that especially men who beat, can be helped, only you can see it early and react with great strength. It is important to know how to prevent this. So I think we have to admit, sadly, that if someone has decided to kill, we can hardly prevent it. But we can do a lot more before someone comes to the idea that that's what's the last resort. Therefore, in deep recognition of and in humility that it took twenty years before the Norwegian authorities took this on board, we may not have the same patience towards European colleagues, but I wish the Council of State of Storberget and all his colleagues luck to be militant when they meet polite, smiling politicians, unemployed national flags behind them. That's a little bit too many of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e1197	I am happy to be able to support a government that has so strongly focused on this topic, and that shows concrete action. I am also pleased that there is a major cross-political consensus on the measures being launched. The new regime did not last long until we had adopted new provisions of the Staff Act, which provide greater and better protection for the victim and which provides a greater penalty for the perpetrator. This goes for example: that we made the law applicable to several types of victims, such as divorced spouses and stepchildren. This also applies to the provision previously referred to as a restraining order, where there was a physical presence at certain places that were in focus but which are now subject to a more general contact ban. We have also given clear signals in the police action to prioritize these kinds of cases higher. We have also come with and will come up with a number of other measures, such as Barna's house, a test project with a reverse violent alarm. It's set up a rape committee, and we've strengthened the counsel for victims. We will also strengthen the offer to help those who practice violence, so that they can break their own cycle of violence. Finally, I would also like to mention the effort we make on DNA registers, which can help solve more rape cases. Although the government has a lot of pressure on this, and the political environment has a lot of pressure on this, it does not. We need much more focus on the theme in general. I miss the media's focus. There is no lack of reports and stuff about street violence among young men on weekends, and that's fine. But when it comes to family violence, it's a deafening silence. Is it still a culture that is a private matter? Yeah, I'm sorry, I think so. Why do you still meet statements like: Yes, but you can just move out. We need to intensify the long, tough fight to change attitudes to violence in close relationships, because it is a matter of attitude. Domestic violence is not a private matter, although it happens within the four walls of the house. We need more people who care, more people who say from, and more and better offers for those who are hit. To illustrate how difficult it can be for the victim, I will conclude with a poem by the Finnish-Swedish author Märta Tikkanen. I'll try to read it in Swedish, and you'll listen to the content, and not the pronunciation: «First of all, it feels quite swindling and incomprehensible, after all, there are those who Serbakom façade who know and realizeBut then everything becomes even more difficult Then comes the question: Why don't you go?Innumerable times I've been on this period because I don't get the last time I go out with the maladies when he starts lying then I go and he ever wears a hand on me and the kids don't have to go any longer and I don't have to do everything yet I didn't go?»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e1275	I will also give great praise to the interpellant to address this important topic here today. It's very nice that in the same week we can have two almost identical debates on such an important topic. One can then ask, as the representative of Thorkildsen, where is the media in this matter? The fact that the Council of Europe, in close cooperation with the United Nations, has put this on the agenda and raised it at the level it has done is incredibly positive. This is such an important theme that it's important to get real focus on it in the media as well, because we have to raise people's awareness. Every day we can read in the newspapers about violence, whether about domestic violence or violence that has happened after one party has chosen to go, often with incredibly tragic results. In the last week of the evening, we could read that over 100,000 children live with violence every day. 2000 children and 1000 women seek help after being subjected to violence, or have witnessed violence. We know that these numbers are much higher. That is why it is important to put this high on the agenda, not only here in Stortinget, but also in the Ministry of Justice, in county councils and not least in local government. Domestic violence has often been very private. People have been horrified to engage in business and interfere with private lives. Often, the one who is subjected to violence, also has thousands of excuses against the one who has committed the violence, and usually remains. All statistics also show that children who are subjected to violence and who are witnesses to violence are more likely to engage in violence later on. A boy who sees father beat mother, often thinks it should be so. So what can we do specifically to avoid holding such speeches as we do today in this room? It's so important that all the parties get engaged. When it's about so many numbers, and dark numbers, there might be a lot of us in here who either know someone who's practicing violence, or know someone who's being subjected to violence. We have a responsibility, not only for us, but also for all municipal politicians and state politicians. Crisis centres need to be strengthened. It's the first meeting place for those who are subjected to violence. We have a responsibility with regard to violence alarms, health stations and, in particular, kindergartens and schools. The fact that the Minister of Justice is now notifying a child of his own phone of violence is also very positive. Therapy – we have ATV, Alternatives to Violence – is also important. We can stand here and talk about the penalty level, whether it's too low or too high, but I'm not going to do that today. When we talk about the level of punishment, the violence has already happened. It's incredibly important to talk about it too, but I want to talk about prevention. We need to focus on how to prevent and prevent violence. The one who is subjected to violence also has a responsibility to abandon violence. But then it's us politicians who have to put things right, so it's easier and safer to leave the violence you're being subjected to. That needs to change our attitude, and that is what we politicians can do. We must not read the newspapers, for example. That imamen says yes to beat his wife. It is important that the auxiliary equipment is in place, that it is a crisis centre and that it must not be closed because it does not have an economy. They're family violence teams in the police. The police have to take care of them seriously. Nor should it be that a family violence team should be called in order to increase the focus of the police. It is very important that the police now get it to the team as well as to the family violence coordinator, but it should have a high status regardless of the police. So finally, this is such an important topic, and what we see today is so frighteningly high numbers that I want to challenge the Council of State that we need to get a proper action plan on violence in close relations, so that we can have a good and broad debate on this important topic of proper action that can be put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e1298	Several have famed the interpellant to address an important topic, and so will I. It is also clearly positive that there is a debate in many parliaments and that this will be a theme around Europe. At the same time, I see from the interpellant’s text that this violence is described as ‘the most widespread form of human rights violations that exist, that they occur in all Member States, across borders, age groups, races, family types and social environments’. That's certainly true, but at the same time it can give the impression that violence is happening almost randomly, and without any connection between previous factors and the fact that there is violence. I am convinced that the interpellant has no desire to create such an impression. But it is clear that there is knowledge of what kind of society there is a lot of violence in, and what kind of society there is less violence in, and if we don't make use of that knowledge, all the actions that are being deployed will come at an too late time. The most important thing we can do in Norway is to create a society that is so safe for most that it produces violence to a small extent. Here we see that different countries in Europe are not at the same stage, but at different stages. I think it's thoughtful that when I talked to my now deceased grandparents, they told me that they used spanish pipes in school, or that someone who loves their child disciplines it early. And we've seen how it's been accepted in Norway too so that the use of physical overpower should be a sensible method of training. At the moment you accept it as part of a culture of society, you also accept the use of power in other contexts, where there is a social acceptance for the exercise of violence. We also see how violence is often perpetrated by labile people, not least when they consume drugs. And while we can agree here that we should seek to prevent domestic violence, we will no longer agree as much when we start to analyse causes that cause violence, and start to do something about it. It's just to see how disagreed we get when we start discussing drug policy in this room. That's why it's important that we dare to take hold of the mechanisms that trigger violence, then to do something with them, do something about the social structure. We know that there's a difference between the experiences children have of the community as they grow up. The same thing applies to women. Depending on whether these environments are safe, the municipality has succeeded in creating safe areas in which children can live, it will also affect the pattern of violence. Such analyses need to be done if we are to influence the phenomenon of violence. Then it strikes one, by the most serious form of violence that exists, against both women and children, violence that ends in killing, that today we may know too little about the mechanisms that apply. I assume that the matter that all the media in Norway have resolved has made a strong impression on everyone who reads about it: a person kills his former partner, kills his son, kills his father and eventually himself, and one asks: What in the world is there for kind of mechanisms that apply when a person can in this way do something so terrible? But here things are so arranged that when it all ends with a suicide, you don't move on. And at least I've been asking myself, why don't we have mechanisms in society that examine those phenomena, that try to figure out what happened, what made this person come into such a state. Is there anything that could have been done in advance that we could have learned from? We see that we have accident commissions investigating aircraft accidents. Maybe – I just launch it as an idea – you should have commissions that went through the kind of extremely serious events that result in suicide, when the judiciary can't otherwise take it because you no longer have the opportunity to judge the guilty person because this person himself is dead. It could also have helped us to develop over time a knowledge we don't have today about why that kind of violence occurs. I hope that there will be later occasions when we can specifically discuss, based on the experience of researchers and professionals, how we can reduce violence from this knowledge, for example in dealing with drugs, and that we can do so from a common understanding and not close our eyes to what we actually know today, as we sometimes experience when we become more concrete than we have been to this debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e1311	A thank you to the interpellant, who takes up a serious and often well-hidden problem that happens within the house's four walls. The fact that the topic is discussed in a national perspective shows that it is a problem that affects many, and that has many, silent victims. We choose to call them the silent victims, for it is those who live with both sorrow and pain, and who are not captured by the auxiliaries in the way we want. As the Council of State said correctly, this applies more than just justice. In the Health and Welfare Committee, we have been committed to putting the spotlight on the elderly who are exposed to domestic violence. Violence in close relationships is taboo. The threshold for seeking help is high, either because of loyalty, emotional bonds, addiction or guilt. It is not very difficult to imagine that it is difficult to go and report your own son or daughter. It is also easy to identify with the loss of pride and respect and the feeling of failure as parents. The focus is on this theme in the Size, Opportunities and Meaning Storing message. Experience shows that 4-6 pst. have been subjected to any kind of assault by older people over 70 years of age. It's the same number as for the rest of the population, and with the dark numbers in addition, there's a lot of them. It is important that knowledge and competence on the topic reach health care professionals and that they know what to do when they are exposed to such issues. Many in the group on which the care notification concentrate have some kind of home service, but it is difficult to reach and detect the problems there as well. That is why we in the Workers' Party are very pleased that the Government's action to establish a nationwide contact telephone for the elderly who are exposed to violence is now being implemented. This phone shall provide advice and guidance and will be a low threshold for making contact. It will be able to help more people contact and get help. Another approach notified by the Government is to assess the obligation to provide information to health and social workers in the event of an abuse of the elderly, so that interaction can be achieved when something is discovered. Protection for the elderly, which started in Oslo, is also a contribution to the detection of domestic violence, and has been used in several places in the country with different approaches. Carrying is an example. A family violence coordinator has been established, which may come in after an assault has taken place. It is important that such measures are developed further, and that more municipalities learn from what works and make their own plan. The problem is that many measures are put in place once the problem has arisen and been identified — and it does not prevent much. The question is, how can we prevent violence, how can we stop it, and how can we make it understandable to those affected, that it is unacceptable, so that they can dry out? Interaction may be an important word to take with it. Violence is unacceptable no matter who's hit, and we can't defend it. The action plan ‘Vold in close relations’ has its objectives. There is an important point in interacting and increasing knowledge in the auxiliaries. Visibility may create a change of attitude, and the plan determines that assistance should be provided when an infringement has occurred. One of the measures also mentioned by the Council of State is regional resource centres against violence, as the Brustad Council of State also mentioned in the interpellation held by the representative Sundsbø in April of this year. There will be one way to keep working. That domestic violence is put on the agenda by the interpellant, is very good. We can, by putting words on taboo themes – as we learned when we did with the crisis centers, and as we learned when we did with incest – relieve many of those who have been exposed to this, for shame and perhaps help them to get to grips with the problems. It is our job as politicians to take the difficult debates, also those that traditionally belong within the four walls. We have to let it become the social problem it is, and show that we don't accept violence. We do that by creating changes of mind in the direction we want – as has been said many times in this room today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e1332	I also want to give credit to the interpellant for bringing up this theme. I think it has been a good and nuanced debate in the big room on important challenges, one of which has shown commitment by all the political parties. That's what I thought was positive. A few years ago, I read a report entitled 'Where we live, all the ladies are crying'. It was a report on children who behaved in a crisis centre because the mothers had fled there with them. The report pointed out that this was a group that received too little attention. The report was about how the children were in crisis centres, how they were taken care of, and that they also needed help. Fortunately, this has changed something, even if it is a work to do further in this field as well. Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund was within part of the measures that the Christian People's Party has been proposing when it comes to the suppression of power in the world, so I don't have to repeat it. I would like to say a few words about, among other things. This is the case with Alternative to Violence, which is a treatment for men who beat. Why does the election take place? What is the background, and what kind of childhood do the men who beat have? One can often see that things are inherited. Therefore, it is important to take measures aimed at the children, and it is important that the men who hit are given a treatment scheme that allows them to get out of the vicious spiral where one believes that problems can be tackled by violence. Therefore, it is important that this work is intensified. And then I want to figure out that we're approaching Christmas, and 300,000 kids are freaking out by Christmas, because parents are drinking too much alcohol. When we get into the issue of alcohol, it's easy for many to go into the political trenches. However, if we are to address the challenges of violence, we are forced to address the challenges of alcohol, because there is a close link between alcohol abuse and violence. When there is a restrictive alcohol policy, it is not as popular in the political parties where one would rather facilitate the widest possible availability of alcohol as far as possible over the day at the cheapest price possible. But if one takes seriously the problem of violence, listen to the signals sent by the police, and look at all those who have problems as a result of it, then one will see that there is a big and central connection between alcohol use and choice. That's why I should like us to be able to talk about the challenges of alcohol on the same cross-political line that we're talking about now. Perhaps one would have to do even more in relation to the challenges you face in relation to power. If one puts the weakest in the center, it is actually the children and their upbringing that are important – how parents and their surroundings are, whether they get a safe and healthy growth, or a turbulent growth. When women are subjected to physical and mental authority over time, it also affects the children, perhaps both directly and indirectly. As others have said, election is not a private matter. Choice is in a way that we must jointly fight down. Where one can get the right many strong stories, screams and pain, we politicians shouldn't answer with silence.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e1343	I have a hero. It's not one of the pioneers who was among the first women to wear pants, or the first toothpick worker to strike. No, it's a gray-haired man. He's even a priest. He's my hero because he's set up a male network against violence against women. Because we can't do anything about this situation without men. I would particularly like to thank the male representatives who have taken the floor today, for they have really understood that. Women are not safe if they cannot be guaranteed a life in peace. Society does not take great enough responsibility for ensuring this security for women. My hero no longer wants a machinoidal. Violence is something that affects us all -- maybe not me and you, maybe not here and now, and maybe not in life, but it affects us just as much anyway. It hits us like sex, like mothers, like siblings, like fathers, like friends and as societies. Because what are we really talking about here today? What's going to be discussed? Is there something far away, something that hits the others? The reason why I ask this question is the following: Someone, and then I don't mean anyone in this room, has it by considering women's right to a life without violence as a question that's a little strange to them, that this affects someone else – there's someone out there who's been sacrificed. I'd like to say to them, "Stop it." There is a link between how a society treats its women and its economic development. Violence against women and the lack of democratic rights are the biggest obstacles to women’s development in the world – and probably also the biggest obstacle to the world’s development. Imagine standing outside a block of apartments, and imagine that you're looking at all the bells. If you count down to every three bells, at the same time think about the following: Every third of the world's women have been beaten, forced into sex, or abused in any other way by a family member. Domestic violence is a major cause of harm and death among women around the world. 19 pst. due to abuse of women’s health and injuries in developed countries. These numbers commit us to action. In Norway, we have come a long way in understanding the only right position in relation to violence, namely that it is only the responsibility of the perpetrator. A woman cannot be blamed if she wears too short skirts, or if she is unable to walk away from her attacker. In the meantime, this is missing. We also see it in the Norwegian social debate. They say, "She shouldn't go out at night." Now women should stay in prison because there are so many rapists out there. We can't have tapes on Norwegian women. I say the obvious, because if we don't have this right, the woman will also, in addition to being subjected to violence like sex, get guilt – and she doesn't dare take it. I think there are three ways to work against violence that are important. One is women's legal certainty. Here, the Council of State is doing a very good job to secure it. Today, the woman dares not report an infringement because she is afraid that the meeting with the judicial system will be another infringement. The second is Norwegian foreign policy. Here I think we have to be unlikely much better than what we are today. We have to have equality in the driver's seat, also in the international forums. We have a responsibility to women outside the world. When we have come so far, why is this not higher on the agenda? The third, which is my main point, is that we have to work for a still equal society. I want to focus on it. We see that there is a connection between how much power men have in a society, and how much violence it is against women. Numbers from Amnesty show that in Norway about 10–15 pst. used violence against their partners, in the United States and Canada 25 p.p., 50 p.p. in Turkey and the entire 90 pst. married men in Pakistan. It shows that there is a link between the work you do for an equal society and the work you do to secure women against violence. So when women in politics demand quota, equality and influence on the power arena, it's the other side of the coin by working against violence. Legal certainty and equality must be ensured in a society. We don't live in a society without violence yet, but I hope we can do something about this. I hope that the interpellation here today will lead to the launch of new measures, and that we can further break down the taboo of talking about violence against women.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e1369	I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for a great debate. I think it's great that a lot of people get involved. There have been many themes and many angles of incidence. We in the Council of Europe delegation shall ensure that we report back on the Norwegian involvement in the campaign. Sometimes we say with a little smile about our mouth that Norway always strives to be the best in the class of international forums, and it's not always that we think it's as positive, but in this context this will really be something to stretch after. The debate has shown that society must, without reservation, show zero tolerance for violence against women. The campaign is about violence against women in particular, but some of the best remedies in the long term, which the Council of Europe itself stresses, are likely to be aimed at gender equality in general. Research shows that self-employed women, economically and in other ways, take more control of their own lives, even when it's going to break out of violent relationships. Self-employed women also do something about the general attitudes of society, and this will, in the long run, be preventive. But we're not there yet. Finally, I would like to point out an important point in the campaign, which is also underlined by the UN Special Rapporteur, namely the need to develop good target indicators so that we can follow developments closely and adjust the course if measures do not have the desired effect. This work is already under international control and these indicators should also be used here in the country when they are available. International comparisons are a useful tool for increasing knowledge, such as: The representative called for Ballo, if there are comparisons of good quality. An independent reason for using better target indicators is the need to identify the scale of the problem. It's scary if there's big darkness outside and going. If that's like 20-25 pst. It is only the top of an iceberg, as the Council of Europe refers to, that the task may be greater than we have thought. But in any case, the debate here today has been joyful. It shows a real cross-political commitment. It shows an offensive state council, and it citizens that the results will also come in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e1382	With all due respect for Stortingen's debates: this has been a very good debate. It may not be every time you take part in debates here, that you feel that in many ways you can get some ideas and ideas checked out without risking being politically attached to them for the next round. We've used the debate for that. We've got a lot of input into both angles and measures that I think it's absolutely worth going on. We have had a debate that, at least for my part, has put some feelings into my stomach, which has given me some suction. I think there is reason to pay tribute to all the participants in this debate. It has not become unobligatory. There has been a debate that has taken the problem seriously, and has also given it to us that there are opportunities to do something in this area. Some comments on some of the comments: The representative, Woldseth, addresses the issue of violence alarms. I have informed my underlying agencies, the Police Directorate in particular, that we need to check out and investigate the effects of these violent alarms, so that they work as they should. We will quickly get reports of any defects in that exact relationship. It would be pointless if we didn't. The representative of Octay Dahl and the representative of Sundsbø and also several of the health fractions have made important contributions, including: on the situation of the elderly. There's important input that we're going to take with us when we're going to try to do what the representative Horne recommended us to do, to see if you can make a more coherent strategy in relation to violence in general and in relation to violence in close relationships, so that the Stortinge can get this thread back on a much larger scale on a later occasion. I was about to say, couldn't we meet, if we don't do it here, then maybe elsewhere, just to discuss exactly these questions and see how far we can get? The representative of Dørum has raised the question of compensation for victims of violence. And I agree that it is over-mature for reform. We're working on that, and I hope we can make it, along with the changes we're going to make in relation to the follow-up to the Committee's position. The representative Woie Duesund has addressed issues related to the role of child protection in terms of supervision and association. It has been said in an interpellation debate the other day that there is a problem with the government now going in to try to create a necessary clarification on. The representative, Ballo, comes up with exciting thoughts about almost a family-happy commission in relation to the tragic episodes that we've seen in recent times, and I'm also taking that with me. What is important, in the end: we must not be caught by the tyranny of good intentions in this debate, and – not least – let us not be caught by the perception that often comes to mind that it does not benefit, and thus let powerlessness take us. Alternatives to Violence have shown that it is possible to do something in this field. They have many good examples of that. In this way, many of us might say that we make little Fredrik, he with sugar on his mouth, a little bit safer, and at least we've achieved something, which makes the bet worth it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e1399	Then the interpellation debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e1417	In an article in the reputable scientific journal Science, the two American researchers Michael J. Saks and Jonathan Koehler presented in August 2005 a study in which they reviewed 86 cases in the United States that had resulted in a conviction. The common thing for the case was that DNA analyses later showed that the perpetrator was innocent. 14 of these judgments mentioned here were death sentences. The study concluded that erroneous expert judgements were valid for a total of 63 pst. of the cases. Only eyewitnesses were more unreliable. The article gives examples of errors made by experts. In one case, fault closures applied to the skin of a killing victim, where the expert had certainly pointed out the suspect as a perpetrator based on a coincidence between the bite marks and the suspected tooth set. The doom was later acquitted of suspicion, because DNA analyses in turn led to the identification of another perpetrator. One of the main points of the article is that new technologies, in particular DNA, shed new light on previous expert conclusions and provide the basis for drawing previously used methods into doubt. But the extension that previous methods prove not to be as reliable as you initially thought, also shows that experts have presented evidence in a way that has been misleading, because it has been associated with greater weight of evidence than it has been true. In September this year, under the direction of Jusprofessor Ståle Eskeland and Medical Professor Per Brantzæg, both appointed at the University of Oslo, a professional seminar on forensic expertise in criminal matters was held, where it was referred to the article in Science and drawn parallels for use by experts in Norway. In an interview with the magazine Apollon, No. 3 for 2006, a research magazine from the University of Oslo, Professor Ståle Eskeland states: ‘There is no reason to believe that conditions are different in Norway.’ In the same article, Professor Per Brandtzäg states: ‘While there are strict requirements for levels of significance in scientific activities, at least 95 per cent is required to be sure that a result is acceptable, forensic practitioners do not appear to make such requirements when providing evidence in the courtroom. They often allow themselves to see and draw conclusions for which there is no evidence.’ Lawyers seem to use the term ‘predominantly probable’ even when the probability is only 50 pst., whereas experts with the same concept may believe that it is close to 100 pst. I'm sure. When terms used industriously are not subject to the same understanding of the person using them, and of the person who is to understand them, misunderstandings and misconceptions have prevailed. A former killer scientist, Asbjørn Rachlew, is currently taking a doctorate at the University of Oslo on witness interviews. He has often been asked to be an expert in legal matters to comment on whether witnesses are truthful or not. In an interview with the newspaper Apollon, Rachlew says that he consistently says no to this. And he goes on to say, ‘The research in this area has been very short, and even if an expert makes reservations, the statements will soon be given too much weight in a matter that has already been undeclared.’ He claims that in spite of these professional objections, it is still “many of psychologists who take on such assignments”. The question of the use of experts in the courts and the weight attached to their assessments in clarifying the possible guilt of the defendant was raised in the context of the resumption of the so-called Liland case. The formerly convicted Per Liland was finally found free and cleaned, at a time when he had sunbathed for many years for a killing he had not committed. A selection that reviewed the matter concluded, among other things. critical of the investigations and opinions of forensic experts and criticism of the interaction between forensic experts and the legal actors in the criminal proceedings. It says to read in NOU 1996:15, about the Liland case. There are a number of historical examples of cases in Norway that have fallen and that have subsequently proved to be the murder of the judiciary. The freshest example is the Fritz Moen case, while one of the most famous examples is 100 years old this year, the so-called Hetle case. In common with a number of these cases, expert opinions related to the evidence have played a crucial role in the outcome of the cases. Retired teamman Trygve Lange-Nielsen described in a chronicle in the Evening Post in September 2006 the judgment against 28 people who were convicted for incest and later released, as the ‘darkest chapter in our legal history since the 1600s witchcraft process’. Common to the various convictions was the strong emphasis on forensic expert statements, which in retrospect proved to be false. On 2 April 1998, the Ministry of Justice appointed a selection to review forensic quality assurance and control in criminal matters. The committee gave its position, NOU 2001:12, exactly three years later, i.e. 2 April 2001. It will lead too far to review all the conclusions of the sample work, but I would like to point out some aspects that the sample weighted: One should ensure that the courts and police/prosecution authorities have access, where necessary, to the best possible expertise and to the possibility of a second opinion, i.e. a review, peer review.There should be clearer and stricter rules on the sustainability of experts.Requirencies should, to a greater extent than at present, design clear and appropriate mandates that can adequately address forensic issues.In-house quality assurance procedures should be formalised where forensic services are produced, and accreditation should be carried out where possible.Scientific activities in the professional community should, through increased activity, enhance the quality of expertise.The external quality assurance of the forensic commission should be developed and strengthened.The competence of experts should be increased in both legal and medical disciplines.Legal medical services should be organised and funded in order to provide cost-effective production. Knowledge and revenues generated by forensic activities should be returned to the service providers in order to strengthen their activities. The questions raised are the extent to which the work of the sample has led to a real increase in the level of Norwegian declarations of expertise and the extent to which the risk of erroneous convictions is reduced by the correct interpretation of the evidence available. I hope that the Council of State in its response to my interpellation can explain how the sample work I have now mentioned has been followed up, and how the Council of State assesses the future need for new measures, as part of ensuring the most appropriate judgement in Norwegian courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e1483	In the courts, a number of complex and demanding issues are dealt with in many different fields. The use of experts in legal proceedings is necessary to clarify professional issues in areas where the court does not have specific competence. I think I would say that both social justice and technological development have not exactly helped to mitigate the need for expertise, whether in civil or criminal matters. Thus, at a time when more and more conflicts are being legalised and more disciplines are being dealt with, the use of experts is becoming more and more frequent. The courts use many different specialists — doctors, psychologists, builders, plumber engineers, people from SINTEF, just to name a few. These may be expert judges sitting on the panel of judges, or they may be appointed experts, or experts of the parties, and meetings as expert witnesses. These often have a two-part role in many ways. Sometimes they mainly contribute to a correct verdict and to the identification of the facts. In particular: In the case of child-sharing, we see that experts can play a decisive role in the process and contribute to, for example: shall obtain a settlement before any judgment is given. Experts are thus important in the process as well. As Minister of Justice, I am concerned that the experts are of high quality, so that the decisions of the court are correct. My opinion is that the experts who act in the courts maintain such a high level of professional quality and that they are important contributors to the good and proper decisions of the courts following a good process. However, we must have a critical look. Not least experience with the errors of expertise and shortcomings in some cases in recent years has made us even more aware of the fact that the experts do not provide us with undisputable fasitant answers. But it is not the case that the expert is going to decide the case. In Norway, a free assessment of evidence shall be carried out by the courts, in other words, a free assessment of the evidence. They don't have any templates or calculations to go up in many ways, and they don't have a research problem summarizing evidence. The Court of First Instance shall at all times assess all the evidence provided. The judge shall take a stand for a mosaic of information, and the expert's opinions are only one of many evidence in the matter. If the court considers that the case has not been fully clarified, it may decide to obtain new evidence and suspend the negotiations. It is important to point out that it is the judges who assess the experts, their reports and their opinions with the necessary thoroughness and criticalness that are aware of the specific competence of the experts in their fields. The judge shall ensure that their opinions are not given greater weight than they deserve. The courts shall dispense with evidence which is not necessary for the complete disclosure of the case. Among other things, made in the Orderrud case, where the right did not allow the use of a ‘confidence expert’ because such expert judgement would directly interfere with the assessment of evidence by the court. It is important that the competence of the judges is high. I stress again that it is the judges who ultimately decide what will be the basis for the decisions. However, I am concerned that the work of the experts is adequately ensured. The different professional environments have a great responsibility within their fields. It's not enough for them to be far ahead of them professionally. In addition, it is necessary, inter alia, to: a culture of transparency, both in terms of the subject and in terms of the professional's own weaknesses and limitations. [[Statsrådet Storberget]] In criminal matters, the forensic commission provides valuable quality assurance. The Commission shall have a high level of professional competence and all reports made by experts appointed by the Court of Justice shall be subject to quality assurance by the Commission. In my opinion, this helps to ensure that material developed by legal experts in criminal matters is of consistently high quality. Important work has been done in recent years on quality assurance of expert opinions, such as: by the Røseg Committee, which looked at the collection, use and storage of health information by insurance companies, the Rognum Committee, which looked at forensic expertise in criminal matters, the Graver Working Group, which was set up early in our government period, which evaluated the use of health professionals in the justice sector, and now the last report of the Police Directorate on DNA analyses. The forensic commission has proposed a more targeted quality assurance of DNA analyses. Many sensible proposals have been made. Much is done, and more is coming. Of the proposals that have already been implemented, I would like to highlight in particular: training in forensics is strengthened. The course for forensic experts in legal and ethical matters is ongoing. Experts, judges and lawyers participate in these courses. A list of qualified forensic experts has been established. The forensic commission has developed a guide on investigations where unconsciousness is suspected at the moment of the act and a guide on how to describe physical damage to violence. I will continue to work to facilitate the high quality and correctness of the decisions taken by the courts and to avoid false convictions. I think the quality of Norwegian courts is good. We have few false convictions in Norway – fortunately – because one single wrong conviction is a tragedy. The examination of the Fritz Moen case, which I have initiated, will provide us with answers as to whether further action should be taken to ensure that the justice system can become even better than today. I would like to work towards the follow-up of this review report, and this work will have a high priority in the Ministry of Justice and the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e1506	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is clear that the latest issues that have arisen – the Council of State itself mentioned the Fritz Moen case – update the need to review why that kind of error can occur and how to ensure that it does not happen again. There's one thing I didn't touch. There are many types of experts, but if one makes use of, for example: Legally psychiatric experts, through today's legislation, may be forced into a form with which they may not always be so comfortable. I mentioned earlier that a year ago, Berthold Grünfeld wrote a chronicle against the assessment of whether an act is to be regarded as a psychotic, unconscious or mental retardation at the moment of the act, and how it gives a kind of black-and-white thinking – that one is either guilty of an act because one has to take full responsibility for those actions and was able to assess them, or that on the other hand one is deemed unconscious at the moment of the act. However, you can see how single actors, even though declared unconscious at the moment of action, have deliberately hidden their tracks, have tried to cover up criminal relations, and the action is often in a grey zone where it is not obvious that you didn't know what you were doing. But because you get a form of it, both in Section 44 of the Penal Code and in Section 56, which makes one into one thing or another in a way – and that's what the psychiatrists ask you to answer – a lot of nuances disappear. What you see in the legal system through the use of experts is that although there is only one element in the overall assessment, the influence becomes very strong. In particular, it is seen in the case of legal psychiatrists, because when the court attaches great importance to that assessment, it has consequences in terms of whether the person is given a judgment or is instead required to be, for example, a judgment. in a treatment institution. The consequences of this have, of course, been problematic in terms of the lack of well-organised services for the proper care of individuals, while at the same time providing protection to society. So there are many facets in the discussion about the use of experts – it's also about the premises they're going into. This does not mean that the expert necessarily does a bad job, but if there is no room for an overall assessment, with a kind of reasoning that is more complex, you might get out wrong. It is clear that it also gives the person facing a judgment the opportunity to take advantage of it as to what kind of restrictions are contained in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e1517	I see it as the debate around the legal psychiatry that the representative of Ballo is now moving forward is about two tracks. I also perceived the well-known forensic psychiatrist Berthold Grünfeld as perhaps trying to debate the issue of the justification of the rules of imputability such as these. And that is, of course, any legal psychiatrist to the extent that he is cordially welcome to participate in the debate. These are important questions. What is of interest to the question of expertise is to what extent you can have sufficient expertise in relation to, among other things. the difficult legal psychiatric issues faced by legal psychiatrists. Determining a psychosis, establishing other defined — either in legal context or in medical terms — medical terms is not always as easy. We also see that there have been legal terms that legal psychiatrists have refused to go into, among other things. to identify the risk of recurrence. I think it is essential that we have a lively debate about just these issues, because at the moment that legal psychiatrists feel uncertain as to whether conclusions can be drawn in this area, it is quite clear that it is all the more risky for the judges — and possibly legislates or experts — to make decisions on the same issue. It's important to have a lot of consciousness around. I believe there are two challenges to these issues that are particularly relevant in the work of the Government in strengthening legal certainty against the evidence to be provided. The first is to ensure that, in fact, it is the person designated to be a judge — whether it is a professional or a jury — who is to make the decision, whether it is a matter of the fact or whether it is found to be a fault or a fault. We must never get so far in this process of experts that we leave that decision to the expert in many ways. It's also part of the layman's stitching, when we're dealing with laymen in the court system. I think a lot would be lost at the moment we let go of it. My thesis in relation to this is that most of us are really as good as, among other things. to take decisions on debt issues as any expert. It's actually not an exact exercise. The second challenge we face is that in some cases, there are different rules of probability and evidence in the subjects than in, for example, in other cases. criminal law, where one must be convinced beyond reasonable doubt. We've seen trends in experts operating at a different threshold in terms of evidence protection, which in itself has helped to lower the level of evidence also in the criminal proceedings. It's a serious challenge that we have to be very aware of when we're designing new rules for expertise.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e1538	The representative, Ballo, is addressing an important topic today. Trust in the courts depends on us feeling that the decisions they make are based on the best possible basis. In complex cases and in some disciplines, it is necessary to use experts in order for the courts to have the best possible basis for taking the right decision. It may be in a civil case where the theme is if the house family purchased, they had defects that were invoked when the purchase was made, and an appraiser says it. Or it could be in a criminal case, maybe in a murder case, where the legal psychiatrist makes a statement about the defendant's health situation at the moment. As pointed out by the Council of State, the opinions of experts alone are not decisive for the outcome of the judgment. The Judge shall make an overall assessment of the evidence received in the case. But it is of course important that what the expert says is right, as their opinions are often given great importance. As Mr Ballo said, an investigation into the use of experts has been carried out in the United States. This showed that the errors of experts are one of the main causes of the murder of justice in the United States. This is, of course, a problem to be taken seriously and focused on, as there is a tendency to increase the use of experts in court, and the experts should be of high quality and perform a good job. We have not had so many cases in Norway where experts are responsible for the wrong conviction. But of course we must also try not to do that, as it is fateful for the one who is wrongly convicted, whether it is in a civil case, or – and perhaps even worse – in a criminal case. I am pleased that the Council of State has this theme in focus and that we, among other things, through the investment in DNA, improve the availability of safe evidence that can be used in the Norwegian court, for, as American researcher Michael Saks says, it's just DNA evidence that's accurate. Everything else is assumptions. We also have a safety valve through, among other things. The Resumption Commission and the Forensic Commission, which can give us an important correction if the mistake has first been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e1555	It is an important and good interpellation that the representative Ballo has taken up today, and I must say that he gave a very good account of a topic in these times very topical. The Council of State also presented what is to be done on this front. I am left with just a few questions on, among other things. this area where the Council of State was concerned, the question of the importance of the critical nature of judges and courts. After all, they shall have their own assessment of what the experts present. I guess that's good. How, though, are the courts and the judges constantly being critical and making the right decision? As Mr Ballo pointed out, we have unfortunately had a number of cases in which judges and courts have carried out an incorrect assessment of what has been presented by the experts. Is it perhaps that the expert environment is a little too narrow, that the experts come from the same environment? Is it perhaps an idea to try to recruit from the broader layer? Another thing is, should one think in the direction that the other party must also have access to its experts, who have been paid by the public? In general, it was a very good interpellation, and it was a very good explanation. But there are some questions that are troubling around, and to which it would have been nice to get an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e1566	I followed the seminar to which the representative, Mr Ballo, referred. It was an important seminar, because it wasn't just about two professors, it was the legal faculty and the medical faculty who chose to hold a professional seminar to raise a very important debate. What was quite interesting to me as a referee, was that some of the debate we got afterwards was about whether or not you need a jury. All right. One of the things that was said during that day at the seminar was that in a number of cases we had experienced that judges and lawyers had an excessive authority over other academic disciplines. Someone said then in quiet thoughtfulness: there aren't always laymen like that. – It was a reflection to reflection. I have to admit that it makes a certain impression on me that at this seminar one lawyer came after another and started talking about the jury. Now let the jury have their debate when you get that far. But every time I experience that a professional authority is challenged as to whether it is humble enough or critical enough, and then get a debate on another topic, I become highly critically puzzled. The American examples that the representative Ballo refers to here, they exist in a system that is different from Norway. In the U.S. system, the experts in defence and prosecution are experts. Those who are required to assess the experts — jury or judge — know that they are either the experts of the prosecution authority or the defence. In Norway it is different, here they are the experts of the Court. That means that there is basically almost some sort of impregnation around the experts. I'm not going to discuss whether we're going to change it in Norway. However, when experts are experts from the Court of Justice, it is clear that quality assurance requirements are very strong. Anyone who has been beyond the grasp of science knows that science is evolving, that scientific knowledge is evolving. We were documented at this seminar that e.g. The perception of what a bite looks like is so varied that in American cases, people have been released from the death penalty — some of them unfortunately after they have been executed. It's been so serious. It leaves a rather heavy reflection, that expertise is not one-dimensional. At the same seminar to which the representative Ballo refers, it became clear that lawyers and other academic disciplines do not mean the same – in percent – when they talk about a probability balance. The lawyers are talking about 50 pst. plus, while a doctor might want to talk about 95 pst, as the representative Ballo was about. These are aspects which at least make significant demands on the selection and quality assurance of experts and on the debate on experts. I want to be as constructive as Mr Ballo and say that in its time the Ministry of Justice had a series of free symposia in which difficult ethical questions were raised for debate. You took the role of lawyer, you took financial crime. I urge the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice to organise a symposium on the role and place of experts, to ask the critical questions that are to be asked – and as I think it is timely to ask after the Liland case, after the Fritz Moen case and after the Lange-Nielsen review of incests that we have had. That doesn't mean we're not going to have experts. It just means that we should meet experts as citizens of a society, as participating members – whether we should sit in a jury once or as co-judges – with a larger critical ballast. It also means that in the broad public we gain a greater awareness – not about whether we need professionals – but about how we should be more critically wondering about professionals. In the general debate, we are. The social debate is constantly made up of which professionals to listen to – pro et contra. One does not have to go further than to Gran School in Groruddalen to meet school students who have learned the philosophizing conversation, and who have thus learned that there is another way to reason on and accept arguments. It's completely possible. I would like to support the initiative taken by the representative, Mr Ballo, and ask the Minister of Justice to take the initiative from a free pulpit – which he has the opportunity to do – to ensure that what the University of Oslo debated is also taken forward in a debate. That's not how the critical questions can die, but get to live on – not to get the fascist answers, but to the critical reflection of the idea, and to make us all a little more humiliated the next time we meet something that's difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e1585	This matter is at my discretion in its ultimate consequence on the trust between the judiciary on the one hand and society on the other. There is therefore reason to thank Olav Gunnar Ballo for once again putting this issue on the agenda. I also think that the review that the Minister of Justice had absolutely helped to highlight the challenges and dilemmas associated with the use of experts, their role and the work they are doing in the judiciary. I'm going to focus on what's going on with the psychiatry and experts in that regard. In general, psychiatry has mainly focused on care and treatment based on the patient’s best – it should do so as well. This system is based largely on trust and progressive freedom under responsibility. But there is every reason to challenge the same psychiatry in relation to the fact that there may need to be two thoughts in your head at the same time, that you have to consider what kind of needs society might have for protection, what kind of risk society runs by releasing the person being assessed. It can be easy to believe that the health care system and the psychiatrist may be reluctant, for reasons of principle, to do that kind of assessment, because it is thought to collide with the medical role and with the care role, which may be considered to be the exercise. But it's equally very important, and I think society has a claim that you can do it at the same time. In fact, it's a cross of thought that we have so many cases of mentally ill people who commit serious criminal acts without having received sufficient coercive treatment in advance. It can testify to a culture – or a culture, perhaps someone would say – where psychiatrists in general think that these people should have greater freedom to move freely around, that society almost only has to live with the risk it is, and that not everything can be completely safe. So we can ask ourselves, is that in line with the leaders we have given by politicians, and in relation to how we expect the judiciary to deal with this? At least I believe that there is a need to get into and discuss this issue. Samples are also carried out under the direction of both the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Justice to look at these types of patients and clients in relation to the types of treatment they should have and how society’s security should be ensured. It is positive that health services are also taking the initiative to put this issue on the agenda. Ullevål Hospital and the Competence Centre in Health East and Health South will have a theme meeting on psychiatric experts next week. Media has, on several occasions in 2006, focused on what has been closely identified as a pattern, where expert advice and the conclusion of the court based on this has been systematically based on a conflict course of criminal justice assessment with regard to the basis for parole. For example, when you have: in Ila, professionals who follow the long-term detention judge who consider that there is a serious risk of repetition, and experts in the courts give false advice, may be asked who is the most competent body in such a case. At least it's not suitable to create security for the public when the views of the criminal justice community seem to be so systematically overrun, as we've seen here. These kind of front collisions in Norwegian courts, I don't think any of the parties are served. I am very pleased with the Council of State here, namely that there is a need to have even better and more systematic quality assurance systems in relation to the work that experts do in relation to the Norwegian judiciary. I think, as many people have been involved here, that the Torgersen and Moen cases are very sad reminders of what kind of serious consequences it can have for individuals whose work is not the goal of experts. Finally, I would like to challenge the Minister of Justice on how he will contribute to a higher level of social security assessment on the agenda, and that this aspect can be treated more equally in relation to the assessments of medical experts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e1600	The first thing that strikes me when I have followed this debate is that it is a privilege to have access to this pulpit, and also to this Chamber. I'm often surprised at how few people use that privilege. I want to comment on something. What the representative Dørum says, I think are timely considerations, for which I have a great sense. It strikes me – and I’ve thought through it – that I myself have been summoned twice, in two very different cases, as an expert witness. The first was, as I recall, in connection with a violent case – in fact, in relation to the previous interpellation – a matter of violence against a woman. It was intended to describe the findings made on a medical watch in relation to the damage suffered by the woman. Then you get into the courtroom and just describe the actual thing you've observed. And then you go out again, and you don't know the other way around in the courtroom. The only thing you are – at least I was – concerned about is giving a description as accurately and precisely as possible, so that those who are going to make an assessment can do it as properly as possible. Otherwise it will be e.g. in a murder case, where I was called as an expert witness together with two legal psychiatrists. You sit and follow the trial all day, and gradually you notice that you become an actor in the courtroom because you start to have sympathy and antipathy, and because you need to balance the thoughts of legal psychiatrists when you think they're unbalanced. In retrospect and at a distance, it's of concern. It is clear that you are making yourself an actor to influence the outcome of a lawsuit. I also think it's worth thinking – based on that kind of experience – that a legal psychiatrist can give a legal lesson that lasts for an hour and a half, and when the judge says that this has been going on for a long enough, the legal psychiatrist in a position where he can say relatively arrogantly that it hasn't been long enough – this is absolutely necessary. It is quite obvious, and I think that as far as the representative Dørum was concerned in his post, how common witnesses, common people who may have observed something, come to terms with such a situation, because there is so considerable authority from an expert to determine the premises for the outcome of the case. I think the Council of State has responded well in relation to the work done by the Government, but the challenge of taking this issue further to ensure quality is important. It is important that in the future we prevent corresponding misconclusions due to experts we have experienced to date. We all have a responsibility to contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e1612	The government will have many opportunities to discuss this issue and these issues. I also believe that the Storting will have a rich opportunity to do so, especially with regard to a good part of the areas that we want to raise. In order to challenge the Aspaker representative's challenge to address this, I believe that at least through the examination of the Fritz Moen complex, questions raised in the debate here could be addressed. It is clear that there is ongoing work on the question of expert assistance in the event of unexpected child deaths. I also think that the representative of Dørum's input into using the symposia we have in the Ministry of Justice is a fine opportunity to raise this issue. In conclusion, I would like to say that I think the representative Nistad has three approaches to this that are sensible, he asked three questions that we should probably ask ourselves in any regulatory design regarding expert involvement. The first is that more people have been in the business of being critical of the expertise. This does not mean that you should initially reject the expertise, but you have to be critical. And how can we learn to get more critical? It's about training, it's about building skills, and it's about criminal matters, especially in the jury cases, and it's also about getting legal lessons that hold. We have now sent out a proposal that the legal proceedings should be dealt with on tape. I think there are such things that are important, just to get the criticism in, not only against the expertise, but also against the evidence situation in general. It'll be important. So I think, under this criticism, that the dimension that Dørum's representative brought in is very exciting. That it is the professional professionals who first react to the threat to their own authority, and who, to a large extent, also position themselves in relation to other types of subjects, making themselves subordinate – in fact, this is far more true of professionals than laymen – are very interesting thoughts that we are going to have with us, among other things. enter the debate on the proposed new jury scheme. We should be open to that, because we often see in the legal context that those who really dare to ask critical questions are those who do not have some kind of profession, but who take the popular sense into consideration a problem, which the judiciary needs very well, and which we are going to take care of, no matter what jury order we get. So ask Nistad if the expert environment is not too narrow. That's a very important question. Especially linked to some small courts, the expert environment may become too narrow. It's an important challenge for us. He finally points to the question of counter-dictation, i.e. the possibility of getting more experts involved in a case. It's definitely important. It's an opening for it, but I think that opportunity we need to strengthen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e1623	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-24.ana.ud2205e1634	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
