ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e46	Honourable co-representatives! Former legation president Thor Haakon Knudsen has passed, 78 years old. He was born on 30 May 1927 in Tønsberg. He graduated from Artium in 1947, followed by military service in the German Brigade. Even before military service, he had started as a journalist in Tønsberg's Blade, where he was until 1956, when he started at the Right Press Office. He was editor of the Press Office of Höres 1958–68 and political editor of the same place from 1968 to 1970. In 1970 he was employed as an editor in the Sandefjords Blade. During the period 1970-71, Thor Knudsen was released from the newspaper while he was Secretary of State in the Ministry of Defence. Over 12 years, Thor Knudsen represented Vestfold on the Stortinget, elected by the Right. He was elected for the first time at the 1977 Grand Prix and set out for the 1989 Grand Prix. For eight years – from 1981 to 1989 – Thor Knudsen was a member of the Presidentship of Stortinget, as president of the Laginget. At Stortinget, Thor Knudsen came first and foremost to engage in defence and security policy – areas which, in the 1970s and 1980s, in the middle of the Cold War, were among the most central in the political debate both inside and outside the Stortinget. Thor Knudsen was a member of the Defence Committee for all his years at the Stortinget, where he was Vice-Chairman for two periods, and of the enlarged Foreign and Constitutional Committee. He also attended the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and, in the years 1985-89, was the head of the Storting delegation to this Assembly. He was a member of the Right Group Board from 1981 to 1989 and was in the same period a member of the Right Central Board. From 1983 he was a member of the Right European Policy Committee. Also outside the Stortinget, Thor Knudsen was strongly involved in defence and security policy. He was a member of the People's and Defence Board for a year and president from 1980. He was a member of the Norwegian Atlantic Committee for several years. His main arena outside the Storting was probably Norway's Defence Association, where he was active both locally and centrally. Thor Knudsen was president of the Norwegian Defence Association between 1989 and 1995. Thor Knudsen stood firmly anchored in the Right Value Conservative tradition. He always had his party's woe and well in mind, but even more so was the responsibility he felt to contribute to Norway's freedom and independence. He experienced the years of occupation as a young man, and it was probably the strongest driving force behind his ever-flavouring commitment to the defence case and to cooperation with the Western Allies of Norway. It was easy to like Thor Knudsen. He was an impassable man – always with a smile and a warm line. Right-wing leader Erna Solberg characterized Thor Knudsen in his necrologist as a «policy gentleman», and it is a characteristic of all of us who had the joy of knowing Thor Knudsen in Stortinget, can easily join us. We remember Thor Haakon Knudsen for his work in the Storting and shine peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e67	The representatives of Anne Margrethe Larsen, Per Olaf Lundtigen, Olav Gunnar Ballo, Britt Hildeng and Hans Olav Syversen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: by the Socialist Left Party Group on sick leave for the representative of Åsa Elvik from 31 January onwards and until further notice from the Central Party Group on sick leave for the representative of Rune J. Kieslaaen from 1 February onwards and until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave:For the county of Hordaland: Sigrid Brattabø HandegardFor the county of Nordland: Geir-Ketil Hansen
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e117	Geir-Ketil Hansen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e123	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Per Ove Width. – Other proposals are not available, and Per Ove Width is unanimously elected as chairman of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e133	The representative of Torbjørn Hansen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e137	On behalf of the representatives of Trond Helleland, Petter Løvik, Øyvind Halleraker, Jan Tore Sanner and myself, I would like to make proposals to oblige airlines to publish cancellation information and other measures to improve competition and passenger rights in Norwegian aviation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e142	The representative of the Svein Fleet will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e145	On behalf of the representatives of Jan Tore Sanner, Peter Skovholt Gitmark, Gunnar Gundersen and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal that, in the case of complaints about the Equations Fees for other real estate, the same treatment is applied to housing and leisure homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e150	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e164	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1160]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e184	The economic instruments for the long-term financing of the welfare state are central to any government. When the red-green government clearly marks a new course in the use of instruments that have worked well and have given good results, there is reason to stop and ask questions. For the Right, further development and protection of the welfare society is important in all areas. We probably share that view with all of the parties. We also want more and more people to have more of their own income to do more of what matters most to each and every one of them in life, in short: that the economy and freedom of choice of each family and individual must be secured and made more liberal. But in common with all these desires for improved opportunities in the welfare society of the future, they require new jobs, increased value creation and increased economic growth. So how do you secure this economic growth? And has the prescription that has now been used by the previous government given the desired results, or is there a need for the change in course of government and others have proclaimed? There is a broad consensus in this room that public funding should be provided for schools, care and health care – and that it also has an impact on economic growth. In fact, it's not like the opposition often tried to make it in the previous magnification period that especially the Right went in to rage the welfare state. It was actually set a record in public money use at the time. There is no target in itself, but when key welfare services are developed and ensured, it is good for users, and it also means something for economic growth. But, and this is a great but: it must be a responsible financing that does not choke the private sector. After the rhetoric in the election campaign, there is no doubt that today's government believes that the public sector is the most important in stimulating economic growth. Minister of Industry Eriksen said in today's business on 25 January: ‘Norway’s competitive advantage will never lie at a low level of taxation, but in all the goods resulting from a well-developed public sector.’ The issue of today's red-green government will then remain some space for the private sector, and whether civil society will develop and contribute to precisely the economic growth that will create the goods, or whether it will be created by public consumption itself. What, then, is behind the announced ‘active’ and the ‘new’ course of business and financial policy? The Stoltenberg I government left behind an economy that was not able to provide the necessary foundation in the long term to secure our welfare society. The central bank’s manager characterised the situation — in his laconic way — in his year-end winter 2002 by the mismanagement of the economy. And that's it. The economy and the labour market have gone hand in hand with special cost challenges. Since the end of the 1990s, wages had increased much more in Norway than in our competitors, so interest rates were much higher and the exchange rate was too strong. In order to put figures on it: in the second half of 2001, registered unemployment rose by almost a thousand per year. months. There is a clear contrast to the situation of the Bondevik II government, which left the government offices in 2005, when the unemployment fell by approx. 1 600 people per day. months. There is little doubt that Minister of Finance Halvorsen was quite right – yes, she may not know how right she was – when she said, at the presentation of the supplementary proposal in November following the elections: ‘Norwegian economy is solid. We expect strong economic growth next year, good growth in employment and a decline in unemployment.’ Last night's SSB figures show an increase in employment and exports in industry. It looks better than many years. The results for enterprises have been greatly improved and – the most important – tax revenues are increasing. That the policy of the Bondevik II government has worked, there is little doubt. It has functioned rapidly, measured in macroeconomic timescales. It is worth remembering that it took seven years before unemployment began to fall during the previous economic downturn, which was from the late 1980s to the early 1990s. The outgoing government, of course, does not take all credit for Norway’s success. A small and open economy is always affected by international economic cycles, and the growth has contributed positively in recent years. But these economic cycles affect all countries. There must be other reasons why the labour market and the economy have developed positively in Norway, while there have been negative developments in, for example: Sweden and Germany. This is a country based on precisely the ‘social-democratic medicine’. We know, for example: to the unemployment rates in these countries. What, then, was the policy of the Bondevik II government that created optimism and growth in the labour market and in industry? It may not be a big secret that the Bondevik II government's policy was to use large parts of the growth to secure and strengthen public services, balanced against the fact that part of the growth was used to strengthen the framework conditions for business through tax relief. In this way, the future basis for well-being and prosperity was strengthened. I think it's just this balance that has given the good results we're now seeing. Contrary to the image on the left, attempts to paint in a long campaign were actually made to secure and strengthen the central tasks of the welfare state. In fact, real growth in welfare was over the state budget of DKK 50 billion in the previous period, while tax relief was less than half. This means that a great deal of money was also spent to secure the well-being and prosperity of the future, by further stimulating Norwegian business. Now we see that this works. When today’s government says that it will unilaterally prioritize the public sector, it will have a major impact on long-term growth. The costs of the unilateral priority of the public sector, including nearly DKK 11 billion in tax increases in relation to the Bondevik II Government's proposals, will take prompt and direct action. In response to the Committee, the Minister of Finance has himself said that tax relief is less expansive in the economy than in the public sector. Productivity growth is consistently clearly higher in the private sector than in the public sector. It thus provides a policy which balances both the private and the public sectors, as the Bondevik II Government did, and which over time generates greater growth than by investing most in the public sector. We now see that we have a growth without any drop in unemployment, which is better than in other countries in Europe that we can compare with. Therefore, given the predictability of Norwegian business, it is now important to know what the Minister of Finance’s demand for ‘a clear new course for an offensive industrial policy’ — as it is called — implies. [[...]] For the time being, it's hard to see what it is. The Minister of Finance has recently come down from the high mountain and has declared that the responsibility for the use of oil money and the tightness of fiscal and budgetary policies will not be changed, that less oil money will actually be used than before. That is good and probably right, because all the instruments of the Bondevik II government are now taking too much action, and there will be a need to extend the good situation as far as you can. The right-hand side is satisfied with this. Whether the Minister of Finance's own will be equally happy when the message manifests later in a tight draft budget remains to be seen. Nevertheless, during the election campaign and after the elections, uncertainty was created in the Norwegian business world by the fact that major changes were to be made in the rhetorical bombastically. But the action is unclear. That's what this interpellation applies: to clarify what the change is. We know that there will be tax increases that will make it difficult with regard to future value creation, but beyond that you hear little. An even more active industrial policy will also require increased access to resources. We know what the most important resource is. It's labour. The SSB is now reporting a shortage of skilled labour. It also makes many individual businesses around the country. The Government shall provide appropriations for several action places in its budget. When the new government wants more employees in the public sector and there is already a shortage of labour in the business world, business access to labour will either be smaller or more expensive. If this is the case, together with increases in taxes on business, less competition and more government purchases of enterprises, which are active industrial policies and new courses, there is reason for great concern about private value creation, which must be at the bottom. The Minister of Finance has, for example, repeatedly sought dialogue and what has been called a so-called humble approach to the Storting on important issues. Nothing can be more important than the country's value creation and the conditions for business. I therefore look forward to a clarification, hopefully, of what she intends to change in terms of financial instruments, and what the more active industrial policy actually involves in terms of the current use of instruments. Or rather, let me say it this way: I hope for a clarification in relation to the fact that it might be less activity – based on the incoherent performances that have been received from individual councils. The industry policy pursued has worked more than well and the height of fall in change will be significant. I hope that, in the light of the good results we are now seeing, it will be realized that industry must have general incentives rather than selective support for weak enterprises, and that the Government, perhaps especially the Swedish Government, will come out of the coercion of 'lifts' on tax increases for enterprises and jobs. This is what will in the long term endanger well-being, especially when you see how this mixture has worked. We from the Right – and probably also the other bourgeois wing – will support such a policy by the Minister of Finance. In particular, it may be of interest to the Minister of Finance if there would be problems in achieving adequate disintegration, either in the Government or, for that matter, within his own party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e239	Before I go into the government's policy, I would like to comment briefly on the description of the development of the Norwegian economy by Mr. Storingsretten. Everyone can see that the activity is high. Employment is increasing, and unemployment is falling, and it's very happy. However, the driving forces behind the upturn in the economy are more and more complex than what is perceived in the fleet's interplay. The growth of the world economy has historically been very strong. This has stimulated growth in the mainland economy and has contributed to the gradual expansion of the Norwegian economy. Strong price growth in Norwegian exports has contributed to good profitability in mainland companies. Oil investments have been at a high level, well assisted by high oil prices. Low prices of imported goods, inter alia: from China, has contributed to a low price increase. With low interest rates internationally, the low price growth has also given a low level of interest rates in Norway. Together with a marked increase in income and wealth, low interest rates have contributed to high household demand. This has continued and partly strengthened after the government change. When the fleet is so satisfied with the Bondevik II government, he can actually also allow himself to be quite satisfied with the red-green government. But first of all, we need to be aware of how lucky we are because of a favourable development in the world economy, which Norway serves more than most other countries. The starting point for Government policy is the following recognition: Norway cannot compete with China for the lowest possible price of the production of goods. Norway cannot compete with India for the lowest possible price of the production of services. We need to focus on knowledge, development and conversion. It makes great demands on Norwegian business, and it makes great demands on us as Norwegian authorities. The main change that Norwegian business will notice after the government change is that our government will actively and offensively develop the Nordic welfare model further: We have a relatively high level of taxation compared to many other countries, but we also get a lot left to pay taxes, which others have to pay through private insurance.We have universal welfare schemes and a strong and resilient public sector, but it can get better.We have a cooperation with the social partners and an active labour market policy that has contributed to increased competitiveness, a good real wage development and a more flexible labour market than in many European countries. during the period 1990-2004. If we compare it to the production growth in the United States, which also has high production growth, we make them very clear. There has been productivity growth of 2.1 pst. The Nordic welfare model distributes fairly, is also effective and a very good starting point for operating. In order for us to be able to further develop this policy, it must contain the following six points: Point 1: We know that the growth of the mainland economy is crucial for the development of welfare in Norway. The contribution that petroleum revenues can make is not compared to the value creation of the mainland economy. Economic policy must therefore place the crucial emphasis on promoting sustainable value creation and the good use of resources in both the private and public sectors. Effective private sector resource use can be promoted through active competition and good regulation. The government will improve, renew and convert public activities in cooperation with its employees so that the services can be adapted to different needs. The government's objective is that the instruments of economic policy should together provide a basis for high employment and a resilient business. Point 2: The Government bases the rule of action on the use of petroleum revenues on budgetary policy. The rule for action is known in this room. It says that petroleum revenues are to be phased into the economy gradually, at the rate of expected real return in the State pension fund – Foreign, estimated at 4 pst. This will gradually increase the use of petroleum revenues to a level that can be maintained over time. Consideration of stable economic developments is given to a high degree to the budgetary policy guidelines: By way of capital formation in the State pension fund and the rule of action, the State budget is protected by fluctuations in petroleum extraction and petroleum prices. Gradual phase-in of the use of petroleum revenues to a sustained level reduces the risk of excessive and abrupt shifts between competitively exposed and protected industries. An over-expression of the competitive sector is often referred to as ‘Dutch disease’. At the same time, it is important to stress that the economic situation in the Norwegian economy is the seventh and last decision from year to year when we are to lie close to 4 p.m. – both above and below. This part of the rule of action, I think, may have been under-communicated in many of the political debates. This means, in sum, that budgetary policy should contribute to the stability of the Norwegian economy. It is not least important for business. Point 3: At the same time, the rule of action contributes to anchoring the expectations of the foreign exchange market by creating predictability of the phase-in of petroleum revenues in the Norwegian economy. This is the way to avoid unnecessary outlays in the krone price and thus in the profitability of competitive enterprises. Many of these enterprises have a significant impact on employment in districts. Budgetary policy and monetary policy must work together to contribute to a stable development in demand and production. At the same time as the action rule was introduced in 2001, new monetary policy guidelines were also introduced. In the short and medium term, the interest rate of the Bank of Norway must weigh the consideration of low and stable inflation against the objective of stability in production and employment. This means that monetary policy also has a clear role to play in stabilising economic development. Point 4: The government emphasises the promotion of an inclusive working life and a high level of professional participation. A key prerequisite for growth is good labour supply and a functioning labour market. Employment policy must combat exclusion from the labour market, and the tax system and social welfare systems must be designed to pay off for the individual to work. Strong departures from working life to different health-related social security systems are alarming, especially in the light of demographic developments. As you know, the government is in the process of exploring how the instruments of employment policy can contribute to the return to work of people receiving different social security benefits and to prevent exclusion from the labour market. In this context, we will also look at exclusion mechanisms that arise from conversions and closures. The government will invite closer cooperation on income policy with the social partners. This is an important and clear change in course compared to the previous government. Point 5: The government places great emphasis on fiscal stability and predictability. We have followed up the main elements of the tax reform, but at the same time the distribution profile of the tax reform has improved significantly compared to the proposals of the Bondevik II Government. The government's policy is to return to the 2004 tax level. Businesses must then know that fiscal policy is fairly firm and that there are no great surprises to come. Point 6: The government has great ambitions to further develop the Norwegian welfare model, and I totally disagree with interpellant Fleet in his description of what is a balance in the Norwegian economy. What this government took over was an economic priority that was very unbalanced, because the growth in the private part of the economy was so strong, while the growth in the public part of the economy was so weak that everyone could see the standard difference it was in what we actually believe is most important, both care, education and knowledge — all of these areas that are needed to balance the Nordic welfare model. It's a clear goal for us to strengthen that part of the Norwegian economy. It is also a good business policy. Full child care coverage and low prices are good business policies. This means that the problem described by the fleet in terms of access to skilled labour is reduced if this works. A systematic commitment to school, education and public research is also important for all to develop their skills and for business to have a skilled workforce. And it's important that this is accessible to everyone, not just to those who have money. When we want Norway to become an environmental policy priority country, it is a good industrial policy. There are very great opportunities for business in new technology development in combination with the environment. When we focus on transport policy, it is good business policy [[The President Clubs Again]] Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e317	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I also thank you for giving us the opportunity today to discuss such an important topic as the business environment and the future of the welfare society. I want to grasp one thing that the Council of State initially said, namely that we should be happy that we are so lucky. I think we should be very careful just to be satisfied that we're lucky. I think we have to do something to keep the hell going. If you learn that you're lucky and that there's a growth in the world economy, and that the economy is good, without looking at what you have to do specifically in your own country, I think we're on the way. That's exactly what the previous government did: they used tax policy, and they used other funds. And when the council says that when I was so satisfied with the Bondevik II government, I should also be satisfied with the red-green government, because it still goes so well, I have to say, yes, of course it does. After all, it's not just pinching your fingers in macroeconomic terms. It'll take time. I just said in my post that during the previous recession it took seven years before you started to get laid. And we're warning ourselves against leaning against just this with the economic cycles. So the Council of State referred to the oil investments and said that they contribute to helping. Yes, they have, but here was also the previous government active. In the revised national budget for 2004, we proposed a number of measures to improve the activity. And I think that the state council on its visit to Oslo Stock Exchange yesterday might have been told that a lot of new oil companies had arrived on the stock exchange. There are many small companies that are on a Norwegian base and that help us to gain greater diversity, greater activity and, in the long run, greater value creation. Then I also noticed that the Council of State said that the Nordic welfare model should be actively and offensively developed, and that is excellent. But she also said that it means that we need to have bigger revenues, and that means that the taxes are going to increase. The only thing I have seen today about the new active business policy so far is that tax increases can be reasonably certain – we already knew that. What is uncertain, and which I think the business community should know more specifically, is the size of these, whether they might be even bigger than what has been said, that they should go back to the level of 2004, especially when the Council of State is now so careful to be at least as responsible as its predecessor in the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e328	I did not say that we should lean back and be satisfied that we were earning so much on good international economic conditions. I said the fleet should be satisfied with the red-green government, which had managed to show such good results in such a short time. And then I said that in the situation we are now in, we need to be aware of how we are very favourablely located with regard to very many other countries, because we are importing more and cheaper goods while at the same time getting good prices for our exports, both on oil and on other export products. It gives us a double China effect. They're asking for many of our export products. That's why the price is high. They produce goods at low prices. Therefore, the price of imported goods is low. It's clear that there's a favorable situation for us now, but that doesn't mean we're going to lean back in any way. It just means that we have to make sure that what we contribute with both economic development and otherwise, at any time has to be top competent and always in advance, because it is in these areas that we are going to compete in the future. I think that many representatives from the Right unfortunately fall for the temptation to hear what they want to hear when talking about taxes. What this government has said is that we are going back to the level of taxation in 2004. That's at the base of $2 billion in tax incentives, and then we're going to keep that tax level ahead. It is important for Norwegian business to know that those framework conditions are reasonably established. Just as we know that we cannot compete at the lowest price possible, so we will not participate in any tax dumping. On the contrary, on the basis of the Nordic welfare model, we believe that a situation where important areas of activity are jointly financed is beneficial both for fair distribution and for industrial development. We can prove it, because the numbers of productivity growth we can compare with the United States and otherwise – show that Norway is very high, so this has been successful. It allows for the strengthening of the school and education systems and the efforts in research and development that we know are absolutely necessary, but also for policy projects that will have a major impact on business. We are now going to build CO2-free gas power plants. It requires technological developments that may have an impact not only on Norway and future gas power plants in Norway, but also on CO2 treatment in very many other countries. If we achieve this effectively both technologically and on the cost side, the state has been involved in developing an industrial policy area through a political decision. The same applies to new renewable energy, and the same will apply to the investments we make in the infrastructure. This is a very offensive effort to cope with the balance between having an efficient public sector, which rates on the infrastructure that is most important, and to facilitate the development of industry that, in interaction with the public sector, continues to be in close contact with Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e343	It becomes a bold race when the Right in this hall tries to produce everything that looked rose red under the previous government. Was it not the case that unemployment increased sharply from the previous government and until it went off? Was it not the case that around 100,000 more were left outside the ordinary labour market during the previous government period? Was it not the case that there were 25 000 fewer industrial jobs under the previous government? Yes, in fact, every day the previous Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance went into their offices, the number of industrial jobs decreased by up to 20 places. Then you're told that employment increased. It's at best a deliberate misuse of numbers. The proportion of the adult population employed fell under the previous government. From the year 2001 to 70,9 p.m. in the second quarter of 2005, there was a decrease to 69,0 p.m. There were several employed persons in the number, yes, of course, but the number of inhabitants in the working age group was also significantly increased during this period. I hear that the representative Fleet refers to the imbalance in the Norwegian economy – high exchange rates and problems for industry. Yes, it was in 2002-2003. It was actually after the government change and under the previous government. With regard to the issue of financial accountability, it must be allowed to show that the use of oil increased from SEK 1.5 billion under the government of Stoltenberg I to around SEK 70 billion under the government of Bondevik II. It corresponds to the entire budget of higher education, justice, culture, church, agriculture and environment combined. So please slow down the presentation that the responsible economic policy was so much more responsible than anyone else. There was a big deviation from the rule of action. This government has the ambition to stick to the rule of action on which it is based. There is a need for a new and offensive industrial policy, yes. The Labour Party believes that we need to strengthen research and to take a knowledge leap. We will establish a good funding mechanism for continuing education and training, and we will retain the Community's ownership of important natural resources. We will increase the framework for Innovation Norway, increase domestic use of natural gas, increase investment in transport, have national strategies in areas where Norway has taken advantage, strengthen cooperation with the social partners for an inclusive working life and have an economic policy that ensures the competitiveness of industry and a stable crown price, a business that must have stable and competitive fiscal conditions, as explained by the Minister of Finance. It is not the image of a dramatic weakening of the framework conditions for business that is the image of Norwegian business mediated. On the contrary, Norwegian industry gives the impression that they are very satisfied with the framework conditions imposed by this government. If the Right raise your eye from the Right PR department and look at what's actually the reactions around the community, they might also get an eye on it. A more active industrial policy is needed. There is positive innovation in relation to the ongoing transitions, but there are also problematic changes for many who are in these transitions. In my own home country, 1000 jobs were lost in the fishing industry in one year without the government lifting a finger to help. Then there is a need for a more offensive policy to meet that kind of change. It was paralysis, not action, that marked the work of the previous government in these areas. In addition, there is a need to address the opportunities available to this country. 100 years ago, Sam Eyde said, "Where there is a will, there is also a way." It was the start of the Norsk Hydro industrial venture. Business policy is also about having a will today. It's about having the right tools, and it's about having an active state that helps to facilitate such a development. Then, of course, the state must also engage in a wide field. Research and development, access to capital and ownership are some keywords, technology, transport and flexible tools are others. At the same time, however, we must also be willing to introduce an additional promise where Norway has special opportunities. I can mention as an example travel life and fishing and aquaculture. There are areas where we obviously have such advantages. Then, as the Olympic Summit does, we have to be willing to take an extra boost to lift these that have the opportunity to be the very best in the world, to actually be that. Then it is not useful to say that the Minister of Industry of the last government said that there is no tool in the toolbox. If you don't have the tool to use, why are you Minister of Industry? Isn't that how you get that tool? That's what this government has an ambition to do. Therefore, there is a need for an offensive and active industrial policy within the framework of a responsible economic policy, as described by the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e365	The Progress Party shares the interpellant's concern that the new government will not have its main focus on business and on value creation in its work. But the government should probably have some time before the judgment on the misguided policy can be dismissed. What you can do at this point, however, is seek action from the Government. When will the Government promote issues for the Storting that contribute to business growth and development? When will it promote issues that contribute to a significant reduction in the form field? And when will we get things that give a new optimism and commitment in business, and especially in SMEs? In particular, the government has announced an active enterprise policy. There were few interventions by the Council of State that outlined the nature of this active industrial policy. That's where the criticism of the previous government was. In the Business Committee, there are now relatively dry cases, and of the cases notified by the Government, there are cases that would limit the interests of business rather than strengthen them. New acquisition laws and increased state ownership signals are key in this context. If you read the chapter on industrial policy in the Soria Moria Declaration, you see that it's very good there, and the Progress Party can join a lot of it, but it needs action, and something should happen quickly. The size should be set in motion on issues of industrial policy, and as soon as possible. For example, what does the Government think? with the term ‘active enterprise policy’ in concrete proposals? What does the Government mean by the creation of a fund with a significant capital base? This can be impossible, then, things that you have to wait year and day to get to Stortinget with. It is also unclear whether the Government has its entire parliamentary basis in the field of industrial policy. There are still a number of unclear signals from a number of free-range deposit representatives in the government parties. Here, there are signals of increased public governance of business, little understanding that a high tax and tax level suffocates small businesses, and that others see fit to move abroad. The Vice-Chairman of the Government Party has been appointed to wind up Oslo Børs. Proposals have also been made to deprive owners of power by introducing workers-driven enterprises. Business feels a lack of security with the new government. As politicians, we need to safeguard the climate in order to do business, and the Storting and Government have a primary responsibility to create such a climate. But it has to be done, and it has to be done on business premises. Business and businesses, and especially SMEs, are the very foundation of society and ensure the secure framework we have around our society. It's the owners and employees of the companies that are going to create the values that we're going to live on and that we politicians are going to distribute. However, this requires a fundamental respect for value creation and for those who work and use their vitality in business. It also requires predictability, a low level of taxation and a strongly reduced form fields — it is enough to mention that 5000 annual works in enterprises are contributing to public reporting — an active enterprise policy, including an active industrial policy, and not signals of increased public governance and increased taxes. The time for the good speeches is simply over. It's no use criticizing the previous government that it didn't have tools in the toolbox, when you're not even able to find the toolbox.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e386	If we are to ensure future well-being, we need a strong business life. Then we need to listen to what business itself is going to do to ensure that business can also contribute to job creation in the future and to generate revenue for the private and for the public. Around the many companies we have, I have met no demand for a new business policy. On the contrary, what has happened in recent years seems to be highly satisfactory both in business and in the communities that depend on the competitive environment. We've got safer jobs, we've got more jobs, and we've actually gotten more tax revenue even if the tax levels are reduced. So there's a dynamics in this system. We've had lower unemployment, and we've subsequently also had a situation where the industry, according to the Central Statistical Agency, has increased its value creation and its employment. Then, of course, I'm all on the line with the interpellant, who said in his post that it's clear that we can't take credit for all of this, neither the previous government nor anyone else – here honor has to be shared. But it is quite interesting to note so much disunity between two representatives who have so far spoken – the Minister of Finance, who says that things are going very well, but that it is not the previous government that has the honour of everything, and the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen, who says that we have not done as well as we have claimed. To grips with what the finance minister said, no, it's not the previous government that has the honor for everything. But when the Minister of Finance tries to make it so that this positive development would have happened almost in any case, I thought it was a very easy way to comment on developments. The Minister of Finance said, among other things: in its observations that this level of interest, which has fallen in Norway, is due to an international low level of interest. That is quite correct, but what the Minister of Finance forgets is that when we took over four years ago, the level of interest rates in Norway was significantly right over the European level – a talk of 4-5 pst. And when the new government took over, that is, when we had to get out of government offices, interest was on a European level. It is not just the international policy that has an impact on this. At the same time, I think it is very easy for the Minister of Finance to think that about NOK 6 billion a year will make it easier by removing the investment fee, not having a bearing on Norwegian business. Let's disagree about this, but at least let's try to look a little bit forward. Then the question is, What are the elements we have seen of the new and active business policy? What we've seen is the exact opposite of the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen. I fully agree with Mr Schjøtt-Pedersen – and we in the Right fully support it – that the need for research and the need for innovation is as definitely present, as the representative quite rightly said. But why does the new government and the new large-scale majority start by cutting off the proposals that the Bondevik II government had at 100 million? kr for research and development? Why does a depreciation rate cut on machines and equipment, which we proposed to increase just to stimulate new investment? Why does a ratio for small and medium-sized enterprises make it worse by changing the taxation of these enterprises? Why is there talk of a lot of action, as the interpellant was about right now, which creates uncertainty about the future industrial policy in Norway? The uncertainty we are now seeing is quite serious. And once you've got these clear signals that one goes in sharp contrast to the one promised before the election, simply to stimulate research, development and innovation, it's the signal that at least I get a lot of signals if not very well received out. I hope that this debate will clarify a little more about what lies in the new business policy. At least let's hope for business and Norwegian welfare say that these changes in the future will be as small as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e401	The theme of this inter-pelling debate is very important, because it is really about how we are going to ensure the continuation and a positive development of the welfare society in the time to come. Despite Schjött-Pedersen's intense attempt at a depressive approach, it is an undeniable fact that Bondevik II got the order of the Norwegian economy. The arrows gradually pointed in the right direction, the sick leave went down, the unemployment went down, the optimism went up, and the interest rate and the dollar gradually came at a competitive level. This is important to go on. There is a great responsibility here for the Minister of Finance, above all. From the Christian People's Party's side, I would like to point out three important factors. The first is a follow-up to the tax reform. It is such that it had several elements, and one of the main elements was the introduction of exchange tax. In order to bring business into this, it was an agreement – or a ‘deal’ called ‘new Norwegian’ – that one would introduce an exchange tax, but then one would reduce the property tax at the other end. It is not met. It is probably in a large part of business that the social contract is not fulfilled. Therefore, the Minister of Finance will receive advice from me – free of charge. My advice is that the Minister of Finance can assess how to reduce taxes on wealth on working capital. It would be a step in the same path and would certainly be well received by the business community. So research and development are important. Here our government was offensive, with a commitment to basic research, with increased access to nutrition research, and to establish a close cooperation between the research community and business. In addition, it turned out that the FUNN was a very nice system, which we wanted to expand, and which we hope the red-green government will take care of, further develop and process, to say so. But it disappoints us a little bit that the government is showing a lack of willingness to invest in research. Among other things, the weak permissions of the research fund are a very bad signal. The third point I want to mention is on a holistic innovation policy. Here again, I would just like to remind you of the recording that came from Bondevik II as late as August 2005, where an innovation lift was built up around three factors: first, a heavy knowledge base; second, to prioritize participation in international cooperation programmes; and third, to make the Government's Innovation Forum a central meeting place for authorities, businesses, investors and other partners. But in addition to these three factors, I want to mention two honor words, which have to be filled with content. It is ‘foreseeability’ and stability. In fact, in such a context, a four-year period, a growing period, is very short, for the tax reform that is now being implemented, has been over three major periods. Therefore, it is a challenge to find mechanisms that can ensure that long-term planning means a longer time perspective than just a four-year period. Finally, I have to enter an important part of Norwegian business, namely the family businesses, which account for two thirds of Norwegian businesses, and which also accounts for 45 pst. the value of production, value creation and employment of industry. What is characteristic of family businesses is that most of them think in the long term, they have a local connection, and they make a strong contribution to growth and development. Therefore, I also hope that this government that we now have can focus heavily on the family businesses' framework conditions. I would like to see the Minister of Industry present in the United Kingdom during this important debate on the framework conditions for business, but I hope the Minister of Finance will make sure that the Minister of Industry gets a full report from the debate. I also hope that the Minister of Finance noticed my recording of the follow-up to the tax reform, that dividend taxes can be linked up to a reduction in the wealth tax on working capital. Because, as I said, here, business is probably still feeling that there's something of the social contract that's not being fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e418	The general framework conditions for business profitability are very crucial, and, as the interpellant said, interest rates are a central factor. We are in a situation of international low interest rate policy. With an increasingly free flow of capital, the consequences in Norway also have to be a low interest rate, if we are to avoid excessive exchange rates. When we have a low interest rate in combination with our debt-debt rules for individuals, we get strong growth in investment in the private sector. This is a very important driving force behind today’s high activity in the private sector. This is a fact which, in the view of the Centre Party, must be given greater importance in the public debate in order to gain a greater common sense of reality in order to discuss instruments and priorities of economic policy in the future. We know the right-hand position very well, but we're more excited about the right-hand position in the opposition. Instead of getting a repetition today of the debate we have had in the past, we want to have a discussion about what is the Right’s position on key issues of enterprise policy in the future. The industrial power regime is very central to many enterprises in Norway, perhaps especially to the woodworking industry. In the spring of 2005, members of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Advance Party went in to ask the government to establish a new industrial power regime. The right was the opposite. The Red-Greens then put forward their commitment to the oil and energy ministry budget, and in the remarks on the budgetary position, the Right, together with the former government parties and the Progress Party, went in to turn the issue of industrial power regimes. This is interesting. Interestingly, on such a central issue, the Right is willing to reconsider its previous position and make a social contract idea, which is legal in the EEA context, that we can establish an industrial power regime in the future that will ensure that part of the industry has a raw material supply and a price level of electricity that is so that we can achieve profitability in production. Another key issue of industrial policy in the future is the geographically differentiated employer charge. The signature of the EEA Agreement in 1992 specifically stated that a differentiated employer’s fee was not to be included in the agreement. We know that there are many Europeans in this room who have gradually disagreed with what has led us into a situation where we have significant difficulties with a precisely geographically differentiated employer fee. Now we are in a situation where it is to be revised, and the interesting thing is whether the Right is also willing to follow the Government in assessing that there are larger parts of South Norway to be covered by a lower geographically differentiated employer’s fee – more areas than just Hedmark and Uppland. We know that parts of the Agder counties, Sogn and Fjordane, Buskerud and Telemark are in the same situation. It's important to get a clarification on that point. In the context of the tax reform adopted by the previous enlargement, the system effect is such that a business that is organised as an individual enterprise – and therefore with unlimited liability – is taxed more disadvantageously than companies that are organised as a limited liability company. This is something the Center Party, and the Government, will have to look at the future. Will the right on that point also be willing to look at the negative system effect that we have here – in the disfavor of individual enterprises, those with unlimited liability? And finally, fiscal policy: what are the main challenges for business? For the Central Party is a central heading: What do we want with Norway? We now have a central opportunity to build a modern country. We therefore want the reduction of distance costs through active action in the field of transport policy to be a central and crucial development in order to ensure a profitable business. Does the Right want to give priority to transport investment over continued tax relief, thereby facilitating the reduction of distance costs – which is central to so many enterprises? Can we modernise the business environment, secure housing, ensure that young people can build and live – across the whole country?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e436	This is an exciting and important interpellation, but it's also so open that it invites you to keep posts about a lot. There is a danger here of picking up, as some of the debaters have so far done, well-stocked slogans from the election campaign and from the party program. You can probably do that and shoot past each other. I could have done that, but I shouldn't have. I'm going to take part in the reflections on history writing, and I'm going, based on my experience in the last few years, to encourage you to build down the rhetoric a little bit. I have experienced being part of the government over the last four years. Actually, I can divide them into two periods. The first two years were very demanding in finding out about important things in the Norwegian economy. The central bank manager was right when he said that living after Stoltenberg I was an economy of illegitimate nature; it was a force in the economy for increased unemployment. Thank you very much. The tough roofs were taken – to the great delight of the opposition in meeting with this, but it was nevertheless done. Then we went into a new two-year period, where things went in a much better direction. We have now seen that very much of this came from outside. There is no doubt about it – most of it came from outside. But we also contributed for ourselves – there is no doubt about that either. But I might even say it this way: all the good that came from the outside could have been ruined, if we hadn't had the ability to do the right priorities and take some tough thank you. I think I might also be so polemic as to suggest that the Minister of Finance's own economic policy had been prevailing in the last four years, I fear that she had had a much worse situation to be Minister of Finance in now. I would nevertheless admit that we would like to – I think I dare say on behalf of the previous government – to have experienced that unemployment figures had begun to fall before. We sat there for a long time and wanted to. We did not fully understand why the effect did not come before. We saw companies deploying new technology, increasing efficiency and taking out the capacity they had, before they started adding more in 2005. That's why we now see the effect, they've first taken advantage of the capacity. We should also have seen that the dynamic tax policy had had effects even earlier, but so we also got too full in 2005. The fact that the tax increases to the country began to go beyond 2005, although taxes had been reduced, is evidence that this is working. The level of taxation and the mechanism of taxation are important in industrial policy. Sometimes I think politicians and finance ministers will feel that it is being over-reacted to the importance of small changes in tax policy, and perhaps rationally right in it. But it's also a reality that it is. I want to be quite honest: if we are sure that we will not be worse off than we are going to be at the 2004 level in terms of the level of taxation, I think we will be able to do it in a useful way. I will then pay attention to the fact that it must also be kept. But it is clear that the tax system mechanism is a cause for concern. It is a combination – which we have all been involved in – of raising capital taxes in order to achieve a fairer tax system, and to bring about a smoother tax on labour and capital, and the policy of the new government, to increase and maintain the wealth tax. The sum of that tax quickly evicts national ownership out of the country. I'm afraid so. The companies look at their expenses and their profits, but we would like Norwegian owners living in Norway, behind many of the companies. The sum of what happens here in terms of taxing ownership, I'm very worried about. What happens in Norwegian companies now? They're sitting in their glass ball. They were probably a little worried about the change of government, but then they saw a government that might not have been as dangerous as you could believe, a finance minister who quickly learned to meet with the Ministry of Finance, and a prime minister whom they trust will not do anything very wrong in business policy. I think that's the situation. They look at cost developments, they look at labour supply in the future, as they experience it, they look at interest rate developments, and they look at what might be the competitive advantage they might have. I also want to focus on what they see as political signals. I would like to end there by giving a small warning to the Minister of Finance, because this is dangerous for businesses – for example. when a new acquisition law is notified, where the State Secretary and the Prime Minister refer to Germany and suggest a fine of one million per. a job if you change. These are enterprises that are fighting for jobs in Norway by investing and that know that we are going to face many small and large Unions in the future. These are dangerous signals. Using state ownership against other shareholders, which appears in today’s newspapers, scares owners out of Norway and is also a dangerous development.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e447	After the last article and a couple of other posts, I think I'm going to have a little quote from Olav Duun. He says somewhere, a little freely quoted, ‘It’s strange with the helmsman, he sits and looks back all the time – can’t he look forward?’ I would first of all like to thank the representative Fleet for having, through this interpellation, actually highlighted what I see as a very important topic. Mobilising value creation is an important prerequisite for the distribution and construction of the entire welfare society. Through the majority government, industry can in the future rely on long-term and stable framework conditions. Cooperation between private and public enterprises is in many ways a prerequisite for industrial development. In this sense, the local economy also has a significant impact on the ability of municipalities to facilitate local economic development. Municipalities that have a well-developed infrastructure, good living environments, good schools and care for the elderly, high child care coverage and a living cultural life are better placed to attract new establishments and skilled workers than those who do not. In fact, the welfare society that we've laboriously built up here in the country is one of our greatest comparative advantages and what makes it primarily attractive to business. We have to build on that. We can't bet on low-cost products. We must build on the well-being and the level of costs we have in this country. Highly skilled labour, well-developed health services, a good school and a good education system are important framework conditions for business. The gender equality policy we have pursued over many years is also important in this way. Good childcare and maternity arrangements that allow for the combination of family and work have contributed to the participation of women in the labour market in the same way as men. By increasing professional participation, inter alia: from women, economic growth in Norway has grown more than in many other countries. I also allow myself to mention that immigrants today contribute significantly to the economic growth of Norway. This is also an important framework for business. Nor have I understood that some parties later to believe that public services are less valuable than private services. Public service activities are considered as expenditure items in a budget, while private service activities are value creation. We have to be good at creating, to have something to share. We're better at creating if we share fairly. That is why I am pleased that we have now received a government that has raised industrial policy to the political agenda, and that facilitates an active industrial policy with a full toolbox. That means we're waving goodbye to business neutrality, and we're deliberately betting on sectors that have vitality and potential for development. In this respect, I allow myself to mention both the marine sector and the maritime sector as important areas of economic development in Norway. Let me then point to an example that might be close to the interpellant: Color Lines bet on a completely new concept for ferry traffic between Norway and the continent and investment in the order of 7 billion kroner, triggered by the net pay system for seafarers. This is self-discipline in the importance of a stable framework for business. During the past few days and weeks, together with committee colleagues and colleagues on the Vestfold bench, I have visited a number of different companies. Without exception, they underline the following elements that have an impact on positive economic development: 1st@item: inlistbox Stable framework conditions2. Stable crown price3. stable interest rate developments4. Investment in research and development5. Access to skilled labour6. Involvement in transport These are important elements of the Government’s industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e483	One can discuss the causes and effects, and the Progress Party rather the theory that the development of the Norwegian economy is largely influenced by global developments, i.e. that neither Minister of Finance Halvorsen nor the former Minister of Finance, Per-Kristian Foss, has, nor had, a significant influence on the macroeconomic conditions affecting the Norwegian economy. The interpellant uses the term ‘responsible budgetary policy’ to describe the failure of the previous government to link the country’s unexpected large revenues to the nation’s investment and maintenance needs. Few would think it would be more responsible to save money for the purchase of a new car once in the future than to do basic and necessary maintenance of the car you have. That's exactly what was the truth about the financial policy of the Bondevik government. While transport, health, justice and defence infrastructures are overdue, endless sums of money were set aside to enable the next generation to have all the prerequisites for becoming interest-raters, and therefore can afford to build everything from the bottom of or buy everything again. This is not a responsible economic policy, but a very short-term and irresponsible economic policy. One would then think that the Stoltenberg government would want to do something about these infrastructure deficiencies and thereby generate greater economic growth. But that's not what's going on. Under the mantra ‘more Community’, several billions are to be injected into public consumption in the hope that public services will improve. In order to achieve this, no funds shall be earmarked, no structural changes or conversions, despite what Halvorsen said instead, shall be carried out in the public sector – these shall be stopped – and competition in the service sector shall be restricted or terminated. A lot of money is to be injected alone, hoping that the services at the other end will improve. These hopeful measures will then be financed through increased taxes at the level of 2004 as well as an increasing annual use of the country’s profits. Such policies will result in less productivity and therefore less public revenue, while more people will receive public transfers as the main source of income. Such a policy is likely to delight many in the short term, but will not be sustainable in the long term. I want to remind the Council of State that today we have 1 million children and young people, we have 800,000 pensioners, 330,000 unemployed, 110 000 unemployed and 800,000 public employees – that is about. Three million people. So we have 1.2 million people in what's called value-creating business. Yes – there's a difference between government employees and private sector employees, we're actually going to have something to live with, we're going to have something to use for well-being, so we need people in the private sector. The representative Schjøtt-Pedersen criticised that there was fewer industrial jobs during the previous government. Well, we're going to see how many industrial jobs this government can maintain and create. I doubt, and I also doubt that Schjøtt-Pedersen believes that there will be more industrial jobs in Norway in the next four years. The option of the Progress Party is to take the best of both worlds. Absolutely impossible, everyone will say – but that is not really impossible. Because it's not so socialists later to think, that a penny less in tax will mean a penny less in welfare. Lower taxes and charges combined with investments in infrastructure will create the prerequisites for increased activity and thus increased revenue. The cake to be distributed to well-being is then growing and can mean better well-being for everyone. The progress party also departs from an arbitrary and useless rule of action, which otherwise has never been followed. So it's a rule that everyone thinks is very good, but no one follows. We will take into account the economic cycle and use money where the Norwegian economy has free capacity. Furthermore, we will invest in the future by maintaining and reinvesting in infrastructure that improves the framework conditions for business, investing in equipment that reduces hospital cows, investing in capacity to reduce prison queues, investing in equipment that helps to falsify the offenders, and investing in defence equipment that makes it possible to maintain a credible defence and our obligations in NATO. These are investments which, if necessary, can be made abroad, if absolutely desired, and which create minimal pressure in the Norwegian economy. Often it is that you have a tendency to romanticize the past. But the right one should be right. The Bondevik government made a lot of sense on the tax and tax side of its reign. However, the interpellant becomes a little historyless when he falls for the temptation to describe the Right Government's time as almost perfect. I remind you that the Right suffered a sinister election defeat, and the voter's judgment should not be ignored, but on the contrary take lessons from.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e509	If there is something that characterises the promotion of industrial policy by the Stoltenberg II government, there is a need for a new course, policy to be active and offensive, and many new tools are needed in the toolbox. Of course, this rhetoric creates expectations and not least heights. So far the government's efforts are marked by the fact that there is a long distance between word and action. The government has, among other things: promised in the Soria Moria Declaration that a more active ownership of the holdings in which the State holds shares shall be exercised. There was then no lack of public support for the new policy of prominent representatives from the Red-Green parties. The Labour Party representative Jan Bøhler requested in the VG that the State buy up in Norwegian Forest in order to prevent the closure of the Union. The representative of the Central Party Lundtägen went out in the Newspaper and demanded that the Swedish Social Security Fund increase its ownership in important Norwegian industry in order to prevent foreign purchases. SV's parliamentary leader, Inge Ryan, would give 40 pst. by the votes of the general meetings of the companies to the employees. SV's Vice President, Audun Lysbakken, was attacked by Oslo Børs himself, and SV's representative Vaggen Malvik would intervene against the activities of Norwegian oil companies in poor countries. All political figures from the government parties have demanded that the Government enter as owner and prevent Telenor and Telenor Venture from selling the Information in 1881. The representative Vaggen Malvik actually threatened today's business today to replace executives in Telenor if the information was sold in 1881. I am pleased that the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Industry have individually given clarifying and negative signals both to the undersigned and to others on most of these questions. The government has so far virtually canceled this part of the new active business policy. I believe that such political intervention in the conversion processes of commercial companies via state ownership would be clearly unfortunate for the ability of companies to care for the interests of their business and clearly in conflict with the interests of other shareholders. In addition, such interventions would damage the reputation of the State, not only in the role of direct ownership or as indirect ownership through the Swedish Social Security Fund, but also as independent authority in relation to business. I particularly appreciated the fact that the Minister of Finance stated that the Swedish Social Security Fund, as a well-respected manager of the Norwegian stock market, should continue to be a professional and passive financial investor, so that Lundtigen's ideas of using the fund as a kind of defense wall against the world around us are solidly parked. But there is still some doubt about the Government's plans for new acquisition laws and ideas put forward in the media about imposing fines on companies that put down what the Government considers to be profitable jobs. I would appreciate very much if the Minister of Finance could say a little about his assessments of the social consequences of imposing greater costs on businesses and increasing political intervention in the field of conversion. These interventions are likely to be tempting in some situations, but they also have a significant signal effect on businesses that consider investing in Norway. I would also like to remind the Government that a good and forward-looking industrial policy is not just a law to preserve and lock current businesses and business structures, but perhaps to create more jobs in Norway. There is one thing I see as fundamentally negative with the new government's financial and industrial policy. The government has increased the taxes by nearly DKK 11 billion through the changes made to the 2006 National Budget proposals of the Co-operation Government. The level of taxation in general, and at a more nutrient-specific level, was increased. In particular, it was unfortunate that the depreciation rates for machinery were cut and that the property tax was increased. I then assumed that tax snipers might come back to business to some extent through new so-called active measures. I thought maybe some of the money would have gone to new nutrient research, or new initiatives directed by Innovation Norway or SIVA. On the contrary, the Government has also cut research and development and industry-specific policies in the areas that were previously marketed as active enterprise policies. This is becoming 2–0 in disfavor of business – taxes are being increased, business policy is being cut. That is why I believe that the Minister of Finance's warning of a clear new course for a public enterprise policy must be in the category of 'unfair marketing'. And nothing in the Minister of Finance's posts today is correcting this impression. Having said that, I would like to commend the Minister of Finance for emphasising a fundamentally important business-neutral instrument, namely the restrictive use of oil money. Responsible fiscal policies are important to improve the prospects of all businesses and jobs. Then we will see whether the responsible signals also result in responsible budgets. But who would think that it was the business-neutral policy that would be the government's best card compared to business?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e530	Today’s debate shows that the opposition, and in particular previous government parties, have a relatively high need to attack the current government’s policy, and in part also to tailor the policy of the previous government. That makes sense. Fortunately, today, we received a more nuanced presentation from the representative Lars Sponheim, who pointed out in his contribution precisely and correctly the significant impact the situation abroad has had on the Norwegian economy and on Norwegian business in recent years. Many of the positive effects we have seen have been directly influenced by demand and production conditions abroad. The low price increase, which has been useful for our own competitiveness, has been directly influenced by the price increase abroad, which Sponheim also pointed out correctly. In a globalised world, we are taking advantage of demand conditions abroad. I think it is a good thing that it also comes out when a business policy and economic policy are addressed to the current government. On the other hand, I think that the representative Ingrugig Sørfönn is manufacturing the government's investment in research something unhealthy. When he describes the situation, it seems that the current government has done a real cut in the research effort. That's not right. The current government has, among other things: increased the Research Fund by DKK 14 billion. The previous government parties also agreed when examining the research report. There were now some changes in the final phase of the budgetary process that increased the investment, but it was a aftermath that came at the very end of the work of the former government. One of the most important framework conditions for Norwegian business is the commitment to commerce, as LO and NHO continue to point out in their input to the political parties. The fact that the new government has increased its turnover relatively significantly — at the base of half a billion dollars — is not mentioned, or mentioned in a small bracket, when talking about industrial policy. I want to mention a little example from my own family, which is important in this context. It was set by $40 million. kr to increase the carrying capacity of the Meråkerbahn, which has a direct positive impact on the Norwegian woodworking industry, i.e. Norwegian Forest and other woodworking industry in Trøndelag. There will be a direct reduction in the cost to the business of around 8 million. kr a year – maybe a small number, but important enough for those companies. The previous government parties went out and promised the same bet, but when the budget was presented, it was not set off at all. So we see that there are elements in the policies of the former government that need to be looked at more closely and that are not in line with the picture that is later trying to create of the economic policy that was pursued. For us in the Centre Party, the commitment to transport is very important also in the future. We hope that we will be able to increase that bet further. It will be extremely important for business and it will be important for regional development.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e545	First of all, I would just like to thank the inter-pellant Svein Flötten for this debate, because it is a useful and good debate. But I feel in many ways that the representative describes the wrong reality. A reality is described in which we in Norway have a particularly high level of taxation, and where this is a major competitive disadvantage for Norway. But reality is not like that! Another reality is that we are fully in line, around the average, in terms of corporate taxation, which is the most central, and what is crucial for both setting up and opportunities for businesses and investors in Norway. Anyway, it won't be on the track half we're going to compete on. We will always be able to compete with some of the Eastern European countries at tax level. We have to have other areas where we're best at business and organization. What characterizes our business life is that we have a high level of competence. We have a high level of competence for a relatively reasonable payment, we have self-employed workers, and as a result we have one of the world – if not the world, according to some studies – the highest productivity per person. hours of work. We have a very high level of adaptability in Norway, and we have a division of responsibilities between public and private in that we have a public insurance system for employees and a public insurance system for the expenses of companies for a good deal of things. It's an exaggeration to say that Right Policy has been a success, because not even among Right Own Election Groups, who are very concerned about these things, it was so that people went man of houses at the election and gave Right Good Credit for the policy that has been pursued in the last four years. I also think it is an exaggeration to say that it is the policy of the previous government that now leads to a strong decline in unemployment. It is a fact – we were in the context of the debate on the State budget too – that the decline in unemployment would increase with our government budget compared to the budget provided by the previous government. If we go around talking to business people in Norway, from businesses of different sizes, it's not tax they're by far the most concerned about. No, they say it's not the most important thing. For them, there are important stable framework conditions, an instrument that is in place and ensures that they can get started and lubricate the entire machinery and start-up of new businesses, opportunities for further development, research, etc. and good access to well-trained and skilled labour. Then we have to do the job of providing people, having workers who are in good health, who are ready to do a job, and who have the training needed. What we want to do is bet on the public, which the right-hand side down priorities over the last four years. The mantra was that the growth of public expenditure was to be less than the growth of the total domestic product of mainland Norway. We've said that what's needed in the next few years is a commitment to people's education, because it's good and important both for the transition and for the further development of a knowledge industry. It is also important to bet on kindergartens, because it is good for both children and parents, and because it also increases the supply of work. I have friends who are not sure if they get back to work after maternity leave because there are not enough kindergartens here in this city. We need to bet on education, on training and on research. And we have to bet more on the people who get into unemployment. I was recently at a seminar that showed how a good part of the people who are being pushed out of industry are having trouble getting back to work and instead of being in trouble, because we don't have an offer for the unemployed who are good enough to make sure they get back to work. To get to all of these things, we need an active public sector to get in place, to lubricate business and to make sure there are enough people. So there's enough creativity out there to be able to move this country forward with the world's highest productivity in the years that are coming as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e571	When an experienced fiscal politician such as Mr Schjøtt-Pedersen calls for a startling picture of the period 2002–2003, without reference to the policy pursued ahead, it is amazing. We all know, I think, that these functions take time. The shot was turned around, and in the same way, the results are now being seen after the new government has gone on. There is a delay in this. Schjøtt-Pedersen further says that the previous government never lifted a finger to save jobs. No, you've seen how easy it is to save jobs by lifting your fingers. The Union is a good example of this. This is precisely what the current interpellation is about — not about saving jobs, but about creating jobs. What are the tools for creating jobs in the future? The representative of Asmyhr pointed out that it is too early to pass judgment. Yes, it's too early to take the verdict, but it's not too early to call for what has been so strong to say is going to happen: something new will come, there will be a major change in business policy. That's what business is waiting for. That is why it is important that we call for this today. I can see that a lot of people are busy. Then I would like to pay a visit to the representative Lundtigen. He doesn't want to talk about his own business policy. He just wants to ask what the Right could think of doing. I will meet him on this with the sole proprietor, when he asks what we think we can do. He has, on his side, increased the wealth tax and removed part of the payroll deduction. We have promoted a Document No. Today's 8 proposals, which will make it easier for wealth tax, especially for those in the primary industries, to reach between 50 million. NOK 100 million. kr. The proposal is therefore recommended. Finally, a visit to the representative of Gullvåg, from my own county, who rarely takes the floor in this room without mentioning the subsidisation of the tax-free trade between Sandefjord and Stroemstad. I'm sure that's excellent. But I think that business policy has to go a step further, and then I want to hang on to what the representative Sørfonn was into here. He asked the Minister of Finance to include a record of this interesting debate – I think many think it has been interesting – to the Minister of Industry. That's what I wanted to do. It is important for the Minister of Industry to know what is going on in Stortinget. This debate has shown that we could also imagine discussing this with the Minister of Industry himself. If he takes his toolbox, which, as I see it, is certainly not too heavy to carry at the moment, he too will be warmly welcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e584	I want to thank you for a lot of interesting articles. I don't think there's been any tendency to big black paint, but some people may have allowed themselves to drop a little. It stands in stark contrast to what I saw yesterday at Oslo Børs, a new «all hour high»; it goes very well as the situation is now in Norwegian business. Then there is someone in the debate who has called for the Minister of Industry. To the interpellant I have to say that it is actually that if you address an interpellation to the Minister of Finance, you get the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Economic Affairs has other assignments today, and he is of course ready to come to the Stortinget at any time to talk about industrial policy. So a little bit for history writing, which maybe often gets a little bit too much of the debate. Firstly, I agree with the representative Sponheim that what is now the most interesting thing is to see how unemployment and the labour market continue to develop. I'll come back to that a little bit. Unemployment has slowed down than you would imagine. There might be a lot of reasons for that. But at least what we know is that in the future it is a big challenge for us to be able to match those who are now on the outside of the labour market, with the new number of jobs that are coming – because it comes. So to the little sleigh parks about SV's accountability or irresponsibility. I see that one of the really great opportunities that SV now has, especially because we have the Minister of Finance, is to end the discussion of economic policy on a scale from responsible to irresponsible. It's about different policy priorities, and I've set myself the goal of getting more attention around it in the future. So a small assessment of this is about the cyclical situation in the Norwegian economy and the rule of action. Both the Progress Party and the SV have, in opposition to the discussion about the rule of action, perhaps been too little concerned about the degree of flexibility in implementing the rule of action, because it is in line with the rule of action to place considerable emphasis on what is the economic situation in the Norwegian economy. It's a very important and essential element. That's also what's going to decide the oil money usage in the future. The most exciting thing in the years we are now facing, and in particular the next year, is what pressures we get in the Norwegian economy. We can already see signs when it comes to the housing market and the property market in general. Prices are high, and debt is increasing among individuals. But there are also trends in the lack of labour in some areas. The real challenge for us and for Norwegian business is to provide the right skills in a timely manner. This demands a very high level of labour market policy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e599	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e617	An increasing proportion of the population in Norway lives alone. In 1960, there were 15th. by Norwegian households of one person, while the current proportion is 38 pst. In Oslo, more than half of the households consist of one person. Single-person households are particularly common in urban centres and in some scattered areas. While it was most common in the past for an income to support the whole family, most families now have two incomes to live on. Those who live alone, on average, come out worse financially than those who live with someone. According to the Central Statistical Office, one who lives alone has an average of NOK 200,000 in expenditure each year. Couples without children only have NOK 160 000 each, i.e. the sole resident has NOK 40000 more in expenditure each year than the couple without children. A forward-looking family policy must take into account all types of families and also take care of the situation of single residents. Former Minister for Children and Family Laila Davay therefore invited single residents to make representations to the Ministry about their life situation and living conditions. Recordings should provide a basis for assessing the areas in which society should better address the situation of the single population. The Bondevik II government started work with a view to providing a big message about the single residents in the spring of 2006. It is important that the current government follows up this work. Alone residents are the only groups that have had less economic space in recent years. Much of this is due to the large increase in housing prices, which has particularly affected smaller apartments. The share of those who own their own dwelling is also the lowest among the single-dwellers and lone-dwellers. It's almost three times as common for single residents to rent a dwelling as it is for couples. More than every three single tenants living in a dwelling. The Bondevik II government has taken some measures to help solitude into the housing market. In 2002, the boutet poison stack was raised by NOK 5000 in Oslo, Bergen, Stavanger and Trondheim. Per. In the third semester of 2004, 900 more households had received housing support as a result of the blockage in the big cities being lifted. Together with low housing rates, Start-up loans are also a mechanism to facilitate entry into the housing market. The problem for many young borrowers today is that they lack equity. The Start-up Loan Facility provides for co-financing, where the private market provides basic funding and the municipalities top-level funding. Thus, municipalities and the private credit market together will play an active role in enabling more young people to buy owner-occupied dwellings. The municipalities administer the loan scheme. This means that the borrowing system becomes more accurate and flexible in relation to the local challenges on the housing market. A study carried out by ECON for the Husbank shows that the Start loan is an important tool for helping young people and disadvantaged people to get owner-occupied housing. In 2004, about 7 000 people received a start-up loan of nearly DKK 3 billion. It is important that all those in need are offered start-up loans in order to get into the housing market. In addition to problems related to the purchase of dwellings, single residents have to pay for many expenses alone that others can divide into two. This applies to municipal charges such as water, sewerage, renovation and electricity. In addition, there is a regular telephone, insurance and newspaper subscription. The price is the same whether there is one or more in the household. The Christian People's Party wants to review all municipal taxes in order to make them as user-dependent as possible instead of household-dependent. Some municipalities today offer their inhabitants to deliver half of their garbage bags at half price. This should be easy to do across the country and should be extended to other municipal services. I would encourage all municipalities to address this. Both water taxes, sewerage taxes and renovation fees could be made consumption-dependent. Then the fees had reflected the real consumption instead of burdening the single resident for the same consumption as households with many members. An important side-effect of such a system will be an increased focus on resource use and can eventually make us more conscious consumers and provide a positive environmental benefit. It is not just the public offer that is essential for the everyday lives of single residents. For example, a private measure that simplifies life for many lonely people is: Pictorial systems. It is expensive to own a car alone, and many big cities in Norway have car hire schemes that can be used. The Green Everyday website provides a good overview of the scheme. Volunteering centres also offer a wide range of services, including: single-dwelling. In order to improve the situation of single residents, the Christian People's Party wants to look at schemes that better respond to this group's interests. We know that many people are struggling to get into the housing market, and we know that many people are struggling to cope with the fixed costs associated with their home. We also know that the single residents are the only group that has had less economic space in recent years. Therefore, we will encourage municipalities to review their charging systems with a view to making charges more user-dependent. It could also make all citizens more aware of consumers. At the same time, the Christian People's Party wants to assess changes in the tax system. What will the Government do to identify the lonely situation, and what measures does the Council of State think might be appropriate to balance living conditions between those who live alone and those who live together with someone?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e645	I would like to thank the representative Molvær Grimstad for the interpellation. The representative addresses an important topic, which we know affects a lot. This gives me the opportunity to inform about where the work on the lonely situation is. I want to start by saying that the government is concerned about the lonely and will in an appropriate way come back to Stortinget with the follow-up of their living conditions. The organisation of the large community for families with children is and has been important. But at the same time, this has led to our society being built very much on what's happening to the core family, which is not as much the norm on how people live their lives. This poses both government and major challenges in facilitating good responses to the group of single residents in Norway. For example, many single residents have the same financial liabilities as couples but only one income. This can help create a biased distribution of resources between cohabitants and single residents, and it is also part of an important debate on the distribution profile of groups in our society. There is a high number of lonely people in Norway. Loneliness is difficult to place in one group. They are found in all groups, whether we look at age, education, income, gender and different life situations and life stages. We know that being alone and the duration of one's life could vary. That is why it is also important to look at what kind of action we can take – the representatives are flirting, President, but I will go further in my speech – and the organisation of such actions. The lack of — who are the lonely, and the challenges they face — suggests that we need more knowledge before proposing measures. We need to tailor any measures for solitude. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality has launched a wide-ranging investigation conducted by the Statistical Central Bureau on lone persons living alone without children and without a spouse/partner. All information in the investigation will, as far as possible, be provided for both women and men. The single life situation and living conditions will, as far as possible, be compared with other types of households, such as couples with and without children and single-parents. We will also know what progress in living conditions has been over time. The investigation will provide us with knowledge of many aspects of the solitude of life. Firstly, it will provide us with important demographic data, for example: on the number of single residents, whether there has been an increase or decrease in the number of single residents over time, age and gender composition among single residents and how long people have been single. I fully agree with the approach of the representative Molvær Grimstad regarding the profile, among other things. on municipal charges. And it's clear that half a bag of garbage at half a price can be important, but the most important thing when we're talking about having targeted measures for the group of lonely, I'm absolutely convinced that will be having an offensive social housing policy that actually makes it possible to get your own housing and finance it, in the big cities today. Living safely and well is important for most people, and the investigation will provide us with knowledge of the housing situation, for example. whether the dwelling is owned or rented, the size of the dwelling, the standard and several different measures of the costs of living. In addition, there is also an assessment of the gravity of the bout toxins. The investigation will include, inter alia: include the issue of income. You will look at the income composition, for example: the extent to which residents have employee income or entrepreneurial income, whether they receive different types of pensions and different types of social benefits. We will also know to what extent residents have wealth, what kind of wealth they have, how much the total debt is and what the build-up of debt is. In addition, we will receive figures for taxes on income and wealth for municipalities, counties and countries, as well as membership fees for social security and tax deductions. Overview of developments in economic living conditions will answer the following questions: Do most single people work who are of working age? How economically vulnerable are they? Do they have high indebtedness and high indebtedness? Will we know how many single residents have low incomes, and how many have low incomes over a long time? An important aspect that we also want to shed light on is consumption. We will know how much housing expenditure alone has in terms of rent and mortgage, and how much they pay in terms of municipal taxes compared to other types of households. We will get an overview of the costs of electricity, fuel, telephone, TV and newspaper, insurance, household equipment, car costs and travel expenses, to mention some things. A question that will be answered is whether single residents are more than members of multi-person households participating in different social arenas. We can learn about this by looking at the participation in organisations, in politics and culture. An important issue that will also be identified is social contact, i.e. contact with friends and family. It will also be considered whether social contact and mental health are interrelated, and whether there are trends in so-called accumulation, i.e. if there is a lack of contact with both friends and family and, in addition, little connection with professional life. We'll get an overview of time use and different activities on an average day. Work may be the most important factor determining the income of single residents. It is therefore important to examine the scope and type of professional activity and why, where appropriate, professional activity is low. We will get important health information by looking at lifestyles and addictions, for example. of the auxiliary public utility. We will also focus on single-dwelling immigrants. Overall, this broad approach will provide us with a very good knowledge of the single life situation and living conditions in Norway today. It'll be a unique piece of mapping that we haven't documented in such a way before. In my view, a well-updated knowledge base is an important prerequisite for us to be able to assess measures by the Government. The study will allow the identification of groups of lonely people who may have specific problems and needs. According to the plan, the report of the Statistical Central Bureau will be available for the first six months of this year. It is only when I have received the full report that it is proper to assess how we can best strengthen the situation of the individual. I believe that this is quite in line with what the majority of people said in the last period, that we should come back to the proposal on the living conditions of single and single dependants and possible measures for them when we got investigations that gave as much knowledge as possible about the living conditions and living conditions of single people. I look forward to the debate. I know that from all the parties in the hall there is a great commitment to this matter. I want to listen to the input and suggestions for solutions that come out here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e677	I would like to thank the Council of State for the response to the interpellation. I am pleased that the investigation will be followed up in relation to the living conditions of the lonely people and thus strengthen the knowledge base. With regard to the situation of the single residents, I noticed that the Council of State said that it would be appropriate to return to Stortinget. I perceived it a little unclear, but what I then wonder about is whether the government will bring its own big message, as the previous government announced. It would be a good opportunity for the Storting to go through the situations and challenges of the lonely. The only thing in common is that they live alone and have one income. Otherwise they're as different as the rest of the population. So there might be a lot of different things you want to look at here. But we know that every third household consists of one person, so this applies to a lot of people. We also know that status can change over time. Those who live alone may become cohabitants or marry after a period, or there may be a breakup. If you live alone or with others, some people may change over time. But we know that it is a trend that more and more people live alone. I could imagine getting a clear answer to this, precisely because the previous government announced that they would lift this up and present their own big message so that you could discuss it. Does that mean that the government said that it has not taken a decision on whether to send its own big message, or is the government uncertain about how to tackle these challenges in relation to the Storting? It would be nice if the Council of State could answer that question. I hope that you will give your own message about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e690	As I said in my post, it's important for the government that we just get answers to all the challenges we have. The government has per cent Today no decision has been made on what will be the best way to file a case for Stortinget. It's a little bit because I also know that a lot of the answers and solutions are within the area of several departments. But this is going to be more technical than politics. I believe that the important thing is that we have a government that is willing to take action. In that sense, I am very grateful for the impatience. I'll try to do my utmost so that it won't go too many years before we can at least try to give the Storting any answer. But I also do not hide that it is very complicated to have very clear answers in this area, answers that we know with certainty will be targeted, and that will be good actions for the group. That is why I want dialogue in this matter. I want us to have a lot of public debate about what will be the right grip to take on this large group of over 700,000 people. Therefore, I also believe that a public debate related to this will become much stronger now when we start getting statistics and surveys from the Statistical Central Bureau. But when it comes to what form we're going to come back, I have to be honest and say that we haven't made that decision yet. But the important thing is that we have a political will to deliver in this important field that the representative addresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e697	The interpellant addresses a very important theme. Norway in 2006 is characterised by a diverse society in terms of forms of life and family structures. From the time the core family was central, family forms have now expanded. So now we find families with two adults, with my, your and maybe our children. We find lone parents with children. We find gay and lesbian with and without children, and we find single, or lonely. We must have a policy for all these family forms. We're going to be careful to raise our index finger and recommend one kind of life form. I am pleased that the Stortinget has a number of times in recent times focused on those who live alone, and their living conditions, and that the interpellant also continues this debate. In the statistics of the Central Statistical Office, we can read that 740,000 people in Norway today live alone and that they make up 40 pst. by households. In Oslo, those who live alone make up 50 pst. by households. However, singles are not a uniform group for which one action or one instrument may be envisaged. It's all from the young student who's soon on his way into a cohabitation relationship, to the lonely 60-year-old who's lived alone his whole life. The concept of loneliness includes all of those who live only a short period of life alone, to those who live all their lives alone. There are many reasons why people choose to live alone. In fact, the gender equality struggle in recent years has contributed positively to women choosing to live alone because they are no longer economically dependent on men. We have to hold on to that. Lonely is not a uniform group, as I said. But they have one thing in common, and that's that they don't have anyone to share their expenses with. Most people in this group are doing very well, but it's a minority who have it economically difficult. The Workers' Party's position is that the best measures to help this group are to have good general welfare arrangements. Yes, such a general welfare scheme as a good local economy also contributes, because it contributes to a lower level of fees for municipalities, which is of great importance to those who are single. In addition, specific instruments may be necessary. But from the Labour Party we find it difficult to determine this before the investigation by the Statistical Central Bureau has been completed. What we certainly know is that the biggest cost for lonely today is the boute poisons. In the large cities in particular, the entrance ticket to the housing market is so high that it is difficult for this group to get in. Market and housing prices are regulated on the basis that people with a high purchasing power – i.e. two-income households – have to pay. It is commendable that also the Christian People's Party has now become concerned with the situation of the lonely. However, it is not surprising that in the last four years of civil government, the situation of lonely people in the housing market has become considerably more difficult. It is cut off in support of rental housing, and the instruments of social housing policy are weakened. The house bank has been changed from being an instrument for buying housing without being rich, that it is now only the poorest of the poor who get the opportunity through the House Bank. The advantage of sitting in government — as the Christian People's Party has done for seven of the last nine years — is that proposals and actions can then be made. And I'm a little surprised that they didn't take the time to prioritize working for this group when they sailed into government. For the red-green government, it is important to ensure good welfare arrangements that capture everyone, including the lonely. It is important to have a good housing policy and secure people's work and education. But we also need to look at schemes that target the lonely, such as municipal taxes on consumption, the flexibility of the House Bank in housing support schemes and the provision of goods and services by the commercial and service industries at prices that match the consumption and needs of one-person households. I look forward to the report from the SSB that will be presented during the spring. I think it will give us much more knowledge of the living conditions and living conditions of solitude than what we have today, and will make us better able to decide what kind of action we need to take towards that group.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e725	We who have lived significant parts of adult life as single residents know well that it is tough economic. We know that housing costs are heavy. For example, house insurance, which one would like to pay for the house and its residents, will amount to about the same thing as for a family of four. In the case of municipal taxes, one would like to pay the same in the garbage charge as a large family does. In the NRK you pay the same as a large family does. And the same is true of property taxes. Real estate tax has been introduced in more than 50 pst. by Norwegian municipalities, and the SV and Arbeiderpartiet believe that even more municipalities will have this tax. It's a tax that hits blindly, and where you have to pay the same thing according to the size of the house, whether you're one or four. Often, when the bills flow on, they get stressed. Another problem, quite the opposite, which may arise for some of the people who live alone, is solitude. It's by no means everyone living alone, who's plagued by this, but it's a grueling problem in our society that solitude is significant, and that some of the cases that you can get across can limit the psychiatry and maybe be involved and contribute to increased mental problems. I think it is for those who live alone, but who also have children's contributions that are to be paid. It is, of course, a priority to pay children's contributions, but there may be little to other things. And we know that many single residents who pay contributions are struggling with the economy. They have payment problems, and it doesn't get much easier by an overly public collection centre. What will the Progress Party do in concrete terms? The party of progress has been working since the party was created over 30 years ago to ensure that no more is paid in taxes and charges to the public than is necessary. This means that for many years we have worked to ensure that municipal taxes are not limited according to arbitrary rules such as living space, etc. Such charges shall not exceed the actual public cost and shall therefore be calculated after consumption. This is an example of how the Progress Party works for loneliness. The Progress Party has little faith in special schemes for different groups, as they are often expensive to administer. In addition, we often see little real effect of the schemes. The question is, of course, whether we in Norwegian society have the economy for further large subsidy schemes. Of course, you can ask yourself why there is so much focus on family policy and so little on single policy. The answer is that it is natural, and that there is a lot of focus on family policy, which is about children, kindergartens, cash support, etc., because children are so important in our society. But we politicians must manage to have two thoughts in our head at the same time in this area and also focus on those who choose not to have children. From the point of view of the Progress Party, we do not think that we should have a special single policy. We think we should have a general policy that can benefit all groups, and that of course will also benefit those who are single. Of course, we should not cut off the possibility of considering concrete proposals that had to come out of the work that is now being done in the department. But I hope that in that work one also tries to look specifically at the contributors, and that there one tries to get a more reasonable distribution of the burden that exists. I find it touching that the Christian People's Party cares for the singles. It's great with such eagerness as the one behind this interpellation. What you can ask is, is why you haven't done anything in this area when you've actually been in government six out of the last eight years. A big message will map things, yes, but it will not solve the problems, and what this is about here is concrete action, concrete legislative changes and concrete municipal decisions. In conclusion, I think the intention is good, and it should be commended to the representative of Molvær Grimstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e744	Many here have pointed to the position of solitude. I agree with what has been said, and I will not spend time going into it. I think the interpellant described the lonely situation in a very good way. But it's also clear that it's a non-uniform group, and I think the ones we're really talking about here are the ones that belong to the low income groups. So I agree with the representative Gjul that this is also about general welfare policy, it is about finding schemes that make us target those who need it the most. There I would say that the approach of the Bondevik government through its poverty policy was precisely marked by it, with fine arrangements that targeted those who actually needed it all, most of all. Otherwise, there is no doubt that very much of what we are talking about is not really so much about state action and instruments. I think for a lot of lonely people it's the municipal conditions that feel the most on the body. These are property taxes, municipal taxes of so many kinds, and more and more. When the representative Gjul points out that if you have a generally good municipal economy, it is up to you to get lower spending pressure in the municipalities, I think I would remind you that the Workers' Party is also local in all, most of which are just drivers of a high tax level, and not least a high level of property tax. We have a lot of examples of that in these days. When you look at the tax policy you have had over the years in relation to housing – where you used to have the tax on housing, you have the property tax, and you have the municipal property tax, that is to say, a three-piece toilet that goes on housing – yes, that is exactly what this group is doing. In this way, the Workers' Party should look at how the whole party approaches the relationship to owning a dwelling. It really has to be that we have to have a policy that makes it possible for lonely people also to have the prospect of owning the home in which they live. It was quite rightly pointed to the challenge that many female lonely people have faced in the past, and I agree with the one who said that it is a great advance that women too can choose more easily to be lonely. But I would also like to point out that we have a growing group of lonely men with a dependant burden, which is also a quite vulnerable group. I am sure that most of us regularly receive enquiries from both individuals and organisations within the group that describe, I think, quite serious family situations, of course, first and foremost for the one person that it relates to, but I think it is also a side that has quite important social perspectives in relation to the families they relate to – to children, to former spouses. Not least in relation to what this group can offer its children in terms of good association, the living conditions they have are very important to ensure. It's not as easy to exercise a great deal of care if you live on a tight cabin, as it would have been if you actually had some space to have the kids on. On the right, a broad approach will be sought in the way that the Council of State intends to return to the Grand Duchy. We are a little surprised that so far you do not signal a big message. Anyway, it's important to get a good general discussion, because this isn't just about what we're doing in this room, it's also about the discussion that's going to take place in the municipalities and in so many other forums. Then the debate itself, the lighting of the matter itself, is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e759	The interpellant brings forward a policy area that was important for SV in the previous period and is of course equally important for SV in government. An increasing proportion of the population live alone. Especially in the big cities, which some others have been in before, there are many single-person households. In Oslo lives over a quarter of the population alone. In particular, there are many single residents aged 20–29 years and among those aged over 70. What is serious is that young people living alone are overrepresented among the permanently poor. Alone residents have additional expenditure in a number of areas relative to households with two incomes. The State Institute for Consumer Research, SIFO, concluded in 2004 that the extra cost of living alone is over NOK 4000 per month in average expenditure relative to two-person households. In particular, it may be difficult for one-off households to enter the housing market. Some types of taxes that are not paid after actual consumption are also higher than those in two-person households, which have also been discussed by several others. The group of residents is a very heterogeneous group, and a number of conditions other than housing will be crucial for the economic situation of people in this group. However, housing is an important issue in the distribution policy. It is therefore important to gain a better understanding of the impact of policies in different areas on the many people living alone. In particular, housing policies, public welfare facilities, labour market policies, study finance and pension schemes will be important areas. In recent years, no public investigations have focused on the living conditions of single residents. Therefore, during the previous ageing period, the SV promoted a proposal for a comprehensive communication on the living conditions of single residents in which the various policy measures addressed to this group were to be assessed. We also stressed in the proposal that it was natural that such a communication looked into the situation of single caregivers, as these will face many of the same challenges and issues as people living alone. SV's proposal in Document No. 8:88 for 2003-2004 was promoted on 17 June 2004 and read as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to provide a State aid notice on the living conditions of single and single dependants and possible measures to improve them.’ The Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the then seated government opposed this proposal in the previous period. There was a majority to make this message in the last period, but it didn't support the government. It is important to look at what the committee said in the vote when we considered this proposal. It refers to the budgetary position in which a unanimous committee said: ‘The Committee will, however, continue to monitor developments in the living conditions of lone dependants and assess the need for further targeted action.’ And then the committee goes on to say: ‘Lone dwelling is a heterogeneous group. The Committee would point out that many lonely are resource strengths that do not meet specific challenges in everyday life. For such a heterogeneous group, it is natural to put in place a strategy to ensure that the interests of the residents alone are safeguarded in the same way as those of the rest of the population. The Committee is aware of the fact that the Government is working on an investigation into the living conditions of single residents, and considers that the Stortinget is appropriately made aware of the measures that are important in order to influence society’s positions on unanimity and whether concrete requirements should be made for the review of policies in individual areas. The Committee stresses that such a review must emphasise the financial feasibility of living in an income household and calls for the Ministry, inter alia, to: look at conditions such as municipal charges based on consumption, the flexibility of the Husbank in the housing support system and the provision of goods and services by the commercial and service industries at prices consistent with the consumption and needs of one-person households.» If it is desirable to take measures for single residents and single dependants, it must be essential to gain a better understanding of the actual situation. SV and I are pleased that the Government of the political platform from Soria Moria is saying that there is a case of single residents, and that the Council of State is giving the positive signals that she is doing here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e792	There may be reason to remind May Hansen that she herself, in her description of her party's proposal, was based on both the situation of the single-residents and the situation of the single-parents. I think that also explains why we did not vote in favour of that proposal in due course. I don't think it's appropriate to take these two questions into account in the same case. So there might be a reason to go a little bit back in history to see what we're really talking about. When the House Bank was established in 1946, it was to provide reasonable loans to housing applicants. But it was a group that couldn't get that kind of loan, and it was lonely. In Oslo, my own town, it was actually so that the lonely didn't even have the right to look for a place to live at the Oslo Leiegårdskontor. These conditions led to a gradual organisation, and there is reason to mention Alfhild Brevig in this context and also the creation of the United Nations Confederation, which has focused on this group. In Oslo, we now have 266,000 households. Of these, 138 000 are single-dwelling households. So here we see that it's over 50 pst. in this city that now lives alone. The Bondevik government intended to deliver a big message, and we had no intention of going off in October 2005. We were going to complete this – to those representatives who think it's strange that we haven't done anything before. So we wanted to send a message, including the mission to the SSB, which has been pointed at not least by the Council of State. When it is that we are not in government, we intend to follow up the policy here in the Stortinget. I am also pleased that the current government intends to do the same, even if we do not get a clear answer to what form. I would like it to be a big message, because it is a public document in a completely different way from other types of cases that are often presented in this room, for example. as part of a budget. It also gives decision-makers in countries and municipalities and at county level a completely different document to deal with when adopting decisions affecting this group. Thus, my recommendation is at least given to the Government in this way. So the Council of State, if I understood her correctly, said that it was enough to look for more tailor-made arrangements. Then I have a specific question: does this mean that you do not think of a general instrument, such as: a tax deduction would mean, which I think the Council of State was because when she was out with this as the head of the working party women in her time? So a challenge to: will the government think of providing some incentives to those municipalities that, through their level of charges, might think of differentiating one-person households from other households, for example: by providing a grant to set up water meters in the dwellings so that they can be differentiated in this way? I have noticed that both the Workers' Party's speakers and the State Council have pointed to housing policy as one of the most important things, and it is clear that there is considerable expenditure here, not least for those who are going to settle alone. I think it's absolutely right to focus on that. So the Council of State, happy enough, was busy with dialogue, and that's what we have here today. But it is clear that there are many outside this hall who are also concerned about the situation of the single residents. We have an association of interests, and we have other groups out there that certainly have a lot to contribute so that what the government is finally going to bring is going to be as good as possible. So my question is, how will the Council of State involve different environments and organisations that have a lot to contribute, when the Government is going to promote its final proposal or a notification for the Storting, when that time comes?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e813	The inter-pellant is to be commended for addressing an important topic of debate today, namely their very own living conditions. Although they are far from being any kind of a group, which has been pointed out earlier today, some of these groups have major challenges in getting into the housing market, relating to larger or smaller costs they have nothing to share with. As the interpellant and others point out, this is about expenditure related to the dwelling, which is more or less independent of the number of members of the household. Last year's figures show that the single group has a clearly poorer income development than others, and that alone has monthly extra costs on average of nearly 4000 kroner compared to two-income households. In the view of the Centre Party, it is important to better monitor the life situation of those on their own, so that we can ensure effective action for those in this group who have specific challenges. Tax deductions for low-income self-constructors, greater organisation of the support scheme and reduction of costs related to electricity and heating may be measures that are involved after such monitoring has been carried out. Only then will we know which measures will have the best effect. It is important for the Central Party that the Soria Moria Declaration states that the Government should present a case on its living conditions alone. The Council of State has today done some good for the extensive work being done by the Government at this point. She has also underlined the commitment of the government party to secure all-roundings with specific challenges. The Council of State's articles show that the Government focuses more on this matter than the previous government did, and that's important. The centre party has tried several times in the last few years to focus on the unique elements, both through direct proposals in this room and through budgetary work. It is well coverage to say that support from the Christian People's Party for these initiatives has been almost absent. Equally full, it is gratifying that the Christian People's Party is showing commitment now, and it seems to be a sincere commitment. Creating a public charging system that is based more on consumption, as reported by the representative Molvær Grimstad, is an important input. But in such an image we also have to remember that some households can have high consumption without necessarily having very good advice. One nearby example is the families of children. When the representative Olemic Thommess draws into doubt the fact that a better municipal economy is involved and ensures that they alone build their situation around the municipalities, it is in their place to point out that very many municipalities have been forced to increase municipal taxes through taxes because of the tight local economy the government of which Right was part. I have noticed that there has certainly not been any rush of local politicians from the Right Party who have trampled down the doors to tell them that they did not need the extra funds that the municipalities received through the government's budget proposal. From the Center Party's side, we look forward to continuing the work of the independent people's life situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e831	I want to start by thanking the Christian People's Party for raising the issue in the form of an interpellation. This is a room where the concept of «baby families» has been magical, and it's time that we single are also seen as a family type. But it's true, as everyone says, it's a little bit of a homogeneous family type. But numbers, of which we actually have a part, show that we're depending on income trends, that there are fewer and fewer younger singles who own their own home, and that singles are an ever-growing group, sail if it's likely to vary a lot more. The councils managed to bring joy to the hall by pointing out that it varies, and then I can say that I think it might vary a little too little! But we see that about 60 pst. of all women and 70 pst. of all men in Norway have never been married at the age of 40. That doesn't mean that all of them are single, but that means they live in very different relationships with family type. What we've seen lately is that the health development of the single group has been negative, and it's changed to worse over time. A reminder rule before was that single women lived longer than married women, and that single men lived shorter than married men. Often, some concluded that men were dangerous to health. But we now see that there is an ever-lowering level of health quality in the single group. What I am disappointed about – I tried to find another parliamentary expression for it, but I did not find it – is that the single message is now almost canceled. I think it would have been okay if the council had exposed the message, because the government that has just joined has great tolerance for it, but that it is cancelled, I am quite disappointed about it. I think it is absolutely incredible of SV to stand here and point out that they have made proposals for their own single message, which the government parties then did not vote for – it never does any government party, because government parties do not need to adopt in the hall which messages to come, but we said we should make a message – then go into a government that cancels the same message. It is a strange form of parliamentaryism. However, I will try to address this positively and make proposals to the Council of State as to what can be done. Housing has been mentioned by many. It is important for a city like Oslo still not to have a property tax that makes it even more expensive to own its own home, and here it has to be looked at different funding methods, but it also has a lot to do with local regulation policies, how to regulate housing. It's e.g. such that sailing student relationships around the country makes it cheaper to live with couples than it is to live alone. It's our own cohabitation discounts. It is quite clear that what has now happened in Oslo is that you have got up the housing building, and that makes it easier, but then you also have to have funding models that make it possible to get into the housing market at all. For me it was essential that there were small one-room homes, so that I could afford to buy the first one, so that I can now have both my own bedroom and a small guest room. Fixed charges are a very important part of this. It's very good environmental policy, but it's also very good single policy. From what I have heard in the Chamber today, I have great faith that the proposal I have made in the Oslo City Council to have a review of all the Oslo fees must receive massive support from all the parties. This applies to trash, water and electricity – all the fixed charges at the bottom – for all of us who pay much more in fixed charges in electricity than we pay in electricity consumption. Phone is another part. Then it's bad when the public is among the worst, like, for example. The TV licence, which is fundamentally unfair in relation to singles. Consumer policy is important, insurance, travel, food and all this, but finally, I would like to mention that cultural policy is we single very important, because we are important cultural users. A city that Oslo would have been incredibly boring if it had only lived pairs here, for the biggest cultural consumers are they single, and it's largely those who keep living in the streets as well. But when the social network is smaller, it also affects public welfare and how to provide it. The fact that you don't have a spouse who can take care of yourself means that the public often has to go in and take it. This means that the family structure that is now developing will put the welfare state under major challenges. I believe that the Council of State should also take this into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e846	When we discuss part-time work, we often distinguish between voluntary and involuntary part-time. After hearing the debate so far, the temptation is great to launch the idea that, when we are going to discuss measures for those singles, we should also introduce that kind of distinction. In any case, the political vocabulary has become richer. I think of'single policy'. In a debate on transport, that word could have a different meaning. Some would then be able to say that there has been too much single policy – in that area. It took a long time for it to be fixed on the highway network. So over to today's understanding of the word. The Minister for Children and Gender Equality explained the investigation undertaken by the Ministry and that the income situation of the same will be central. That sounds good. It also seems, after listening to the debate here today, as there is a great deal of agreement on that in the Stortinget. It is possible that I now prefer a little bit of wormwood in the beggar, but in one area we actually go in another direction. It's about retirement. Ever since Nygaardsvold's government introduced the first age line in 1936, it has been assumed that two people living together do not have twice the cost of living alone. This principle was passed on in the general age bracket in 1959 and in the population gap in 1967. Two living together have had one and a half basic pensions for all years, while the person living alone has had an entire basic pension, until 1 May 2003. Many large-scale representatives, probably all of them, are familiar with that issue and have received many enquiries about it over the years. For many, it was perceived as very unfair that married and cohabiting persons would receive a lower pension separately when both were retired, in relation to whether they had been lone pensioners. This is what Stortinget wanted to do, and not least the President is well aware of that debate. Instead of 0.75 of the population’s basic amount, G, married and cohabiting pensioners have gradually increased their basic pension from 2003 to 2005. So let's say we're starting with a G, which is probably at approximately. 60,000 kroner, so married and cohabiting pensioners have got about one by one. NOK 6000 more in the pension that has not been paid alone, in addition to the general G-regulation. I don't want any rematch on this matter. I believe that it is absolutely right and fully support the changes the Storting has made, and believe there was also unanimity in the Stortinget when the changes to the People's Security Act were made in this area. But I mention it in today's debate, because it's actually a step away from something that has shaped the debate today, i.e. a distinction in the thinking between expenditure and income for married and cohabiting on the one hand and lonely on the other. Pensionable, this is the right principle. Not only do we change jobs more often than before, we also change partners more often, and we change life situations more often. It is this increase to put in place the details of the future pension system. I'm pretty sure – and I don't think I'm going to reveal any secrets, either with regard to the Government's proposal or what's going to be the Stortinge's decision – that in that system there won't be any mechanisms to calculate pensions depending on marital status. Each has to earn his or her own pension and get it paid regardless of whether he or she is married, divorced, lonely, cohabiting or living in partnership. This should and must be the case in the future pension scheme. Something else would be weird.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e863	There has been an increasing number of lonely or single residents in Norway. The last census of the Statistical Central Bureau shows that 40 pst. of households in this country consists of single residents. In Oslo, and probably in many of the other major cities, the share of one-income households is up to 50 pst. About a quarter of the adult population live alone and share the view that the heaviest and unavoidable costs, such as rent, light, heat, insurance and municipal taxes, must be borne by one income. At the same time, as many people have pointed out today, so the inequalities within the group of single residents are great. It's e.g. differences, both economically and socially, in a single female academic in the 40s and a lonely young man of 27 without permanent work or special education, and we are both well represented in the group living in one-off households. It is therefore important and right to now carry out an investigation to identify on a broad basis the living conditions of the different groups of single residents, and also to provide for policy action based on the knowledge gained here. But we can already say that a weakening of important Community solutions in different areas does not least hit many income households hard. When the previous government cut the daily allowance of the unemployed or introduced a longer retirement period for sick pay under illness, it might be extra heavy for the many who are going to live on one income, to deal with such a situation. Not least when it is cut in support of rental homes and the framework of the House Bank is insufficient, we no longer have the means we need to pursue a social housing policy. I live in Tromsø, which is a pleasant and beautiful city to live in, not least for us who are unique. That's why there's a city where many people want to live, and there's a lot of travels to educate themselves. Not least in the form of a large pressure on the housing market, and therefore a high threshold for entering the same market. If you look at the statistics for Tromsø in 2005, you will see an additional consumption of approx. One and a half million. kr in the case of social service payments in relation to the budget. A major reason for that is that living in Tromsø is very expensive, actually at the capital level. Both buying and renting a dwelling are almost impossible for many, not least for the single residents. When a good as necessary as a place to live is left entirely to the free market, cities like Tromsø have a problem. It is therefore important to have an evaluation of the Husbank’s instruments and of the housing support’s arrangements. In addition to this, I think that it is also wise to apply a psychological perspective in this matter if you are to get a full overview of the situation of the single person. Although the world has undergone dramatic changes in recent years, socially and demographically, there is a lot of rhetoric and sophistication over the waters, a rhetoric that the Christian People's Party in particular has stood for, insisting that the core family is the highest form of life. Then it may not be so strange that schemes, measures and offers, both of a private and public nature, have been set up. In other words, maybe there's a reason why the map fits so badly with the terrain. That is why I am very pleased that the Minister for Gender Equality has been so accomplished in pointing out that this government has as its guide that the framework people choose for their lives should be respected and not ranked. It is the best starting point for taking a holistic approach to facilitate the good life of people, regardless of their marital status and their way of life. Then, once again, it is important to see that everything is connected with everything, and that politics must take into account that people need both something to live off and something to live for. In particular, it is important to look at the economic situation of single residents in the context of social conditions, such as: the organisation of public spaces, with meeting places, leisure and cultural services, may be as important as economic parameters. It is commendable that the representative, Molvær Grimstad, has taken up the situation of single residents in today's interpellation, and I have great faith that this government is able to take the overall grip necessary to improve the situation of lonely people, and especially those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e880	Thank you very much to all those who have taken part in the debate. I think it's been an interesting debate, where one across the board has shown a commitment to the situation of the single residents. I can't help but make a comment to Tove Karoline Knutsen, since she was at the tamp here in that a connecting Christian People's Party with the core family. The Christian People's Party is concerned with family policy and has been clearly and prominent for many years in the fight for young children's parents, in the fight for kindergartens, in the fight for cash support, in the fight for life grants, but the Christian People's Party has also been concerned that we must have a policy for all kinds of groups, that the family is diverse, that people choose to live in different ways, and that the single residents are also an important group in this. That is why, when we have been in government – although it may not have been as visible as other things – we have also been concerned about the situation of the single residents. Some measures were taken, but at the same time we saw that one had to do more for those living alone. One so that it was a growing group. That's why the SSB was given the task of investigating the living conditions of the lonely people, and that's why we started work on a big-time message, which one wanted to present this year. Once I have raised this interpellation so that we could discuss these issues, I am pleased that this is a broad consensus. What surprises me a little – I thought there had been another response from the Council of State – is in relation to this with a big message. The Workers' Party, by Secretary of the Programme Committee Snorre Wikstrøm, sent a letter back for a while to the League of Nations, where they say the following: ‘We also state in the programme that we will investigate the living conditions of single people, and we can clearly answer YES to their specific questions if we support the presentation of a single report in 2006. It also wants the Workers' Party to do so." That's why I really thought that someone had concluded that it would be a big message. I hope that the Government will at least not make a few points in a budget proposal, where it will easily drown in other things. Because with all of these challenges we're talking about, perhaps coordinating some of the fees and information, it's just that it's going to be a very broad case, it could be informative to the municipalities, because some of this is within municipal autonomy, where we can participate and make a part of the premises. That's why I thought the conclusion would be that there was a broad consensus on that today, but I still hope that the Government will focus heavily on this, and then we'll see what the conclusion is from the Christian People's Party. Then we hope that it will be a big message. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e896	I would like to comment on some of the contributions that have been made, and I would like to refer to it both the representative Knudsen of the Progress Party and the representative Knutsen of the Workers' Party, where they pointed out that this is also about quality of life and about social aspects that we have to take into account when discussing these important issues. The representatives Knudsen and Olemic Thommessen were also concerned about the situation of many who have experienced a break in life and the heavy burden it is, especially for many men, when one is going to reestablish himself with a single household. I would like to say that, as the representatives know, we are now carrying out an evaluation of the rules on contributions, and in this respect we will also take into account the aspects we have heard in this debate today. The representative Olemic Thommess was very concerned with the meaning of property tax. Then I can't quite push myself to bring a little kick back to the Bondevik administration. After all, we saw that the Bondevik government cut in cash, they cut in the baby supplement, and they cut in the support of rental homes. These were important measures that could help groups of lonely people to improve their quality of life. I think the time has now come to make a good review of the situation. Then we will also be able to respond to the best measures. Then I would like to say that I do not think there is any reason to criticize neither the SV nor the Central Party in this matter. There are two parties that I think have really stood up for this group for many years, and that's actually the Center Party and SV. I notice that what kind of becomes politics or rhetoric here today is whether we get a message or not. I want to say that the government has now sat in approx. 100 days. Christian People's Party sat in government offices 2 300 days. I have not had the opportunity to make a decision in the college on whether it will be a separate announcement, or whether the Stortinget will be presented with the single policy in another way. But the important thing is that the three parties that are now in charge and power will go through the situation and give the Storting the opportunity to have a proper debate on this important matter. I could have said a lot about Swearer Myrlis's articles, and I could have said a lot more about many others' articles. I just want to say that this shows that there is an incredibly diverse debate, with many different sides, and we're going to have the opportunity to come back to both retirement, Swearer Myrli, and we're going to have the opportunity to discuss more social aspects. And, Trine Skei Grande, there's a lot of things in your post that we could really have a big debate about today, but the time doesn't go on, so we'll end up with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e911	The President understands the urgency of the Council of State, but the speech must continue to be addressed to the President and not to any party colleagues or other colleagues in the Stortinget. Then the interpellant debate is over. The size can then go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e935	In Case No: 2 and 3 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-31.ana.ud423e1024	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
