ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e28	A number of permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the Welfare Permit of the Representative Marianne Marthinsen from 11 October onwards and until further notice from representatives Thomas Breen, Kåre Fostervold, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, Trond Helleland, Saera Khan and Hallgeir H. Langeland on leave from 16 October until 10 November – all to attend the 61st General Assembly of the United Nations, Part Two, in New York On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the leave period: For Busherud County: Beate Heieren HundhammerFor Hedmark County: Tone Merete SønsterudFor Oslo: Karin Yrvin and Khalid MahmoodFor Rogaland County: Gjertrud KjellesvikFor Telemark County: Magnhild HolmbergFor Østfold County: Per Egil Evensen3. Karin Yrvin and Gjertrud Kjellesvik are proposed for the time they meet the representatives Marianne Marthinsen and Hallgeir H. Langeland respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e93	Karin Yrvin is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e116	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e125	The government has focused a lot on the action plan against poverty. Today it is approx. a quarter of a million pensioners living below the poverty line as defined by the OECD. That means they receive less than NOK 113 000 per year, which they will live on. Many of these minimum pensioners have become minimum pensioners because they have been home and raised their own children through a long life. It may not be a valuation that the Workers' Party knows about at home, but it was a value that was very important in the families of the day. Many of these women are being punished for in today's society. When you go through the Government's action plan against poverty, you can't find this group. The minimum pensioners, the country's laborers who have built up the country after the war, are not mentioned in a single word. Looking at the measures highlighted by the Government, there are measures to get into working life, measures for children and young people, measures for criminals, measures for immigrants, and again: the minimum pensioners are not mentioned in a single word. I think it's going to stand in a pretty ghastly light, when the government spends so much time and energy talking about the need to combat poverty, that they don't lift a finger to help many of the elderly in our society who have worn out their lives, and who now through the government budget get a greeting from the government in the form of increased food tax, increased NRK license, increased housing taxes and increased self-esteem – peculiarities that the government itself has announced in the Soria Moria Declaration that they will go through with a view to keeping them at a low level. How does the Prime Minister explain this total lack of commitment to the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e134	The government is doing a lot in this state budget to balance social differences, to give more to those who have little, and to expand welfare schemes that benefit everyone, including, of course, minimum pensioners. We put in place a lot of different measures. In the case of pensioners, we're doing something that also benefits the minimum pensioners. Let me first just stress that of course we believe that taking care of children and caring for family and caring for family members is an important task. It is so important that in our new pension system we will propose an extension of the right to earn pension credits for the care of children and, where appropriate, the elderly. It was a worker party government that introduced that access. Now, a government in which the Workers' Party is involved will propose to extend the right to earn pension funds for those who care for children. What we're doing that's important for minimum pensioners are several things: we remove excesses. We reduced the proportion of self-interest, removed the proportion of physical therapy, which was adopted with the support of the Progress Party in the previous budget, and we have reduced the total part-payment after we took over, both in this year's budget and in next year's budget. Then we also do something else that is important for very many minimum pensioners. Indeed, many pensioners pay taxes on wealth, even if they have low income or minimum pension. We're changing the rule for pensioners' taxes on wealth, so that less people will pay taxes on wealth. There will be lower taxes on wealth for those with low income and some wealth. All of these are measures that help to address the situation of minimum pensioners, who will also gain purchasing power next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e147	That's not right. First, the government increases the self-interest, despite the government having said the opposite. There we see it again: the government says one thing, but it does something else. It's alerting promises to a significant group in our society that are disappointed that the government doesn't see them at all. For very many of the country's minimum pensioners, it helps very little that the government proposes housing support measures, housing schemes, measures to make it easier for criminals after an end of residence. What they need is a hand bill to pay their bills, ready to pay the electricity bill, ready to buy food every month. It's the brutal everyday life that very many of the country's smallest pensioners meet. That means you have to do something about the minimum pension. It has remained silent since 1998, when the Progress Party was able to increase the minimum pension. Then a representative of the bank said it was humiliating that the Stortinget increased the minimum pension.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e152	We're going to make sure that the minimum pensioners get more purchasing power next year, just as we made sure that the minimum pensioners have increased purchasing power this year. We do that by increasing pensions – including minimum pensions – more than the rise in prices. All changes in taxes, including VAT, have been taken into account. So it's wrong when the representative Jensen gives the impression that the purchasing power is going down. It goes up and will also go up next year. In addition, we improve such schemes that are important for many pensioners, including minimum pensioners, for example. the housing aid scheme. We're facilitating the property tax for pensioners more than the Progress Party ever got into the budget comparisons with the Bondevik government. And then we're reducing the excess. We have reduced the self-esteem from NOK 3 500 to NOK 2 500, and we have removed the excess of physiotherapy, which the Progress Party made sure was introduced. Then it's cost adjustment of all rates. It's always been. There have never been self-esteem increases. But even if you don't take that into account, the total costs go down.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e161	There will be follow-up questions – first Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e164	I think it's sad that the Prime Minister is dealing with falsehood. It is not true that the Progress Party has introduced some partiality in physiotherapy. It was the Bondevik government that suggested it. It was the Workers' Party that introduced it, and it is right that the Workers' Party now removes it. I think it is important to clarify that the Progress Party has never introduced any abstinence in physiotherapy. My question concerns what the Workers' Party has promised both in the election campaign and towards the 2007 budget, that the Workers' Party should remove the bias in special deductions for the elderly and the disabled. Nor is it done in the 2007 budget. The Workers' Party was supposed to do this to increase the purchasing power of the elderly. There is therefore also a lack of goods here, and there is no large amount of money there is to talk about either. Can the Prime Minister explain whether it is a breach of promises? Or is it also part of the fact that the Workers' Party continues to ignore the fact that especially minimum pensioners do not have the economy to buy their own medicine or to have hot meals at Christmastime?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e171	That the representative Sandberg uses strong words and words and accuses me of being false, does not do what he says, something more correct – on the contrary. It just shows how desperate the Progress Party is, because they keep making accusations that are wrong, trying to create an image that is wrong. It was the Progress Party that voted in favour of the budget in which a propensity for physiotherapy was introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e179	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e184	It is not useful with body language, shaking and yawning and moaning, because in the Progress Party you always run away from your responsibility. The progress party is a party that never acknowledges the outcome of what you're doing. The Progress Party has provided cutbacks in schemes for those who have at least, as a result of disability, unemployment benefits, and have been responsible for increased self-esteem. The Labour Party and the Government Parties are now clearing up by removing the excesses for which the Advance Party has voted, provided a majority. We increase housing support, reduce the tax on pensioners, increase the purchasing power of pensioners. With our approach, the minimum pensioners will have more purchasing power than with any of the budgets voted for by the Progress Party. That's why the Progress Party should rush down, behave more properly and stop accusing people of cheating when what we say is absolutely right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e189	Sonja Irene Sjøli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e192	Pensioners also rely on professional, good and dignified care for the elderly. In the care message presented by a dancing and merry Prime Minister in Lørenskog on 21 September, the Government claims that the training capacity is sufficient to ensure the recruitment of 10,000 new staff with the necessary professional skills. However, when the State budget was presented on 6 October, it turned out that the Government is cutting in the appropriations for higher education, among others. over 100 million. kr to colleges that train nurses. The government has previously cut appropriations for private colleges that also train nurses. Then my question is: what long-term plan for the education of health professionals does the Government actually have when it cuts in appropriations for higher education?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e199	In the budget, we increase the appropriations for a number of higher education institutions that educate people, among other things. in the field of health care. In the case of part of the higher education institutions that received reductions in the year’s budget, we added to the revised budget for 2006 and now ensure that the money comes into place in terms of annual impact for 2007. Moreover, in recent years, higher education has seen a sharp increase in budgets. We have many different types of education, and we are sure that within the broad frameworks of higher education, it is possible to provide the necessary spaces for the training of health professionals also to care professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e206	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e209	The Christian People's Party is concerned that we should have a decent and good care for the elderly, that we should recruit enough health workers, and that we have a good community economy. We're also concerned about the economy of the individual pensioner. Most people in Norway are doing well, but there are some exceptions. And my question to the Prime Minister is: does the Prime Minister see that there are some groups – not only the minimum pensioners, but they too – for example. Some single pensioners, who come out worse than before, who are not allowed to participate in the increase that most people get in this state budget but who are struggling with higher electricity prices and high housing prices? There could be an increase in food prices, and we know that some of the excesses are increasing. Does the Prime Minister see any pensioners getting a little worse? If so, will he provide any targeted action against this group?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e216	The answer to the question is yes. We see that some groups are struggling, including some retirement groups. That's why we want to improve purchasing power and better living conditions also for many pension groups, especially those with low pensions or minimum pensions. We do different things: First of all, we are correcting some of the misconceptions that were made under previous governments, among other things. the part of physiotherapy. We have reduced a very high market share of NOK 3 500 by NOK 1000 to NOK 2 500. And the fact that we're also changing the step price system for drugs means that we're saving about 50 million. kr for those who are dependent on the type of medicine. So we're doing a good job in terms of proscissions, which in particular benefit pensioners. Secondly, we improve housing support, which is important for many pensioners. Third, we're adding up to increased purchasing power so that the pensioners, including the minimum pensioners, will get more to route next year than they have this year, and even more in relation to what they had under the Bondevik government. The fourth thing we do is to make sure that we get more power to the country, so that we help keep the electricity prices down, which is important for everyone, not least for pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e229	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e232	I wonder if the Government has an A and B team in its social and care policy. If you are close to the big organizations, LO and Bondelag, you get the reward, while many of the laborers can get in a pinch. For example, many people who struggle with muscle and skeletal disorders and with other diseases through rehabilitation. They could have had to get out of work, and they could have gotten better quality of life. With regard to the current budget, we have received a rather strong response from all those involved in rehabilitation – most of them doing ideally – to the fact that these citizens are not being seen. For example, an institution, Valnesfjord, at Fauske in Northern Ireland, has to close for one month, and this is a business where people with great success have been helped back in order to – to stick to the Prime Minister's ideology – work, do their duty and demand their rights. Is it so that the Prime Minister can now guarantee that, independently of the owner, especially when you work non-profit, you are covered by rehabilitation, and that you solve this fist that, in my view and the Left, has been targeted at those who depend on rehabilitation services in this country? This is about social warmth, about those who don't always have the strongest voice.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e237	The government is heavily dependent on rehabilitation. We're actually bigger followers of rehabilitation than the previous government. That is why we ensure that healthcare companies receive significantly more money, can treat more patients and have money for rehabilitation. There is a provision of more than DKK 1 billion to enable health care companies to purchase rehabilitation facilities from private rehabilitation institutions. We believe that rehabilitation is important, we put money into it, and we strengthen the healthcare companies' economy, so that they can also purchase rehabilitation services and ensure that people get rehabilitation. The question of A and B layers: I do not know what the representative means, but we have e.g. provision of pensioners: relief in the taxes on wealth by increasing the deduction from income, and relief for many pensioners who are currently struggling to pay taxes on wealth, even if they have low income. They get less wealth tax than when the Right Party, Left Party and Christian Party put in government, and that's a nice thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e245	Dagfinn Højbråten - till last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e248	I regret to say that the Prime Minister, through his answers, only today in the Question Time, helps to confuse both the Storting and the voters. It is not the case that the self-promotion of physiotherapy was introduced in the previous period with the support of the Progress Party. This was proposed by the Bondevik Government in the 2006 budget. It was also maintained as a proposal by the government of Stoltenberg in the additional budget they submitted to Stortinget, and it was adopted by Stortinget – not with the votes of the Progress Party, but with the votes of the Red-Greens. So the government proposed to remove this excess in the revised, and it got everyone's support. I think that the Prime Minister should regret this, because it is a direct misinformation. And it goes into the sequence of attempts to draw a better social picture of this budget than it actually is. Own percentage has been sessioned. The Prime Minister is talking about another self-interest, which he has lowered, but the high self-interest has increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e255	My point is that it was the Bondevik government that promoted the proposal for a propensity for physiotherapy. We did not manage to remove it in the 2006 budget, but we removed it from the summer 2006 in revised form, and of course we continue that removal in 2007. It is excellent that the parties in the Bondevik government now think it is right that we remove the self-interest, but it is a proposal that came from the Bondevik government. We made sure that very many things were corrected in that draft budget. We didn't get everything, but we got cleaned up from July 1st. The total fractions go down, no matter how you rain. The government's income from equity is lower, because we've reduced the equity more than they've been adjusted on other points. So the excesses in health care go down, and they go down clearly in relation to the Bondevik government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e262	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e265	The Prime Minister should apologize to the Advance Party. He provided a direct error message, that they have voted for it. That he should be man enough to withdraw. I'll bring the Prime Minister on a safer footing by not talking about the budget, but talking about all the other promises that are broken. I'm going to start by quoting what he said to the evening post in an open-minded interview this summer. He spoke of his time as head of opposition and said: ‘Then there was sport in it, because Stortinget was doing it to change the government’s proposal almost for the sport’s sake. The question was not about making proposals better or worse, but about making the most of them.’ Is that why the Government has now turned its back on a number of concrete issues? During the previous period, it was proposed to limit dividends in state companies to 50 p.m., but now to 98 p.m. A national standard for medical care in hospitals was proposed in the previous period, but it is now proposed that the need for medical care should be assessed and determined in a concrete way in each municipality, i.e. not nationally. The third example is that they argued strongly in front of the elections last year, and after the elections for that matter, for what is called project financing of roads. It was to be understood that something was to be detached from the budgeting system, as argued by a number of representatives here in the Chamber. The budget paper now says that no debt financing scheme is established, but that the current budgetary principles apply – that is to say, the opposite. My question is – and then I ask the Prime Minister to put away the answer to the first year's non-budgetary expenditure, from which one can argue: Why do you do a complete turnaround in such specific matters that I have given examples of? Is it because there's still sports in it?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e283	First of all, what the Progress Party has voted in favour of and what they have voted against. My point is that the Progress Party has voted in favour of many unsocial cuts in Norwegian welfare schemes, such as. lower disability benefits, at lower rates in temporary unpaid pay, such as: cut the unemployment rate of those who have the least and cut off other important social schemes. It is true that they did not vote for the introduction of a propensity for physiotherapy. The point was that it was a proposal from the Bondevik government. To the extent that it has arisen unclear, of course I am sorry for that. The point is that there is a long list of unsocial cuts that have also hit pensioners, for whom the Progress Party has voted, among others. increased abstinences in the health care system. The proposal for 50 kroner of propensity for physiotherapy was promoted by the Bondevik government, but the Progress Party did not then have the opportunity to enter into any budgetary settlement, because it became a government change. That is why there was no budgetary agreement between the Progress Party and the Bondevik Government, but there is a long list of other issues in which they have voted for unsocial cuts in social security schemes. Then to the list: when e.g. As far as project funding is concerned, we are now financing projects in Vegvesen. We do that through budgetary appropriations. The best way to provide project funding is to make sure that we get enough money to finance and implement projects in a sensible way. The argument for project financing was that we did not have enough money to implement road projects. That is what we are doing in our budget. It's true that the yield from Statkraft is very high. One of the goals of the Soria Moria statement we haven't managed to achieve yet is to contribute to a lower yield than what we have now calculated. It was necessary to finance other objectives in the Soria Moria Declaration, but our objectives are still in place. We have fulfilled many of them, and then some remain, among other things. the objective of a more predictable and equitable dividend policy in Statkraft.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e292	It was not a predictable dividend policy proposed by the Workers' Party. It was proposed to put a roof and give the board a veto right in relation to the dividends. My question is then quite concrete: Has the government in Statkraft agreed to the dividend percentage of 98 pst. proposed in line with, inter alia: Dokument No. of the Party of Workers Eight motions for resolutions - Nos. 8:25 – from 2004-2005? It's a concrete question, which requires a concrete answer. The second specific question is: does the Prime Minister agree that the dividend should be used as a penalty against State power if they do not follow up political signals, as the parliamentary leader of one of the government parties has addressed in today's newspapers? Two specific questions, sir. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e301	The answer to the first question is no. The Government of Statkraft has not approved the dividend as we have proposed. It's the state at the General Assembly that decides. It is also quite clear that document No. The 8th proposal, which the Workers' Party was involved in and promoted in the opposition in the previous period, has not been implemented. The reason for this is, among other things, that this is not stated in the Soria Moria Declaration. That's not all that the Workers' Party proposed before the elections, for which we got a pass in the Soria Moria Declaration. Such a strict regulation of the dividend in Statkraft has therefore not been followed up in the Soria Moria statement. Therefore, it is not obvious that the Government will at a later stage implement what the Workers' Party thought, but on which there is no full agreement among the government parties. On the other hand, our aim is to have a more predictable dividend policy in Statkraft. We're still at it, and we're still going to work for it. With regard to the dividend policy in Statkraft, I believe that State power should of course follow the guidelines laid down by the Storting and the Government. It's an obvious thing, which I also assume that State Power does.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e308	There will be follow-up questions – first Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e311	I think that the Prime Minister would make life much easier for himself if he had admitted that the red-green parties bought themselves a election victory by being too light with too many promises. I record that the Prime Minister does not answer the concrete questions he is asked by Per-Christian Foss about clear promises in relation to the Soria Moria statement. That doesn't mean that there are promises that you don't fulfill now, but that you go in the opposite direction. My question to the Prime Minister is about an online meeting with the Evening Post, where he was asked by a government employee who earned NOK 430,000. This state employee asked the Prime Minister if he, with a income of NOK 430,000, would get tax incentives from a red-green government. The Prime Minister replied no, and a government employee with NOK 430,000 in income would not receive tax incentives. Now we know the answer. Jens Stoltenberg has broken the promise to this state worker. It doesn't matter whether there's big tax incentives or small tax incentives. On direct questions from a state employee, the then opposition leader replied that there would be no tax austerity. Now we know that he is being subjected to petty tax cuts by the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e318	This is not a breach of promises, nor is it the other issues. Project funding, as the previous representative asked for, we have implemented, by financing projects in the road sector. Predictable dividend policy in Statkraft should be put in place. In the case of taxes, first of all, what I said to the Evening Item earlier this year was that lower or middle incomes should have unchanged or lower taxes. We've done that. Lower and medium incomes have remained unchanged or lower taxes through the tax regime for which we have provided both this year and next year. The second is that one who makes NOK 430,000, which is slightly above average income, has been relieved this year, but gets a few hundred patches of sharpening next year. The sum is unchanged tax, as we promised for this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e326	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e329	I must say that I think it is a little sad that the Prime Minister appears as desperate and pitiful as he now does in this questioning. But it is now a fact that it is easier for the Prime Minister to attack the opposition than to talk about his own policy. I get that, because of course it's awfully unpleasant to see the difference between what you've said you're going to do, and what you end up doing. It's a fact that this government has turned around in a number of political issues. Kindergarten prices would go down, but now they're going up. Higher education should be given more money. The budget has itself been characterised by the Prime Minister as a break. Sick pay was not to be changed. Throughout the election campaign, the Prime Minister went around and accused the Advance Party of being the ones who were going to do something about the sick pay scheme if we got influence. So it was the Prime Minister himself who put forward proposals for an increase in the sickness pay scheme. This is a breach of promises, and I think the Prime Minister will be a man enough to admit it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e338	This government implements the election promises at a very high pace, on a large scale and in all the important areas. For example, in the case of kindergartens, we add up to full kindergarten coverage. It has never been added and built as many kindergartens as we now build. The second thing we do is we make sure that we meet exactly what we said when it was building roads and railways. We're meeting the road map, as opposed to the previous government. We have provided lower kindergarten prices. It was set at 500 kroner, and then there is a cost adjustment now – as we always have at that type of rate – of 80 kroner. If you take $500 minus and you add $80, there's still a lot less babysitting. With regard to the sick pay scheme, the situation is that we said in the Soria Moria statement – and we said it in our party programme – that workers' rights should be guaranteed. Employees' rights are guaranteed. There has been no talk of touching the right to full pay under sickness, 100 pst. wages and salaries under sickness. On the other hand, the Progress Party has in its programme that there is a need to open up workers' rights to be reduced. So we carry out our election vows. We stand by what we said about the health pay system, and we build more kindergartens and reduce the price.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e347	President – to a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e352	No, the president can't open up that kind of thing in the Question Time. In that case, it must be followed up on main questions or on follow-up questions. Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e357	The government promised one thing, while they're doing something completely different. I want to use a concrete example of that, and it's for the public eyeballs. The public spheres, which account for one of the best of youth work, are contributing to conveying a value to young people today, and there is hardly anyone who has a negative word to say about the public spheres, except for Øystein Djupedal, who suggests a full-year shot of 50 million. kr to the public eyeballs next year. We have both liberal public hooligans, and we have Christian public hooligans. An example from my municipality of origin is the Olavskulen, which Christian Workers' Association operates, and which does a wonderful job. I believed that the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party were united on the public spheres. My question to the Prime Minister is: what has been the wrong thing done by the public spheres since they experience such a fury in the 2007 draft budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e366	First of all, it's not right, even though several opposition representatives repeat it, that this government says one thing and does something else. This government implements what we said before the elections, and we implement what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration. The budget that was now presented is a new important step in that direction, by doing a lot with regard to kindergartens, roads, railways, poverty, health, assistance and many other areas. We're not in all areas, but it's because we've gone to elections on a four-year programme. However, we are doing very well exactly what we said in the campaign, whether we are talking about kindergartens, roads, railways or upgrading schools and care for the elderly. When it comes to higher education, it's true that we're going to continue a cut there that came this year. It has an annual impact. We believe that the National Colleges can carry it. If it is possible to find other solutions within the framework we have set up within this budget, we would like to discuss it with the Christian People's Party. The crucial thing for us is that we have the framework in place that will give us a responsible budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e375	Lars Sponheim – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e378	The main questioner referred in his main question that opposition leader Stoltenberg would change the government’s proposal almost for the sake of sport. So it's a sport that you could call fun. It puts in a different light the well-known record from the then opposition leader Stoltenberg in the campaign last year, where he said: Vote on one of the red parties, then you let go of games and specks, fights and all that hesitated there. I almost have to apologize, because I thought it was to set aside the previous government that was the whole point, but it was to set aside opposition leader Stoltenberg who would end the game and the debate. The amazing thing is that this still has. Neither has the Prime Minister. Most people in this country, in increasing numbers, believe that we have never had more games and spectacles and rematches. There are so many that it's almost hard to ram them up in a short spontaneous hour. The last one we saw yesterday, where the government's announced balancing of diesel taxes was to meet with the struggle of its own government member. The Prime Minister asked the opposition instead to rush down and behave more properly. Isn't it better for the Prime Minister to tell his own government?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e389	The main objective of a government doing what it is to do is whether it implements its programme. And this government is implementing its program. This government is changing reality. This government is making sure that we get more money for school and care for the elderly in the municipalities, after many years when there was little money for school and care for the elderly in the municipalities. This government is making sure that we build more kindergartens, and it has reduced the nursery price. This government, unlike the previous government, which promised billions to roads and railways, but which did not follow its own promises when it comes to road and rail, ensures that, firstly, we have increased the numbers of plans and targets and, secondly, we have achieved increased levels and targets. So in the long run, it's crucial for a government and it's crucial for the voters who voted for us, that we do what we said in the election campaign. This government does that, whether we're talking about health, kindergartens, schools, roads, railways, assistance or many other things. That is the political, factual content of this government. The representative Sponheim can try to construct as many other problems as he wants, but the reality is that we're doing what we promised.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e396	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e400	I will give the Prime Minister the opportunity to make his first confession in this spontaneous question. Norway has over 4 million inhabitants. We have over 11 million members in teams, associations and organisations. We are a people who are committed and who spend a lot of effort and resources in the voluntary sector. Unfortunately, it doesn't seem like the government particularly appreciates it and shares the exposure. The government budget, which was presented last Friday, is permeated by a negative attitude towards non-governmental organisations, a systematic down-priority and a clockwise belief in public solutions. The bet on a community life course is great. But why is it just supposed to be municipal? Why should support be stopped for all the non-governmental organisations operating prevention family protection in the form of life courses, thus helping many families in crisis? What's wrong with the National Association and Modum Bad? The increase in aid is great and fully in line with the demands of the Christian People's Party. But why is aid directed by non-governmental organisations so little of the growth? What's wrong with the Power Foundation and the Church's Emergency Aid? The increase in the trade-union deduction represents a significant handshake. But why does the Government not increase the tax deduction for non-governmental organisations at the same time? Why does the Government deprioritise the huge amount of work done in private and non-profit drug treatment institutions? Today, there are long queues for public drug treatment, while there are vacant positions in the institutions owned by the Gospel Centre, the Kraft Institutes and other non-governmental organisations? It's a bit cynical that it's okay to queue only there's a public queue, when there's at the same time vacancies in volunteer organizations' offerings. Why does this happen? The list could be done much longer. The Soria Moria Declaration highlights volunteering almost 40 times. The budget downside shows that the government says one thing here and does something else. I think the Prime Minister could admit it. My question is, is it such that volunteering has to expect such a down-priority from this government, or is it set to adjust the rate?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e417	I think it is very good that the representative Højbräten and the Christian People's Party are engaged in volunteering and non-governmental organisations. The government is also committed to supporting volunteering and non-governmental organisations, and that is why we are doing so in the budget. For example, support for local child and youth action through Freefonds is increasing by a total of 15.6 million. kr. There are many important small and large local children’s and young people’s interventions. We're increasing support for the volunteer centres by 7.5 million. kr. We are increasing support for non-governmental organisations, and we are increasing support for what is called the grant of Freedom Norway, which is the cross-political interest of non-governmental organisations, networking and exchange of experience. So we're increasing the subsidy to many non-governmental organisations in Norway. In addition, increased deductions from the union quota for all employee organisations are a contribution to volunteering and better organised working life. Perhaps the biggest single item is that we are increasing the grants for adult education, which have been cut in the last budgets. Now it gets an increase, which is important. Adult training is a very important part of the work of voluntary organisations. This government is for non-governmental organisations, it increases subsidies in many areas and would like to have dialogue with the Christian People's Party on how we can develop Freedom Norway even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e426	I thank you for the invitation to dialogue, and I see it there that the down-priority of volunteering that I talked about is the Prime Minister's intention to do something about, including during the budgetary procedure in Stortinget. That's absolutely right, and there's reason to pay tribute to increasing support for the volunteer centres. It's a very good move. Increasing the support for Freefonds, the voluntary organisations, in this context, is very good. But it is totally incomprehensible that after Modum Bad and the National Association have been pioneers in investing in a life course, you must suddenly cut off all support, and everything must go through the public! That's not how municipal offices always know best. Sometimes, but it's this commitment to the volunteer organizations that really need a handshake. All right, let's go, let's go, I got a phone call from a desperate sister in Rogaland, who says it's 25 weeks waiting for a motivated drug addict to get into an outpatient treatment. In 25 weeks, this motivation may not be there. And then there are empty spaces at the Gospel Center, but there the municipality will not follow up with resources! Would the Prime Minister like to change the type of system error?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e433	We like to discuss system errors and things that don't work. At the same time, I am absolutely sure that whether we are talking about the access of municipalities and the possibility to buy treatment facilities from non-governmental organisations for drug abuse or about the possibility for health companies, for example. purchasing rehabilitation services from non-governmental organisations, or whatever it may be, is much about the financial framework. Therefore, the Government is committed to strengthening the economic framework of the municipalities. We will also strengthen their ability to buy treatment for drug users, and we will therefore also help to strengthen Freedom Norway. Once we've chosen to spend billions more on Municipality-Norway, it's primarily to strengthen municipal welfare. But we also know that it helps to strengthen the funding of what many non-governmental organisations do – in cooperation with municipalities – in welfare, and thus also strengthen Freedom Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e440	There will be follow-up questions – May-Helen Molvær Grimstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e443	These were the life courses that the Government proposes to remove support for the whole, the local life courses in the direction of voluntary organisations, and development work. I see that the life course has actually become very popular. Many companies have expanded their life courses because they see that when they add it to the home front, they are doing well at work. Studies show that there is a link between lifewreck and sick absence. Society can be demanding. That's why the Christian People's Party is busy having a low-threshold offer, as these offers are. The reactions have become many based on what the Government has come with when it comes to cutting the voluntary work associated with a course of life. I know that people can get help at an early stage and prevent it as a service at the joint [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e452	There are certainly many reasons for sick leave, and good association contributes well to lower sick leave. This government is for good living! We also believe that this is how the authorities have a limited responsibility for it. It's the only person who has to do the most to have a good life with his partner, but to the extent that the authorities can organize and contribute, we'd like to do it. This is why the authorities have a policy to strengthen their community. We also have a very strong conviction that if we have good kindergartens, if we have good parental leave, if we have school leisure arrangements and many voluntary organisations — that is why we are strengthening, among other things. volunteer centres and Freefonds – this will contribute to a safer and more harmonious life for all, and thus also to better living together.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e460	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e463	If the Prime Minister in quiet moments would come to think back on this questioning with no special enthusiasm, I would remind him that the next time he meets the Storting in oral Question Time, he has a significant potential for improvement in terms of precision. That must be encouraging. What the Prime Minister ignores in his answers in this round is that the Soria Moria Declaration has set a general objective of stepping down the use of private providers in the health sector and in the area of rehabilitation. It is a principle, ideologically conditional position. Now private hospitals in this country report that more and more people pay the necessary health care themselves, and that there has been a dramatic increase in the sale of private health insurance. We are, as a result of this, on the way to a classed health care system. In terms of rehabilitation, one of the largest and heaviest patient organisations, the National Association for Heart and Pulmonary Disease, has said that this budget is a dramatic cold shower for all those who had hoped for a truly stronger commitment to rehabilitation. How does the Prime Minister explain this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e472	I saw what part of those who are concerned about the economy of the rehabilitation institutions said. They were worried because over several years they had had a bad economy, and they were sorry that it wasn't corrected enough in this budget. Well, I'll record that. We're on, we're on, we're on, we're on, we're on, we're on, we're on, we're on, we're on, we're on, we're on, we're on, we're on, we're on, we're on, we're on, we're on, we're on, we're on, we're on, we're on, we're on, The funny thing is to hear that a representative from the Right, who has been co-responsible for having had too little in this area over several years, is now blaming us when we have not managed to correct the deficiencies in this area during our first budget, for which we are solely responsible. The second is that we are increasing the treatment of patients with 35,000 more treated patients compared to what was proposed by the Bondevik government in 2006. There has been an increase in the year’s budget, and there has been an increase in comparison with the 2006 Decision for 2007. So to the extent that the Right is concerned that it is being treated for a few patients, and that the health services are too poor, it is significantly better now than when the Right was in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e481	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e485	Gro Harlem Brundtland in his time said that the voluntary sector had to be regarded as the third sector — so important it was — in order to complement public services. The Soria Moria Declaration mentions volunteering almost 40 times with a positive sign. It is strange then that the Minister for Gender Equality, Karita Bekkemelm, says that it is important that these services are provided through public budgets rather than through the voluntary actors. In addition, when we know that the voluntary sector is at great risk of losing much of its income, a loss that the government will also impose on them, it is a little strange that voluntary activity is also down-prioritised in the 2007 budget. I hear what the Prime Minister is saying now, and then it may seem as if the Government is promising – now again – to come back, perhaps in the revised budget, by strengthening the budgets and appropriations of the voluntary organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e494	We obviously have two very different perceptions of reality. I referred to a wide range of points where the Government strengthens the volunteering, among other things. strengthening adult education, which is an important part of the work of many non-governmental organisations. We strengthen local child and youth action through Freefonds. We're strengthening the volunteers. We strengthen non-governmental organisations. It is also the case that a not insignificant part of the aid will go through non-governmental organisations. So in a wide range of areas, this budget goes up to strengthen the voluntary organisations financially. In addition, the strengthening of the local economy also facilitates the contribution of municipalities to sport and to other voluntary work, although there are no earmarked funds for non-governmental organisations. We are in favour of volunteering in this government. We follow it up with budget lines in the budget, and we would like to discuss with the whole opposition how we can develop voluntary policy even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e504	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e507	I think we just have to take note that the sitting government looks at volunteering as a supplement. It has been said in the past that Prime Minister Harlem Brundtland in his time viewed this part of society as the third sector. It was something powerful in itself. The Prime Minister is concerned not to be hit blindly. He has said in the past that he should make an effort, so that not only the volunteering supported by volunteer centres and the Free Fund, which he mentions – that is positive – should be followed up, but that everything should actually be followed up. Then the Prime Minister has a fair chance. Our entire high school movement is based on what we call countercultures, on thinking exactly in the spirit of the third sector. It is hardly, at least in this area, any individual sector that has been taken so hard in the budget. You have to follow Schjøtt-Pedersen's game rule no. 1, this shall be covered within the Kuf-frame, as it is called. Then there will be a rough discovery: then there will be no detection! If the Prime Minister wants to do something about this, he has the chance now to say that the national colleges will come out of the budgetary procedure harmlessly. It is a change of scenery, but it will be a powerful handshake for the cultures, for those who build on the ideal, and as the Prime Minister said earlier here, he will defend.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e516	Firstly, on many points in this budget, we are strengthening Freedom Norway. We're for Freedom Norway. Then it is right – and I have confirmed that in the past – that there is a reduction in cap. 253 20 million public schools. kr in 2007. It's opposited some other numbers. That's 20 million. kr in 2007, and a slightly higher annual impact in 2008. That's right. What I'm saying about it, is that there's a reduction that we've achieved in order to find space for other important things in our budget, such as. The knowledge promise, with SEK 1.4 billion to renovate primary school and build more kindergartens. If within the framework proposed by the Government and laid down here in the Stortinget, it is possible to find something that can make this kind of cut right, we are open to dialogue with the Stortinget about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e525	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e528	My main question is based on the wise words of the Grand President to all of us during the centenary ceremony, where he stressed the role of the Greatness in the process of democracy, the relationship between the Greatness and the Government, and the importance of having real debates in public space when the Greatness gets things to deal with, the need for the access of different groups to express their views and have a real influence. The Prime Minister also had some of the same wise approach in his government statement a year ago. If I may quote a few sentences, the Government said in its Declaration of Accession: ‘We want to change the content of the policy’ – it is now – ‘and will change the form of the policy’. The Prime Minister also said: ‘We invite a great deal of cooperation to improve Norway’.The government has a majority in the UK behind it. It does not mean that it should do as it pleases.’ In the follow-up debate later, the Prime Minister said: «In the government statement yesterday, I invited Stortinget to cooperate. It's serious. We are committed to ensuring cooperation and close contact with the big groups of the government parties, but as a government we are also concerned to cooperate with the opposition." I'm not going to say that the government said one thing and did something else in this case, but I think it's a basis to say that there's enough general opinion – of course in the opposition, but I think that there's not so few within his own parliamentary basis here in the house, and definitely among those who are involved in Norwegian politics, who believe that the Government and the Stortinget – let me say so – have an improvement potential in getting this cooperation to become better and more important than what has been accomplished so far. The Prime Minister didn't say anything in his speech in the throne debate about this, but I want to give him an opportunity now to tell him about how he thinks this is an area that could get better in the next three years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e554	I think the key to that is to talk more together. I believe that the key to getting closer dialogue between the Government, the government parties and the opposition on the Stortinget is to have a closer dialogue before the cases are presented. We are pleased that we have good dialogue with regard to pensions, which is a major and important reform – probably the biggest issue The Biggest will be dealt with in this period, where there will be many rounds and many documents that the Government will present to the Biggest, both messages and propositions. We invite to dialogue about the Church of State, which is another big thing that we will deal with in this period. In addition, I think both the opposition and the government can develop contacts, develop forms of cooperation, which means that we have more dialogue about what many call less matters and current issues, preferably before they are presented. We've tried it when, for example. the discussion of a new law on private schools. We wanted dialogue in this area. We think many things are worth it that there's a broader majority behind them. We want to sit down and discuss more things. We think it's easier in confidentiality than through the media, but the opposition and the government should talk both through the media and more in confidentiality, as we do, among other things. has done so in the case of the pension case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e563	I thank you for your answer. I think this is a good sign, and there are also many witnesses who can confirm that the Prime Minister once again expresses a real willingness to improve the relationship between government and enlargement, including the opposition, because he actually said in the accession debate that ‘that in this room’ — it was voiced — ‘are persons with a lot of competence and knowledge from which the Government will benefit’. I hope he will draw the bills. Then there is no reason to ask someone in the opposition to ‘check down’ and behave properly when performing their opposition duties, as we have heard in this spontaneous question hour. I still want to remind you that until recently the government has not improved much. Minister of Labour and Inclusion Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said categorically at the beginning of September about the sick pay proposal: we have a majority in Stortinget for the proposal! Then a few days went by, and then it turned out that the majority wasn't there. He then stated that it was not his job to communicate with the big groups. The decision was taken with the anchoring of the government apparatus and the government parties. The government had made a proposal, and he was sure that it would be adopted. None of us are sure of it today. There is only evidence that we are struggling with a lack of cooperation between government and grossing up far into the budgetary procedure beyond this autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e577	I believe that the budget is an example of a case where the government has worked a lot with the government party big groups. This is why the budget proposal is also well received in kindergartens, municipal economy, health, roads, railways and many other areas. I am quite sure that all those matters and all those frameworks are going to be adopted, because there has also been much discussion about what is the overall budget framework. At the same time, within these frameworks, which are, of course, strict, it will be possible to make some adjustments if you find a discovery for an addition. There will certainly be wishes at the government parties and certainly wishes at the opposition parties. How far you manage to get depends on how much will and ability you have to find real containment. If you have the will and the ability to find it, it will also be possible to make adjustments during the examination of the budget. Now I think, however, that the most important dialogue is before matters are brought forward, because it's in the nature of the matter that when there's a majority government, there's less room to change things afterwards than it was with a minority government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e584	There will be follow-up questions – first Gunnar Kvassheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e588	Lars Sponheim quoted from previous statements by the Government that there was a lot of knowledge in this assembly that one could use well. It reminds me of Bent Røiseland's words that the Left is not a party, but a collection of the best people we have here in the country. If it's not a current quote from this period, it's an illustration that there might be competence in this house that's worth making use of. The government promised greater predictability, and at one point held it. So far, a neglected group of parties, the opposition and all the organizations involved in the Storting believe that their arguments may have an impact on the final result. My question is specifically linked to the forthcoming budgetary procedure. Is it possible for all the groupings and organisations that come to the Biggest that, when they point to unwarranted proposals, falsely justified proposals, there will be room for action in the Biggest to make improvements in order to make the budget more consistent with the priorities that these actors want?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e597	It's great to hear that the Left has a strong and beautiful self-esteem, and that the Left still believes that it's made up of the best people we have here in the country. Too bad for the Left that there are no more who meet the requirement to be the best. So I would like to say that it is clear that the discussion we are going to have in Stortinget is going to be real – in the sense that we are going to have hearings, we are going to listen, and I expect the big groups to want to make the changes they think are necessary. But what I tried to convey in the previous answer is that it is important that there is more dialogue before cases are presented, because then the space for action is larger. The second is that the changes to be made shall take place within the framework adopted. Then we know from experience that the room for change is limited, because one can easily agree on an addition, but it is significantly more difficult to agree on the necessary containment. That is why I – and the government parties – am open to dialogue, but we know that it is demanding when the frameworks are laid. That's why I think the challenge is to engage in dialogue after matters have been presented, but not least before matters are presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e604	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e607	I think I should remind the Prime Minister that it is the Stortinget that has been elected by the people, not the Government. That's why it's very unfortunate when the Prime Minister stands on this pulpit and appeals to a magnificent in the way he has done today, asking him both to come down and behave properly. It doesn't suit a prime minister, and I think the prime minister should take over. It is worrying when the Prime Minister now calls for many of the formal political processes to be moved out of this room and into enclosed spaces. So that means that the Prime Minister prefers to have dialogue with the opposition in confidentiality, as he himself called it, rather than in full transparency in the Storting. It's suspicious of our entire management system. So it's like a government has to take a stand on the issues, present them to the Biggest, and then it's up to the Biggest to take a stand if they want to support them or change them. I think the Prime Minister must take that seriously, and dry to engage in dialogue in transparency and in the formal bodies that, after all, apply to our management system.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e614	First of all, I would like to say that when there are strong accusations, I think it is right that you also answer them. My point is that the government first does what it has said it should do, and when representatives repeatedly say that we do not, I think it is right that the government answers, and that I say what I think about it. My second point was that the Progress Party has voted in favour of a wide range of measures that make it possible, for example. pensioners are getting the tighter economics. They have previously voted in favour of increased excesses and cut in e.g. unemployment benefits and cuts in disability benefits by applying lower rates for what they called temporary disability and some other social cuts. That was my point. So I'm sorry if I said that the Progress Party had voted for 50 kroner in favor of physiotherapy, because they haven't, but they have voted for many other nonsocial cuts. This government removed the excess after six months. When it comes to the relation to the Biggest, it's absolutely right that the Biggest is chosen by the people, and it's the Biggest that adopts the budgets. At the same time, however, we have parliamentaryism. That means that the government starts from a majority of the Biggest, and that's what we're doing now. That is why, of course, it is important for the Government to anchor, clarify the budget framework before it is presented, and that is what we have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e625	President! Once again another obvious misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e630	This has come up twice here now, and once not directly from the pulpit. As regards the possibility of resolving so-called obvious misunderstandings, the President will refer to Rule 37 of the Rules of Procedure, which relates to the debates. It says that if the president thinks it might be of importance for the further exchange of words, he may be able to clarify a manifest misunderstanding. This concerns the debates, but we cannot open this up with regard to the spontaneous questioning. It's not going to happen that way. Such questions as Siv Jensen now obviously wants to address have to be addressed in relation to questions and follow-up questions, otherwise this will slip out completely. Then we won't be able to do the spontaneous question time as it was supposed to. So the possibility mentioned in Section 37 concerns the debates and not the spontaneous questioning.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e633	And the Prime Minister can continue to misinform the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e638	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e641	It must be allowed to point out that the need for these rounds of clarification is precisely the understanding of the division of roles between Parliament and the government. It is Parliament's job to hold the government accountable, and it is the government's responsibility to be accountable to Parliament – not the other way around. That's why I might suggest a little advice to the Prime Minister, that the saying that attack is the best form of defense, does not relate to the interaction between government and greatness. But for the formal rules of the game. Informal contact is good, but only if the formal rules are respected. In the debate on the throne, there was an overall opposition who, towards the end of the debate, lamented that the whole debate of the throne was conducted on a very incomplete basis of information because one part of the Storting knew about much of the budget in advance, the other only knew what had been systematically leaked through the press. Then the Prime Minister answered in a way that made it close to interpreting him so that he believes that these leaks were perfectly OK, and that it is quite fine that the Government provides massive information about the budget before the Storting has become aware of it. It's in case of a dramatic breach of the constitutional rules. Is that correctly understood, or will the Prime Minister correct that view?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e650	First of all, the relationship between big business and government. There is, of course, the fact that Parliament usually does not have the same opinion on a question. For example, with regard to the budget, the clear impression is that a majority in the Grand Duchy feels that the budget is very good, while a minority, the opposition, think that the budget is very poor. The Government must then rely on the majority of the Grand Duchy to consider this to be a good budget and to vote in favour of the frameworks and main facilities, while being open to make — if possible — adjustments within those frameworks. Of course, the formal rules should be followed, but I think it is an advantage that formal contacts should be complemented by more informal contacts. It's been common whether we've had majority or minority governments, and I'm inviting more of that, because I think that's good. As regards the presentation of the budget before it is presented, my point in the debate was that the previous government had a very long list where they presented tax arrangements, where they presented road actions and many other bets before the budget was presented. So I thought it was a little strange to hear a very fundamental argument against leakages – when the previous government had it on a large scale.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e658	Hans Olav Syversen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e661	I also noticed that the Prime Minister asked some big business representatives to come down and behave properly. Then it might be tempting to ask if the Prime Minister has given the same exhortation to some of his government members recently, for example. The Minister of Culture – but I won't. I am concerned with what the Prime Minister was about the interaction of large-scale government and also the possibility for organisations representing many in this country to come up with a case. It could be those who represent the private kindergartens, those who represent the pensioners, different patient groups and other non-governmental organisations. The Chairman of the Financial Committee, Schjøtt-Pedersen, today says that they have only been revised for NOK 700000. It might be like a template. My question is, is there really room for adjustments, or have the government parties closed the door for all these groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e670	The answer is that there is room for adjustments, but I must stress two important reservations. One is that it is demanding to make adjustments when the framework is laid down. You have to not just agree on what to add, which is certainly easy to agree on, but you also have to agree on what to tighten up. It's the last problem that always turns out to be the hardest one, and I don't want to create any false, unrealistic expectations. But it's up to Stortinget to see if you can find common containment to fund common additions. The second thing I want to stress is that I think that the room for dialogue with the Storting, dialogue with the opposition, is even bigger before we present the issues. There's a good dialogue about retirement. I want us to have a similar dialogue with the State Church, and like other major and minor issues, because then space is bigger and freedom of action is greater.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e677	The oral question procedure is over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e683	There will be some changes in the set-up questionnaire, and the president here refers to the overview that has been divided into the room. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Audun Blegen to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Renewal and Administration, who is directly responsible. Question 5, from the representative André N. Skkelstad to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is moved and answered to Question 14, i.e. at the end of the Questionnaire. Question 6, from the representative of Gunnar Gundersen to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, has been transferred to the Minister of Knowledge who is directing him. Question 12, from the representative Odd Einar Dørum to the Minister of Justice, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 13, from the representative Bent Höie to the Minister for Renewal and Administration, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State for question 1, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e704	‘The government at different levels buys construction services for approx. 80 B.C.E. kr in year. The construction industry is struggling with the fact that there are many unprofessional operators in the industry. The construction industry does not want unprofessional enterprises to be entrusted to contracting authorities. The contracting authority must act in such a way as to promote serious undertakings. What can public authorities do to stimulate a more serious industry through their procurement and contracting practices?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e711	First, I have to start by thanking the representative for the question, a very good question, to which I have been happy to answer because it is important that we are busy with this, both in store and in government. I agree with the representative Blegen that it is important that the state only uses a serious company for a mission. However, it is the individual enterprise itself that is responsible for doing so within certain given frameworks. But the government has a lot of tools to make sure that the companies are doing this within these frames. Firstly, we have legislation on public procurement, which applies both to the state doctor and to the municipal sector. It requires those who wish to participate in competitions for public contracts to demonstrate that taxes and charges have been paid and that health, environment and safety rules are respected. In the current legislation, it assumes the obligation when the contract exceeds its value the national threshold. As the previous government raised the threshold last autumn, the tax certification obligation and the HMS certification obligation for purchases fell between NOK 200000 and NOK 500000. It is positive in view of a reduced document requirement for business and thus savings in some administrative hours in business, but it is unfortunate in that it can be with and build up under unprofessional actors, who thus have a room for manoeuvre in relation to the documentation requirement. Therefore, the Government introduced a decision that when purchasing more than DKK 100000, everyone should submit a tax certificate and an HMS certificate. In addition, government agencies are required to comply with ILO Convention No. 94 on pay and working conditions in public contracts. In practical terms, when government agencies enter into contracts for services and construction work above the EEA threshold, the contracts shall contain clauses ensuring employees' pay and working conditions that are not worse than those applying to the same type of work in the same district. I would also like to inform the representative of an independent initiative that I took in relation to my colleagues as late as 25 September this year. I wrote a letter to the other members of the government, stressing that government leaders have a responsibility for the fact that the state is not using a non-profit-making company, and that this responsibility also applies to contracts that are below the purchase limit, and not least it was a reminder of ILO Convention No. Ninety-four. I explicitly asked them to take it up with the leaders of the underlying states, so that we are sure that the state does this in a proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e722	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I am very pleased that the Council of States is exerting so much pressure and raising public awareness of the importance and value of serious actors. However, I am of the opinion that the industry itself does not become more serious than it builders, whether it is private or public, suggest that it should be. The previous government cooperated closely with the construction industry on the issue of seriousness. One of the concrete measures established was a qualification scheme called StartBanking. This is a pre-qualification scheme that meets all public documentation requirements for enterprises, while at the same time StartBANK contains a number of additional information confirming the firm’s seriousness. The system can be used by builders to check whether businesses and entrepreneurs are serious, in a simple and cost-effective way, as the Council of State was also concerned about. Within the framework of the law, it is possible for the public to use wording which allows for the use of Start Bank membership or equivalent arrangements, rather than for one to submit all the necessary standard documents in each bid round. And the question of follow-up is this: will the Council now take a direct initiative towards the departments and not least the municipalities in order to make them use the wording that opens up to the use of these types of quality assurance schemes?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e731	I am very much in agreement with the representative who says, but I just want to comment on one thing: I think that the industry itself has a great responsibility to clear up its own rows, precisely, to which the representative refers, through the cooperation that one has had with the authorities now everywhere, and especially before the construction industry, which has got a lot of order on that particular thing with the black economy. In particular, one in the cleaning industry has had a clean-up operation, in which one operates with a corresponding scheme for the enterprises called ‘Clean Development’. I think we've done a lot in relation to the legislation we have. It applies to the procurement law, the ILO Convention has been signed up, and it applies to the work I have now done in relation to my colleagues in the Council of State in stepping up this relationship. But we also need to be clear that there may be quite proper, proper companies both in the construction industry and to the extent in the cleaning industry that is not in the organisations that the representative points to. We're going to make sure that they're not excluded because we're calling for the special use of someone who's chosen an organisation connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e738	We're going to go to question 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e745	‘1. In October, VG had an article stating that Director Paula Tolonen resigned from his position in the Directorate for Foreign Affairs and moved to the Norwegian Asylum Seekers Organisation [[UDI]] [[NOAS]] Is this a general system of national wage and staff policy, or is this a newly established practice?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e757	The background that I get this question is attached to my senior responsibility for the state's wage and staff policy. However, I will not discuss the content of the representative’s question relating to the name and state activity, but will answer the question in general. Some permits are statutory. Birth, care and parental leave are of that type. We have other permits that are regulated in the contract work between the parties in the government sector of the world of work. So I'm going to think about it. on the right of leave of trustees governed by the main agreements of the State. Permission to work in other activities is not strictly regulated, nor is it provided for in the contract or as administrative guidelines based on my ministry. It is quite common for a worker to be granted leave without pay when a worker goes to another enterprise, and as part of resolving a staff case, it is also necessary to provide some kind of financial compensation, either when the employee goes off, or as a leave of pay for a shorter or longer period. However, this is by no means a comprehensive scheme. There are a few times that has happened, and that would have been best for both the enterprise and for it even when one has chosen the solution locally in the state enterprise.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e764	I'm also going to deal with the matter in general, but the example has just been drawn out because it illustrates a system that I think for most was a big surprise that was practiced at all. I would also like to ask the Council of State more precisely because she mentions that this has been the case: Does this scheme include more? Are there people in the past who have had similar arrangements for such a long time with such a high salary? And does it include the more recent UDI system? After all, the state is a significant, large employer who has a lack of activity. It surprises me very much that it was not possible to find other jobs in the state that these people could complain when the state is paying top pay to these people anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e771	I'm not going to go in and answer concrete questions about UDI. It is under the responsibility of the Minister for Labour and Inclusion. I can answer in general that there is no reason to claim that this is of a large size. Had it been of a large scale, we would have had to go in and see if this was a relationship that we should regulate more closely, for example. in the general legislation of the permit. But as I say, when creating such arrangements, it is usually in connection with a request for a change of person, but without a service relationship or any other reason that would rent for cancellation or separation. The reasons why the rental wants a change in person may be different. It may be that the employee is creating a work environment problem that needs to be solved quickly, for more out of the way reasons where it is perceived as a burden on the employee to remain in a position. In other circumstances, it may be the employee who himself wants a shift for a short or longer time, combined with the employer looking at it lightly for the state enterprise. But the main point is that this is a solution that can be found at the workplace in a union between employers and employees. There is a flexibility that we think must lie in the legislation, and when it does not have a large extent, there is little reason to start regulating it more closely because, for example, if you are a member of the European Parliament. does not like the one decision mentioned here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e776	The small size of this does not make it less difficult in principle for the State, when it is probably the country's largest employer, to allow an employee to pay private businesses and organisations for such a long period of time in order to resolve a staff case. It should have been possible for everyone in a comprehensive state enterprise to find other activities within the country. This also means, in reality, some sort of hidden support for an organisation, of 1.4 million. kr, and all those engaged in voluntary work know that there is significant financial support. In fact, there is also, not least, significant support in relation to the competence of an organisation that is perceived as a counterparty in this context. So once again, I want to ask the Council of State: is it that we want to see more examples of this plan being used by state-owned businesses, namely, giving employees leave of pay for such a long time to start working in private businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e781	I can't answer that, because, as I've been told, this has happened in a few individual cases, where employers and employees have been certain that this was a good solution for the state department. Had it had a larger scale than it had, we would have looked at whether it was possible to regulate it. But I'm sure that exactly the representative from the Right will be busy just supporting that one has a large degree of decentralised administration also attached to the human resources around the states, and that we should not start regulating it and thus get a rigid and square code that prevents finding local solutions to the challenges there and then in the local state department. Square solutions rarely use to benefit anyone, and at least it doesn't help an effective management to have a kind of response to all kinds of challenges. So until this happens to be a scale that makes us think we can intervene, I feel that the state budgets have a flexible regulatory framework that makes them take decisions like this when necessary, because it was the best thing for the state budget, and it was the best thing for the employee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e786	We go back to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e793	‘According to NTB 13.10.05, Minister of Finance Halvorsen concluded that 15 years of dispute over the use of gas power plants had now been resolved. On 12.05.06, the Minister of Energy, Mr Enoksen and the Minister for the Environment followed up with a press release stating that there was an agreement on gas power policy. Such ‘clearances’ should result in predictable framework conditions around, for example: CO2 for the gas power project in Mongstad and the revised project in Forest. It doesn't. What are the foreseeable framework conditions for gas power operators actually obtained from the Government?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e803	Man-made climate change is one of the major environmental challenges facing the world. It is therefore important to avoid new large sources of emissions and to stimulate the further development and deployment of new technologies for CO2 management. This government has ensured that CO2 management is no longer just an airy vision, but a goal it is systematically working to achieve. The investment in the state budget of 860 million. SEK for research, technology development and CO2 capture activities at gas power plants are visible evidence of this. I have noted that the industry has taken note of the Government's ambitious CO2 management policy. Statoil and Shell have launched plans for a value chain on the Tjeldbergodden. Industrikraft Mid-Norway is also connecting its revised project at Skogn to the work of putting in place value chains for CO2. I cannot foreshadow what demands will be made in the emissions permit for the gas power plant at Mongstad. The matter is still under consideration, but I can say as much as it is now in the final phase. I would like to point out that the Soria Moria statement that all new gas power plant concessions will be based on CO2 management is the basis of the Government's assessments. As regards Forest, the Soria Moria Government has promised to contribute to CO2 management at Forest if it becomes appropriate to build this gas power plant. If the company now wishes to build gas power plants under conditions other than those set out in the existing emissions permit, it will be up to the company to apply for a change. The conditions which could then be imposed must be assessed when an application is submitted by the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e839	I think the answer here illustrates very well the problem that I am dealing with, because what the Council of State says, shows that there is no predictability for operators who want to build gas power plants. Everything is kept secret, one must enter into secret negotiations with the Government in order to know what kind of framework conditions around CO2 are going to apply. There is no predictable and open enterprise policy, as promised by the Government. It is interesting to hear that the Council of State believes that CO2 management has finally arrived on the map. Already when the Storting dealt with the climate notification in May 2002, a large majority decided that all new gas power plant concessions should be based on CO2 clean-up, so this is no new revolution from the Government. What's new about this government is that there's no predictability in what demands businesses will actually meet if they want to build this. The question then again is: what predictability do the actors have, for example: Statoil in Mongstad, which has spent many, many years and many dozens, if not hundreds of millions of dollars to get a project, for how does the government handle such applications?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e857	It is true, as Solvik-Olsen's representative says, that there is a great deal of consensus in the Storting on CO2 management and the need to take one of the world's most important environmental issues seriously. I'm glad the Storting has a common understanding of it. In terms of framework conditions for companies and industry, it is an important condition that they are engaged in CO2 management, because we have to be a forward-looking industry. With regard to the specific applications, they must be dealt with as usual when examining applications for emission permits.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e870	It's almost a year since Statoil sent the application. The government has had this application inside since at least January – as far as I am aware of the matter. It's been treated. Nothing's come out until now, in the last few months. The government has known that 20 to 22 years ago. September, Statoil had to have an answer; we are now well in the past. To the climate debate as councillor Bjørnøy the denominator. One coal-fired power plant is being built and opened every week without CO2 cleaning in China, and the state’s own company, State Power, is building two gas-fired power stations without CO2 cleaning in Germany. But in Mongstad one must not be able to build a gas power plant with foreseeable conditions. Instead, end up with an eternal discussion in the Government. There is no money for CO2 cleaning in Mongstad in the 2007 budget. This means that the Government intends to allocate money for CO2 cleaning in 2008 at the earliest. How does it relate when we know that Statoil wants to start building a gas power plant on Mongstad in the autumn of 2006, and the Government – at least the Government’s own party – wants this to happen in parallel?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e891	Statoil has many applications in place to build gas power plants. Some have been treated by the NVE and the Ministry of Oil and Energy, some are sent to the Ministry of Environment. An application for an emissions permit was sent to the SFT in June 2005. SFT gave its position to the Ministry of the Environment in August this year, and we have spent time from August until now on negotiations and talks with Statoil. I can't, for understandable reasons, come into the content of that dialogue. But I can assure you that the decision will be taken quite quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e902	I am delighted to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘The LOWS Committee submitted its opinion on 4 October. The attitude has many good judgements and suggestions. It is important to speed up the follow-up process. The climate challenge is well documented, but the sample has only limitedly clarified the policy instruments for following up the sample proposals. A broad political anchoring of the measures is important. Will the State Council present its own forecast based on the setting of the Low Emissions Committee, and when will this be?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e911	As also mentioned by the representative Hareide, the low-emission set-up was delivered to me on 4 October. There is no doubt that this report will be a very important input into the Government’s long-term climate policy. We are already in the process of triggering a number of the measures proposed. This applies, inter alia, to: CO2 capture and storage for the production of gas, sector climate action plans, new climate quota law, car charges and phase-in of biofuels. The setting of the low-emission committee will serve as a basis for a decision on a generation target in climate policy. The committee’s recommendations on action extend forward towards 2050 and thus go beyond the short-term climate policy aimed at meeting the Kyoto Protocol’s first commitment period from 2008 to 2012. Nevertheless, the long-term measures recommended by the sample are broadly consistent with the approach taken by the Government. The follow-up to the setting up of the Low Emissions Committee will be an important basis for the organisation of a more ambitious climate policy after 2012, i.e. after the first commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol. In these days, the government is considering how to follow up the configuration of the Low Emissions Committee, and I will come back to Stortinget on how to do it concretely.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e923	I thank you for your answer. I am very pleased that the Minister for the Environment is showing commitment to this field and taking the climate issue seriously. I understand that the government has to assess this and come back to whatever form is appropriate to present such a large and comprehensive case. I strongly urge the Government to present its own big message on such a big issue, which requires the participation of so many departments. And I think it's quite natural that the Ministry of the Environment, with its competence, is the leader in such work. I would like to ask a specific question: the Council of State was involved in the generational goal. In Norway, for example, the Council of State assesses return to the Grand Duchy with concrete targets for emissions and reduction of emissions. towards 2020 and 2050?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e930	I would like to stress that I take the advice that I have now received from the representative Hareide, to come back with a big message, very serious. It's an assessment we're in the process of doing, and I'll definitely pay great attention to the recommendations that big business representatives make to me. In terms of a generation goal, it's among the things we've said in the Soria Moria statement that we're going to achieve, so that's also part of the assessment we're now making.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e937	When the low-emission selection was set down, it was assigned to reduce 50-80 pst. They have now provided a setting where they say that they can reduce emissions by two thirds, i.e. 66-67 pst., by 2050. It's very important that the goal is at least at that size, and that the government doesn't signal that one will dampen the level of ambition when it comes to a problem that we actually see getting bigger and bigger for every day that goes. I understand you're doing your job, but it's a huge job. The previous government also came up with measures, such as agreement with the PIL and prohibition of landfilling, and we set in motion an allowance system. I think that such a great deal of work as the Lavage Emissions Selection now points out requires something more than the daily follow-up, and so I would like to stress once again that an own big message, from the Ministry of the Environment, is necessary in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e942	As I said, I will evaluate it – and we will do it in these days – and I will come back to Stortinget when we have made that assessment. I would like to stress that climate issues – climate challenges – are one of the world’s most important issues in the environmental sector, and therefore the Government has very strong ambitions in this area. I can assure the Storting that this is a work that has a very high priority in the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e953	That was a touching consensus we now witnessed. Let me start by saying that I hope the Council of State had a nice trip to Trillemarka yesterday. I have the following questions to the Council of State: «The war process in both the Hyllingsdalen and the Trillemarka–Rollag have created a large debate locally. The government has said that they will focus on good protection processes based on debate with local forces and good dialogue with the Storting in order to create the widest possible majority for their policies. On July 15th, the representative Ola Borten Moe said to the nation that he saw it as natural that protection which was clearly greater than the Storting had given his consent was to be dealt with in the Storting. Will the Storting get these cases processed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e964	Trillemarka–Rollagsfjell protection is part of the work on increased protection of forests. In March 2003, the Ministry of the Environment of the then State Council, Børge Brende, initiated proceedings to assess the protection of a larger forest area in Trillemarka-Rollagsfjell. The area of the forest that was explored for new protection was approx. 161 km2. In the autumn of 2003, the Stortinget voted on the following proposals: ‘The Government is asking the Government not to create a large new nature reserve in Trillemarka – Rollag Østfjell in addition to the part of Trillemarka that was protected in 2002’.» The proposal fell by 77 to 21 votes, thus continuing to assess the protection of a larger forest area in Trillemarka–Rollagsfjell. The Ministry of the Environment has recently received the recommendation from the Directorate for Nature Management on the protection of Trillemarka-Rollagsfjell. The matter will be dealt with in depth in the department. I attach great importance to getting input and views from the various parties to the case, which I work closely and extensively with. The government will decide on the scope of protection for the area towards the end of the year. The need for funding related to protection could only be estimated once the scope of protection has been clarified. A case will therefore be submitted to the Stortinget on funding early in 2007. As regards the Hyllingsdalen, a proposal for the protection of the area, including four nature reserves in the municipality of Røros, has been sent at the hearing in spring with a deadline of 16 June. The level work is part of the follow-up of St.meld. No 62 for 1991-92 New country plan for national parks and other major protected areas in Norway. The total area of the protection proposal is approximately 345 km2. Different spatial scope and demarcation proposals were mentioned in the National Parks Communication. In the course of the 1993 notification, the Storting did not take a concrete position on either the form of protection or the size of the area for the slightly more than 50 protection proposals in the country plan. This was later to be clarified by the ordinary protection planning process under the rules of procedure laid down by the Nature Conservation Act. For Skardsfjella–Hyllingsdalen, significant protective qualities were also detected northwards and westwards during the subsequent documentation work. These are values that were not known when the big message was produced. As a result, the County of Southern Trøndelag has promoted a protection proposal that is in the area larger than that indicated by St.meld. No Sixty-two. Through meetings and hearings, the State has obtained useful information as a basis for assessing the consequences in relation to different user interests. In the near future, the County Council will make its recommendation, which will be further discussed by the Directorate for Nature Management. Then the matter goes to the Ministry of the Environment, which clarifies the case for protection for the decision of the King of State Council. Such a procedure and the exercise of powers are in accordance with the provisions of the Nature Conservation Act and common practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e994	I am so familiar with what the Council of State says about the law on nature protection. Then I find once again that the plays of Ola Borten Moe are playoffs he must take on his own coat, not on the basis of the Government and the majority he represents. In the case of Hyllingsdalen, it is worth saying that the protection area is dramatically increased compared to what has ever been mentioned during the bulk treatment. It is possible that it makes sense, but then I think that Stortinget should have the opportunity to express its opinion on the size of the protection. That being said, local communities are being hit hard. In my opinion, the piece in the South-Trundellag will be removed and universal if this protection is implemented. Storing politicians Sigrun Eng says that if the greatest option in terms of protection in Rollag is implemented, it will mean the beginning of the end of Sigdal and Rollag. Then the lights in the tunnels in 10-20 years' time will be lit only in the Easter. Are these concerns shared by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1007	It is important in all protection processes that good dialogue be established with all involved and all different stakeholders. This is done through meetings and hearings held by the State and is done in contact with the Directorate and the Ministry. I attach great importance to getting all the different points of view in the cases. For this reason, local interests, the concerns of the population in different regions and communities, are also of great interest. Much emphasis is placed on the role of the Ministry of the Environment and the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1012	I hear what is being said. Obtaining views is an interesting way of working, but it'll be little fruitful if these points of view are not heard. I would like to point out that, in relation to Trillemarka – Rollager, it is referred to in the media and from the government that there are three alternatives – 100, 150 and 200 km2. As I see it, no extension of protection is also an option that you have to include in this picture. The government has said it wants a lower level of conflict. At the same time, we know that the Minister for the Environment has recently been criticised, among other things. by the Forest Geyser Association because voluntary protective measures are not being implemented. We also know that the Nature Diversity Act is about to be completed in the department and will be at Stortinget in a short time. We also know that the Joint Committee will soon be publishing its position, which will also have an impact on Norway’s foreign policy. Then I think it would be time for a break now, until these matters have landed in Stortinget, so that the Stortinget will be able to share its opinion on Norwegian foreign policy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1022	I want to make it very clear that for the Government it is not appropriate to introduce a protective break. We follow the plans we make. But I think it's quite possible to combine a clear strategy for the protection work with good processes that take care of local interests, that ensure that all views on a matter are heard, and that you have the opportunity to make recordings. That's why it's important that we take the time we need for the necessary processes. Because when the processes are good, there is also, with great probability, a greater chance of success in good protection and good management in the work afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1027	Question 5 will be answered in response to question 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1035	This question, from the representative of Gunnar Gundersen to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, has been transferred to the Minister of Knowledge who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1038	I am delighted to ask the Minister of Knowledge the following questions: «Adm. dir. of the Research Council. Arvid Hallén has a discussion with the NHO on the Research Council's websites on 21.9. It is the North Region Strategy that is the theme, and in the introduction, Hallén refers to ‘The Research Council is not a business policy actor’. This is alarming in the light of several strategic research projects undertaken by the Research Council and of the many priorities that the Research Council must make among research projects. Does the State Council share Hallén's view of the role of the Research Council?»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1047	The Research Council is a management body with special powers which is administratively bound by the Ministry of Knowledge. Therefore, this is a question that lies below my portfolio. The current Statutes of the Research Council were laid down in kgl. Res. 20 December 2002. The articles of association include:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. «Norway Research Councils are responsible for increasing the knowledge base and contributing to the societal needs for research by promoting basic and applied research and innovation.» In addition, it says: ‘Norway Research Councils shall work to promote innovation in the business and public sector throughout the country’ and ‘work for coherence between basic and applied research and innovation’. [[...]] The visibility of the Research Council’s responsibility for innovation has been an important element of the reorganisation process the Council has undergone. The Statute provides that the professional activities of the Council shall be organised in three units where one shall be responsible for innovation and user-initiated research. The size was briefed on the status of the reorganisation, the different roles of the Research Council and the future expectations of the Council, at the latest through the consideration of St.meld. No 20 for 2004-2005, Will for Research, spring 2005. I myself have good contact with the Research Council and its Executive Director, and I have never been in doubt that the Council and CEO Hallén are aware of the role that the Council has in promoting research-based innovation and innovation. In his question, the representative Gundersen draws a quotation from a discussion between the main business organisation and the Norwegian Research Council. The background to the discussion is that the NHO has sent letters to four departments that the North Region Strategy of the Research Council focuses to a large extent on the negative consequences of increased petroleum activity in the north. The Executive Director of the Research Council has stressed to the Department that the statement to which the representative Gundersen refers could have been more precise and that it could be misunderstood if it is read out of context. The director of the Research Council says that what he wanted to communicate was that the Research Council, unlike the NHO, is not a business-policy stakeholder organisation, but has a broader role. There is no disagreement that the Research Council has been and will continue to be an important player in achieving innovation and innovation in Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1075	I appreciate the answer – I had not expected any other answer in myself than that the Research Council is aware of this. But the statement was pretty easy to read out of context, because there were very few who knew about the discussion with the NHO afterwards. I know that the opinion was noticed in quite broad environments. It was removed from the Research Council's website just after I asked my question, so those who might have tried to find it again afterwards did not find it. I interpreted it to you that the Research Council here was aware that an opinion had been made that was not very fortunate. I think it is important that such an important actor as the Research Council is precisely this responsibility conscious – how strongly the signals and priorities they make work out of society. That's why I wanted to take up the statement, without going too far into the discussion with the NHO.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1082	Of course, it is nice to be able to clarify misunderstandings related to a discussion between the NHO and the Research Council. Let me just underline that the Research Council manages a portfolio of 900 million petroleum-related research. DKr, and as late as June, 160 million was granted. kr for oil technology projects. The Research Council has a broader mandate – like the Northern Region Strategy of the Government, which is concerned with many different and important fields, where the petroleum field is one. Of course, cooperation with Russia is important, but it has a broader mandate and is a broader field. We're putting a heavy strain on petroleum research in the north. The Research Council manages very many of the money Stortinget makes available for this – and does so in an excellent way. The opinion that gave rise to some interest is an opinion that should not be read out of context, but precisely in the light of the fact that there is a broader mandate for both the Research Council and the Government in its Northern Region Strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1091	We are well in agreement that the same Research Council has a job to do in relation to being very conscious. The Research Council also has strategic fields of activity. There is no doubt that, as a result, a priority is given to Norway’s national rates of research and development. No one disagrees, but then one must also be aware that in many ways it functions as a policy signal to the wider community. I asked my question simply to draw attention to the very role that the Research Council has here. There's no disagreement that they have to make priorities, only you're very aware that those choices are actually quite important. That's why I wanted to draw up this statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1098	I thank you once again for clarifying what might have been a misunderstanding. Of course, the Research Council and its Executive Director are fully aware of the mandate given to them and follow it loyally. Our government has a broad commitment in the north, of which petroleum research is a very important pillar, which I have just underlined. Substantial funds are made available in this respect, funds which, of course, benefit various Norwegian research communities. In the next round, there are also others who benefit from the significant activity within this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1109	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘Member States grant large sums of public innovation schemes each year, but there may seem to be a different practice in the counties in the practice of establishment schemes. Founders of new and good projects experience that the application process is so extensive and complex that they are rejected. Will the Council of State take an initiative to look at the legislation relating to the establishment scheme, so that the practice of the rules becomes more predictable and less bureaucratic?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1118	In the establishment of Innovation Norway, it was stressed that the economic instruments should be adapted to regional challenges. The role of the county council as a development actor has increased the autonomy of the county councils. The framework for county municipalities varies according to industrial and district policy objectives. Overall, this implies different priorities from state to state, among others. based on local policy objectives for industrial development. One consequence of this is that the result of the treatment of individual applications may vary slightly from state to state. The grant to the Innovation Grant Scheme Norway is granted by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. The individual municipality chooses to give priority to the use of the scheme and may provide leadership. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is now reviewing all the schemes against the new regional aid legislation that comes from 2007. In addition, they have asked Innovation Norway to consider how to set up a new scheme to support different operating costs in newly established establishments. Recently, Innovation Norway’s grant schemes for entrepreneurs were evaluated, and the conclusions of the evaluation were very positive. In order to ensure that the projects supported are economically and economically viable, the application process is important. Innovation Norway will challenge entrepreneurs and businesses before projects are launched. The appropriations shall enable the establishment and enterprises to realise new ideas and projects, develop and internationalise their activities and find their partners. There is a demanding process, which imposes great demands on both the applicants and Innovation Norway. I think it is important to have such a thorough treatment in the allocation of public funds. Innovation Norway maintains an important balance between overall national objectives and county leadership. This is a system that I believe is well served by the founders and established businesses, and which we should therefore develop further.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1129	I thank you for your answer. As mentioned above, a number of innovation funds are allocated on the basis of locally adopted plans. This means that even if an applicant can have a good project, which can develop jobs in a part of the country other than where the applicant lives, the application is rejected — with reference to the area of activity in the county. It should not be the address that determines the outcome of the application. As regards the application procedure, there may be up to 10-15 different forms to be completed. This may be so – if the application forms are specific enough. For instigators, this costs enormously, both in money and in time. In many cases, entrepreneurs/establishers are more concerned with the project itself than with the application procedures. That's why I hope the Council of State will take the initiative to simplify the form field, which too many people feel is the biggest obstacle to getting started. We in the Progress Party are clearly also in order for projects to be safe when they are supported, both in terms of business and socio-economical processes. It must be made clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1141	I agree with the representative of Thorsen that it should be an ambition that the availability of the innovation instrument of Norway – insofar as all public instruments – should be as good as possible. The fact that Innovation Norway was established as a single company was, after all, a lot based on the fact that it would be an advantage for business to have one door to address. I myself, as rapporteur, have tried to help businesses in the start-up phase when we had the old system, because a lot of the job was to figure out which door to knock on first. This in itself is a major step forward. Better opportunities for electronic applications are now being developed, for example: in the case of establishment grants. Innovation Norway, SIVA and the Research Council will jointly improve the technological capacity to identify systems through network solutions. Innovation Norway continues to carry out customer studies that lead to adjustments in its practices to get the most satisfied customers, but – as the representative also says – within the assurance contained in the quality assurance of applications. My ambition is that we should have as little bureaucracy as possible, but we should have as much quality assurance as necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1148	I thank you for your answer. Some improvement in the availability of applications is positive. However, we in the Progress Party are also concerned that the application forms should be as bureaucratic as possible. They should be of a standard type, with specific questions and clear notice of which annexes are requested, and not as they are today. Today, an applicant, in cooperation with a business adviser in the municipality, may feel that it is completely impossible to get an answer to what information is requested. This may take many days. It also results in the use of a lot of municipal resources, with consequent economic and personal consequences. I hope that the Council of State will review legislation and application forms for the establishment, and not least to reduce municipal and regional resource use. I understand that there has been a change in relation to Innovation Norway. I hope it's a continuous process to simplify this system. This must be done in close cooperation with the local authorities, so that one can hear where the bottlenecks that stop some projects are.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1157	As I have already mentioned, perhaps the most important tool is to improve routines, both in terms of quality control and in relation to customer-friendly treatment. The study carried out by Innovation Norway itself reveals whether customers are satisfied with the service they receive in Innovation Norway. As I mentioned in my first response, the evaluations carried out show, for example: in relation to the establishment scheme, that there is a great deal of satisfaction with the way customers are met. Of course, this does not prevent one from working with improvements at all times – and that is innovation in Norway. However, what I don't think is going to be possible is a completely equal treatment from state to state, because there are different programs and different activities in the different states. It is clear that the possibility of getting an impact on the value creation programme for wood projects is likely to be significantly greater and more relevant in Hedmark than in Finnmark, while the effort we have on marine technology and development will be more topical along the coast than it will be in Uppland. Therefore, the type of local adjustment that could lead to discrimination would precisely provide the appropriate treatment in relation to the projects that are being treated at all times in each Member State. I believe that local influence is also valuable for industrial development in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1168	‘E39 from Kristiansand to Stavanger is one of the most adverse routes. Last week there was another fatal accident at Lenfjorden in West Agder. There have been several fatal accidents here in a short time. The police and the state road service have pointed this out several times, but there is little they can do except to reduce permitted speed. The combination of narrow roads, strong turns and large height differences makes the distance extremely dangerous, as the Truck Car Association points out.’ – We note that 72 people were killed in West Agder on this stretch from 1990 to 2006, and a week and a half ago we had another death. Something has to be done here. – ‘What will the Council of State do with this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1175	The events on the E39 make it clear that one needs both short-term and long-term measures. The short-term measures relate to speed limits, signs and measures to improve adhesion. The Swedish Road Administration, in consultation with the Länsmannskontoret in Lwigal, has decided to reduce the speed limit from 70 km/h to 60 km/h. That's true of the entire offshoot of Lenfjord. In addition, the Road Service will sign the route with the ‘Outline’ sign. A few days after the last accident, friction on the road surface was measured. It is within the conditions that apply. However, the state road system will ensure that the asphalt cover is delayed so that the friction is even better. By means of the 2007 draft budget, the Government has decided to implement the national transport plan by financial means, contrary to the previous programming period, when the Progress Party participated in the adoption of the State budget for three out of four years. There is now reason to look at the State Road Service's action programme with a completely different degree of realism than before. This action programme for the Tribal Road Network has a priority of 15 million in the period 2006-2009. to measures to improve road safety in Lenebakken in the place where the last fatal accident was. The measure is planned to be implemented in 2008-2009. For example: improving the road safety of the E39 in West Agder is a priority for the development of the road between Vigeland and Osestad in the State Road Authority’s 2006-2009 action programme. It has been added to plant start at the turn of 2008/09, with completion in the period 2010–2013. National transport plan for the period 2010 to 2019 is now under preparation. Major improvements, distance investment projects and measures to improve road safety between Osestad and Oftedal will then be assessed in conjunction with other current projects to improve congestion on the Kristiansand////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1188	I thank you for your answer. With regard to precisely the route we call Osestad–Herdal, which is an extension of the route that the State Council itself pointed out, i.e. Vigeland–Osestad, it is actually an opportunity to implement this route on the route Vigeland–Osestad, where it is intended to start in 2008. We also know that in the E39, in Rogaland, only 12 km has a full highway standard, and in West Agder, it's zero kilometers that have a full highway standard. We want the Council of States to be positive, and hope that she can confirm that the Osestad–Herdal route can be implemented in the Vigeland–Osestad package, so that there will be a road safety E39 on this whole route, and that it will not just be broken and divided, because we know that is a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1197	If a previous period had done what this government is doing, simply following up the National Transport Plan, we would have come much further with a view to getting a good standard on a larger part of the road network in this country. It also applies in West Agder. I can't do planning here and now, and I promise you that I'll give you promises for a project that's ahead of me. It would have been unprofessional, and I don't have sufficient grounds to do so. But what I can say is that we have these lines in focus. I have done well for what is contained in the national transport plan and which the Progress Party has also agreed here in Stortinget. Then, in addition to that, I'm going to provide a good basis for the priorities of the next National Transport Plan, which the Storting will have in two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1204	I know exactly what the Progress Party has proposed in its revised budget, and there is a national transport plan most in place, so I do not think it should be debated now. But in addition, it turns out that one spends on this distance on E39, i.e. rv. 465, which is built with toll financing, etc., is built at a width of well over 6 metres, which will mean that two combinations of vehicles cannot actually pass each other without having to run outside the external border. This is a major problem even in summertime, but not least in wintertime. Can the Council of State promise that she will look at the problem, so that on this route we get a road that is adapted to the current traffic, and so that we do not go back into the future, because it was actually built a better and wider road 30 years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1211	Of course, I'll take a round and go inside and see what happens on Rv. 465. However, in general terms, I would say that the road standards that have a basis for planning are the standards that are also in the national transport plan. And the traffic on the road has been tied up to the width of the road. Now, the Directorate of Roads has already developed new road standards to be applied to the next national transport plan, and in this context, of course, I will also take with me what the representative here says, that the roads we are now building must be wide enough to ensure that heavy goods vehicles are also safe and well-passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1222	We're still on the southern roads. I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘E18 between Harebakken and Rannekleiv in Arendal is planned to be extended to a two- and three-field motorway for the first time, and subsequently to be extended to a four-field road when the increased allocation comes into place. The whole route between Arendal and Grimstad could thus be situated as a two- and three-field road, while the route between Grimstad and Kristiansand is now being developed as a continuous four-field road. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the E18 in Agder is extended as a four-field road for the repair of new sections?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1231	Based on policies and economic frameworks provided through the 2006-2015 national transport plan and in the following programme of action for the pedigree network, the E18 between Harebakken and Rannekleiv will be upgraded to road safety during 2008. In 2006, the first part of the route between Stoa and Rannekleiv was upgraded with mid-drawing and pre-passing fields. Midpointing works between Harebakken and Stoa are planned in 2007-2008. These measures will improve road safety and the development of the route. Midpoints of the section between Grimstad and Kristiansand are also established as part of the current OPS project. In East Agder, significant improvements have been made in recent years to the E18 between the Telemark border and the Risør, with new two- and three-field roads and mid-drawing works on parts of the route. Based on the volume of traffic on the current route, which is approximately 5 500 YEARS, the standard is calculated to be satisfactory for many years to come. Further development of E18 between Risør and Arendal is not a priority in the national transport plan for the period 2006-2015. This section is assessed by the revision of the National Transport Plan for the period 2010–2019. If the development of the route is prioritised, the planning will be based on the current tribal road normals. Today these indicate that four-field roads will be built when annual traffic is estimated to be more than 10000 vehicles 20 years after the opening of the traffic. If the route between Risør and Arendal is prioritised in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, standard choices will be made through an ordinary planning process, such as: base the traffic and route forecasts. The Government has agreed that major construction projects must be subject to quality assurance at an early stage, so-called KS 1. E18 throughout Telemark and until Grimstad is subject to such a concept assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1244	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As the Council of State is aware, the E18 in the South has been the most important battle cause on the edges of the country for many, many years now. Positive results have been achieved, but there is still much to be done before we can say that the tribal road in South Africa has a satisfactory standard. I would say that it is a little satisfactory solution to build two- and three-field roads when we know that that's not what's going on in the South. In the case of new E18 expansions in the South, it is well that the Council of State believes that there would be an advantage if this were built as a four-field continuous road, and that we do not get this clumsy expansion of two- and three-field roads that we now get, which makes it difficult to get a full four-field continuous road through the Agder counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1251	For the Council of State and for the Government, it is important that we have a system of non-discrimination in all parts of the country. Then we have to have a system of standards that are related to traffic numbers. That is what has also been done at the plans currently in place for E18 in the South. The number doesn't indicate a four-field path to the entire E18. It's easy to follow the representative and say that right here we should have done it. But then there are ten, and maybe twenty and thirty other representatives from other parts of the country who have their way that they would also like to have a better standard than the traffic rate. In NTP, we will present the new standards and standards that will apply to the road network. That's when Stortinget gets his word on it. But for me, this is also about equal treatment throughout the country. We also have to have that on the E18.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1260	The main problem for this government is that too little money is allocated to the government budget for road use. The government has every opportunity to increase the road budget in Norway. Norway is no longer a poor country with difficulties in increasing appropriations for the construction of more new and more traffic-safe roads. The representative before me referred to a look as a numerical attachment to how many road accidents there have been, first and foremost, on the main road network in the South. I myself have experienced road accidents close to my heart and seen the consequences of them. Better roads, and then I'm talking about four-field roads, is what will contribute most to saving lives. I hope the Council of State can come to the conclusion that for the future, all the construction of a tribal road in the South will take place according to four-field standards.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1269	When the representative claims that too little money is allowed, I have to say with respect that we have just submitted a budget where we are increasing the amount of traffic by 2 billion kroner in excess of what the previous government laid down. It was a government with which the Progress Party actively supported and had active budgetary settlements. It's not like these needs have come up in the last few years, they've been there for a very long time. Nor was Norway a poor country when budgets were smelted in the previous period. When there is a quadruple road or not, I am responsible for it. We have standards that we're going to succeed in. We are going to start a new NTP, and the discussion that the representative addresses will certainly also come to the discussion about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1276	The next question reminds us that it goes against Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1283	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The Nissen in Norway is at the Savalen in Hedmark, which unfortunately not everyone knows. Therefore, there has been a need for signs, something that the Road Service is not interested in. Could the Council of State be helpful in providing signs so that both young and old can find out, according to the TV 2 news on 3 October 2006?’ [[and other traders]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1292	Today, there is a good sign for the city of Savalen from Rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox Those who want to visit their residence in the Savalen can follow the sign to the Savalen and find their dwelling when they come to the Savalen. Signage of the service and other operators must be limited in order not to draw the attention of road users away from traffic to the detriment of road safety. This applies particularly along important main roads such as Rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox The daemon also has other dwellings in Norway. I don't see that learning children and growing up about the different homes of the daemon around the country is a priority task for the traffic controllers. However, I cannot decide on the specific matter. If the daemon or any of his helpers want it in a busy pre-Christmas period, they can bring the matter before the Road Directorate, which could then do a more extensive review.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1301	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I thought was less serious than I would have liked. As I write, this also applies to other traders. As far as I know, the Council of State is from a party called the Center Party, which has district policy as one of its fanatics. In any case, the Progress Party and the undersigned believe that the objective of rural policy should be to be able to live in the districts and live by something they produce, as far as possible. Many traders are trying it, including along the lines of Rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox But when you don't get to sign up for the activity you're doing, it's hard to continue to live on it and to live in the districts, as the Progress Party wants. A good district policy is that people can live there and live on what they produce. Of course, we're not for everyone to put up signs. But it's important that you have an opportunity to set up signs that explain what you're doing and where you're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1310	I mean I gave a good and serious answer. This is about road safety. This is about the fact that there are also hundreds in the districts, not to say thousands, of companies that would more than want to have a sign along the road that showed the road to their business. As district fighters, I would like to give them more than that, if it wasn't for us to get a little sign along our main roads that pointed to all the hundreds and thousands of great district companies that would like to show up and get on the road to get into their business. To be very serious, this is about a restriction – which the representative is also involved in – and how we are to ensure road safety, that the road is in focus, and that we have room for road signs and information signs that are linked to travelling along the road, and not to all the companies that I understand more than I would like to market with a sign along the road. The representative can ask more than a question to the Directorate of Roads, which has been delegated responsibility for the sign issue in Norway. If he wants a more in-depth answer to this, we can come back to it. But this is the main reason why one has had such a policy in Norway for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1317	I thank the Council once again for the answer. On 8 January 2003, I asked a similar question to the then state councillor, Torild Skogsholm, who answered the following: ‘It will always be possible to discuss where to draw the limit for local guidance to different enterprises and businesses. Road authorities shall not be more restrictive than necessary and must therefore keep under constant review whether current practices are at the right level. The Road Directorate will start this year a full review of the technical legislation for the use of public traffic signs, and the guidelines for road signs will then be reviewed.» That is, this is a matter that has been going on for many years, and it is important precisely for the districts. As the Council of State now mentioned that rv. 3 is a road dangerous to traffic, I'm a little surprised that not rv. 3 got more money, so it could be a safer way, and maybe you could put the sign up. I am not that we should set up signs everywhere, but important companies – in this case I mentioned, and that TV 2 also picked up – must be allowed to show what you are doing, and not least where you are doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1329	In the case of rv. 3 and priorities, follow the priorities set by Uppland and Hedmark in their so-called lottery ticketing. When it comes to the sign issue, this council has been busy with it. I was among others. a sign for the Golden Roundabout in Trøndelag, because a whole area here has developed a very exciting project – travel, tourism, economic development – and thus a sign on the main road. But it takes a lot more to make a difference from what is normal and to set up signs along the main road for businesses and individual businesses. I insist that for me, road safety is superior to that. In fact, it also overrides the fact that companies would like to have a guide along the main road. Who in all days should set the company boundaries? Only in my own neighborhood could I probably have counted up 50 companies that could have thought of separating the E16. What will it look like if we have a road that is safe for those on the road? To go back to what this started with, simply a local road sign to the daemon, I would also say that there is no sign of a local road sign to the Dröbak daemon, where some of my services do too. A regular danger sign with the daemon symbol is configured approximately. 250 m before one comes to Drøbak center. There is no signer configured along E6 to show the daemon in Drøbak. But those who visit the daemon in Drübak follow the sign to Drübak, and then they find out where each of the nits is going. Of course, it can be done in Hedmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1340	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘According to the low-carbon setting, the transport sector accounts for a significant and increasing share of greenhouse gas emissions. In view of this, public transport is very important. A prerequisite for further development on Fornebu is a good collective solution. What will the Council of State do to fulfill the promise made by the State of initial collective redundancies to Fornebu?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1349	Fornebu was closed as an aerodrome in 1998 and an area of nearly 3,400 decks was released from development. In St.meld. No 46 for 1999-2000 National Transport Plan 2002–2011 provided the existing government with State co-financing of the railway solution to Fornebu within the railway network to double track on the Skøyen-Sandvika route. This was followed up in the work of the National Transport Plan 2006–2015. In St.meld. No 24 for 2003-2004 National Transport Plan 2006-2015, road solution for Fornebu is described as follows: ‘The Ministry of Transport estimates a State contribution of up to 600 million. kr limited to a given crown amount over the scheme of alternative use of valances.’;» Responsibility for the construction, operation and government contribution to the project is mentioned in the annual budget proposals. Paths to Fornebu will be part of the secondary path network in the Oslo area. As mentioned in St. prp. No 1 for 2004-2005, the district of Akershus has adopted the automatic path solution and has taken on total operational responsibility. The responsibility for obtaining funds for construction and operation lies in Akershu County. Like the representative Borghild Tenden, I am busy reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector. Better use of public transport will be an important tool in this context, especially in cities and urban areas such as Fornebu. As mentioned in St.meld. No 24 for 2003-2004 the State has committed itself to helping with funds for investment in infrastructure. So that's 600 million incorporated. kr in the action programme for investment on the rest of the national road network in Akershus in the period 2006-2015. I am aware that there is still a part that is unclear about the planned project. Akershus County Council has agreed at its meeting on 21 September 2006 that alternatives other than automatic rail should be provided. The alternative is the city track with Snarey bus, bus/urban train and Fornebu bus bridging. The Road Service of the State is invited to participate in the distribution work. Until Akershu County Municipality has made these arrangements, I stick to the decisions taken and to the economic priorities made in connection with the national transport plan 2006-2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1363	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I know well what they want in Akershu County. A new investigation that the government parties there – they have turned the case around – plus the Progress Party now want, seems to be a training of the whole case. This can lead, in worst cases, to a complete halt to the development of Fornebu. A bus solution, which is then an alternative temporary, long-term or full-term solution, can lead to 70-80 buses during the rush time. This is a major environmental problem and a problem of E18. What will the Council of State do to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1372	As I said, I'm similar to the representative tending to increase the collective share of the transport network. The question is also mentioned in the setting from the Low Emissions Selection. There's the same goal perfectly clear. But I want to repeat what I said in my answer: it is Akershu County Municipality that is with the initiative here. It is Akershu County Council that must do its part of the job before the Council of State can address this matter. I have respect for local and regional powers. I realize that one of them needs some time locally to do a distribution work, which is supposed to be completed in January 2007. If this leads to a better solution for Fornebu, it may be worth waiting for. We will get back to it when the finishing work is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1379	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I also have full confidence in local democracy. But the background to this question is that this matter is now in fact completely blocked. All investigations are on the table. These are operational responsibilities and a fairer distribution of the operational resources that Fornebu will generate in the future. That's the only thing that can solve this bunch. And the crowd is between SL and NSB, I know that the Minister of Transport knows, it's going on a fairer distribution between NSB and SL. I ask again: will the Minister for Transport look at this and solve this crowd at Fornebu?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1388	The district council of Akershus has always been aware of the limits of government debt in this matter. There are no new items to appear after the change of state council. There are no new moments that have occurred in recent years, since the Fornebubanen decision was taken. I felt quite early that a person thought that a much better basic material was needed than what is currently in place. It covered both quality assurance, cost estimates, traffic base and operational arrangements. It is Akershus County Municipality that is responsible for providing the final estimate and financing plan for the project and making the basic decisions that must be in place before the project can come up and stand. I also gave the same answer to the representative Jan Tore Sanner on a written question – it was probably October last year. I have nothing more to add in this matter than to respect the judgements made by the majority in Akershu County. I have a good dialogue with Akershus about the matter, and will follow it in the best way from my place.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1408	This question is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 13 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1417	It is a question to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs: ‘The Bergen City Council has just addressed a new contact to both the Minister for Fisheries and the Minister for Transport on the establishment of alternative routes to Bergen, an expressed condition in Stortinget’s assumption for the construction of the Ashøy Bridge. The bridge is too far built, toll payments are almost complete. Alternative sailing routes remain missing and constitute an increasing restriction on the development of Bergen port as a national cruise port. How will the Council of State follow up the enquiry from the municipality of Bergen?»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1426	I have received the enquiry from the municipality of Bergen, where the mayor sends the decision from Bergen City Council, where the City Council requires the alternative route to Bergen Port through the Nau and Skjelangegersundet to be realised. The City Council also points out that the only natural solution in today’s situation is that the Storting must treat the shipping industry as its own matter independently of the national transport plan and fully finance the project. As I said in Stortingets Question Time on February 15th this year, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs of St.prp informed. No 1 for 2004-2005 that the Swedish Coast Guard Agency would assess the alternative trajectory project to Bergen port towards other projects related to the development of the Coast Guard Programme for the follow-up to the National Transport Plan. In St. prp. No 1 for 2005-2006 for the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs states that the Swedish Coastal Agency has assessed this project against other projects. The coastal works consider that, on the basis of an overall assessment, there is no basis for prioritising this project now, as there are other projects which should have a higher priority. The Ministry joined this assessment. However, it is noted that the project has to be assessed in line with traffic developments and the size of the ships that may be involved in calls at the port of Bergen. This is still my position on the matter, which I communicated to the rapporteur in Bergen when I met him yesterday. Future priorities will therefore have to be seen in the light of traffic trends and the pace of ship replacement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1437	I thank you for your answer. It is correctly referred from the 2006 state budget that the small hope and the small reservation that lay there were to assess developments in line with traffic and ship size. In its reply of 15 February this year, the Council of State said that the Government would follow developments. But it has gone from bad to worse, because there is no mention of the project in the 2007 draft budget. Traffic development is good and strongly increasing. But at the same time it's a major challenge, because new and larger cruise ships are still being built that require a height of more than 62 meters, which is the altitude limitation on the Ashøy Bridge. And it's against this background – that traffic development is strong, and that the number of ships requires a altitude of 62 meters – that Bergen's city government combined, based on the government parties in Bergen City Council, has addressed a new request to the Government to get help to get the project in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1446	I am very well informed about the attitude of the Bergen City Council in this matter. I understand very well the local commitment to this project. But there are also a lot of other good projects around this country. Most of our coastal planning frameworks are tied up for both 2008 and 2009. It is true that many of the boats get bigger, but here we also have to be able to see the pace of the replacement. So, how fast is it going? I will continue to follow that up, but we need to see this project up against other relevant port and fairway projects. We don't have our own pot next to the funds we have for port and fairway managers.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1453	Thank you for your further reply. What's special about this project is that it doesn't appear in line with a number of others. It has a history that is linked to a premise of the Stortinget when building a concrete bridge, namely the Ashøy Bridge. Does the Council not see that this requires special treatment in order to put in place a premise that the Storting has actually set, but that is still not met? That's the one. The second is that, in my view, it has to be considered that such an alternative route will actually relieve existing internal shipping links. There is a great deal of traffic of smaller vessels both to and from the port and there is a high level of inland waterway traffic, so that an alternative route will significantly improve the road safety of those ships that go to and from Bergen port and along the coast of the inner link.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1462	I'm familiar with the history of this project. In view of that, I also understand the commitment Bergen City Councillor and other policymakers from Hordaland have to this project. At the same time, the project is now defined as a port and fairway project under the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. Since we have to make an overall assessment, where we both look at the elements of this project and also look at all the other needs that exist in Coast Norway. But as I said, this will be considered when we are going to make future priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1467	We go back to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1474	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘The flood that hit the North Trøndelag in January this year led to a great need for protective measures as a result of erosion and race in some watercourses. NVE Region Mid-Norway states that the costs of the hedging measures would amount to approx. Thirty-six million. kr. The affected municipalities have to pay a dividend of 20 pst. by the security measures themselves. Can the Council of State assure the affected municipalities of Nord-Trøndelag that they are given the excess?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1483	In recent years, the size has several times determined that the district should contribute to security measures where the NVE provides assistance. The Storting concluded in June 2004 in connection with the flood in More and Romesdal. In St. prp. No 1 for 2005-2006 became the whole 20 pst district share scheme. re-examined at the request of the Stortinget. The Ministry concluded that the applicable rules on the territorial share of security measures should be maintained. This conclusion was taken into account by the size of the budget. This means that the district share must be paid by the municipalities if the measure is not covered by the exemption provisions. Except for district shares: crisis measures implemented in flood action that reduce the risk of loss of life and greater material values, e.g. as a result of action by mercury where there is no clear party benefiting from the measure, e.g. environmental measures to prevent pollution or to improve conditions for fish; Grung municipality complained to the ministry about the NVE's refusal to apply for coverage of the district share in connection with security measures after the flood in Trøndelag in the last winter. In the department we have gone through the individual security measures carefully, but the exceptions cannot apply to these cases. The Ministry therefore rejected the complaint last Friday. I hope the representative of Skkelstad understands that it is necessary to give priority to security measures for those areas which are most vulnerable, in the light of the allocations provided for by the budgetary procedure here in Stortinget. However, although this government has provided for an increase in overall appropriations for 2006, the absence of a regional share of all flood-related measures would lead to the postponement of important pre-construction facilities elsewhere. The municipalities of Nord-Trøndelag must therefore unfortunately be prepared to pay the 20 p.m. district share. to the safeguard measures that have now been implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1504	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was not necessarily uplifting for the flooded municipalities in the North Trøndelag and in the West. In the Nord-Trøndelag, the municipalities are left with a bill of 7 million. kr after the NVE has made the necessary security measures – money that should have been used for other tasks, or money that the municipalities do not have. On its tour in the flooded areas in winter, the Council of State said that no one would be financially harmed when infrastructure was to be rebuilt. I believe that a municipality like the one he mentioned himself, that is, Grong, with 2,600 inhabitants and an already tight operating budget, will not be harmed by getting 1.5 million. NOK in extra costs? And is the Council of State willing to settle the situation so that you can look at a pay-down plan for the municipalities in question?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1511	First of all, the government set up with extra funds and allocated 52 million. kr in the revised national budget for protective measures in Trøndelag and in the West. In addition, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has granted 44.7 million. kr in exceptional judgement of municipalities that have incurred additional costs as a result of natural damage. This came out a press release about last Friday. Therefore, municipalities with particularly high additional costs have been able to cover all expenses in excess of NOK 250 per person. the population. Flattanger has e.g. has been covered with 97 pst. of its additional costs, excluding the district share of the security measures. We have thus far fulfilled what we, the Minister of State and the undersigned, collectively said on our journeys in the North-Tronde Team. Unfortunately, as I said, if the state were to take the entire bill, it would have to go at the expense of other projects. When it comes to a amortisation agreement, of course, I'll take a positive view of it if it can help with the situation in Grong.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1520	I thank you for that. I think this was an interesting invitation from the Council of State. Obviously, the NVE has received 52 million. NOK, but it still does not help the municipalities, which have to out by 20 pst. the excess share of those hedging measures. So to the more principled: when one comes out of natural disasters of this magnitude around the country, it will result in huge expenses. Does not the Council of State mean, then, that it is the task of the big society to contribute fully to compensating for the costs of such natural disasters?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1529	Indeed, and the large community also incurs significant costs both in relation to precautionary measures in advance, in order to reduce the risk of this type of natural damage and, in particular, in relation to flood remediation and natural damage. Then there are some exceptional situations where the state covers 100 pst. And as I said in my first answer, the department has gone through the situation in Grong and unfortunately found that none of the measures taken there come under the exceptions that were therefore proposed already from the previous government, to which the Stortinge joined, and to which I have to deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-11.ana.ud2417e1534	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
