ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e45	The called alternate of the Nordland County, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, has taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Mr Hans Olav Syversen on leave from 28 February to 3 March in order to take part in the Committee's visit to The Hague and Sarajevo by the Group of the Party of Presidents on the leave of the representative of Mr Thore A. Nistad from 28 February to 3 March in order to take part in the delegation of the Interparliamentary Union to the 50th session of the United Nations Women's Commission in New York. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Uppland County: Morten Ørsal JohansenFor Oslo: Aud Kvalbein
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e80	Morten Ørsal Johansen is proposed to be elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Thore A. Nistad. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Aud Kvalbein is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e88	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected President of Stortinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e98	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e123	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 65 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a succession of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government and three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e134	The main lines of the Bergen programme have previously been adopted by Stortinget through the treatment of Innst. S. No 45 for 2002-2003. What Stortinget now deals with is a revision of the tolling system. Anyway, I think it might be right to say something about the elements that make up the program. A Document No has also been promoted. Eight proposals from the Progress Party which we are dealing with at the same time as this vote. This proposal requires the Stortinget to instruct the municipality of Bergen to hold a binding referendum on the construction of the urban railway and the use of toll financing, before the Stortinget will decide on these aspects of the Bergen programme. I will come back to this later in the article. The majority of the Committee has decided that Stortinget will follow Innst. S. No 94 for 2005-2006, and thus the Stortinget also follows Innst. S. No 96 for 2005-2006 and rejects Document No. 8:2 for 2005-2006. The Bergen programme is a right and important initiative for the municipality of Bergen. Traffic forecasts show that without action Bergen would have cork, queue and chaos in 2005. It is therefore also three city councils since May 1999 who have made positive decisions on the Bergen programme. The programme consists of four elements. The ring road west is a new four-field highway from Kokstad to Liavatnet in the Füllingsdalen. This road is part of Bergen's outer ring road system and will improve the accessibility of the major economic areas south-west of Bergen. The Skansen tunnel is to go from Christie's Gate in Bergen centre to Bontelabo in Sandviken. If you're known in Bergen, you realize that this is a project to relieve traffic across the square and above the worthy Bryggen in Bergen, which is on UNESCO's list of cultural memories. This will be a great pleasure for the urban environment in Bergen. Environmental measures, such as: consist of walking and cycling routes, road safety measures and centre measures, are also important parts of the programme. The city track is planned from the centre through the labour-intensive and populous corridor from the centre through the Bergensdalen and out to Flesland. The first construction steps from the centre to Nesttun are scheduled to be completed in the autumn of 2009 and will then be 50 pst. of the planned route. This is the same route that we are dealing with today's financing plan. The mountain has an urban structure and size which makes it not desirable or possible to base future transport on increased use of cars. The development of a better collective system is crucial if Bergen is to be able to improve accessibility and if we are to be able to create a better environment. It is also important to mention that Bergen faces major spatial challenges in the near future. Norway's largest city after Oslo is rapidly growing, and it is important that we bet properly so that we do not now create even greater challenges in the future. The urban alternative is low in area demand, while at the same time it has the highest transport capacity compared to the other alternatives mentioned. In this context, it should also be said that a full vehicle set on the urban runway would be 1.5 km of automotive queue. Performing a census in the morning noise on this section confirms the forecast that many take-offs would have full carriages during these periods. The municipality of Bergen also has a larger proportion of its densely populated area covered by road than other Norwegian cities, such as Oslo, Trondheim and Stavanger. The argument that the urban runway is a little land-intensive should therefore weigh heavily. In spite of this, there is in particular a party that has tried to doubt the city track. The Progress Party has on several occasions highlighted Gaia’s metrobuses and NSB’s desire for a railway-based solution. They say that they are surprised that the municipality has not drawn Gaia and NSB, with their competence, more strongly into the project. I want to say to this that it might not be so strange, as neither metrobuses nor NSB's proposals respond to the challenges that the municipality has given itself. Metrobuses would create major challenges in the Bergen Centre and not respond to the long-term visions of the urban railway project. Furthermore, the project does not cover the maintenance costs of infrastructure, and there is also considerable uncertainty as to whether the vehicles are suitable or will be approved for use in Bergen. The NSB solution responds well to the challenges of transport between Flesland and the centre, but does not respond to the future challenges, nor does it provide the same opportunities for urban development along the route as the urban railway project does. I would like to take the opportunity to praise the municipality of Bergen for the forward-looking attitude they have taken in this matter. They focus on a forward-looking transport solution – a transport system that Bergen can plan for further growth around, and that will be the backbone of the Bergen collective system. A growing number of major cities see that road construction cannot build itself out of transport problems, and there must be a collective effort. I think everyone who spent a few days here in the country's capital, realizes that this city couldn't look like it's doing today, if we had a road and a bus instead of a tram, a track and a local train. I hope that several cities will follow in Bergen's footsteps and bet on an environmentally friendly and efficient transport system that the city railway represents. There has also been doubts about the operational responsibilities of the urban railway, and this is clearly mentioned in Chapter 7 of St.prp. No 75 for 2004-2005. We in the majority are clear in our remark that these are the assumptions that now form the basis for the Bergen programme to be launched. The point of progress gives the impression that the Storting through St.prp. No 75 for 2004-2005 has a shopping list, and that we can shop for the elements we like there, and then plug into other shopping centres to complete our list. This, of course, is not the case. The Bergen programme is based on a broad compromise in the municipality of Bergen, where all parties have given something and taken something. If we were to suddenly remove some of the elements of the program, the whole basis for the proposal would fall. I think there is reason to ask whether the Progress Party is really as concerned with local democracy as they claim. In Document No: 8:2 for 2005-2006 they call for a referendum which will be binding on the municipality of Bergen. The municipal law of 25 September 1992 is based on the representation of the residents by the local council and the local council cannot waive its obligation to take decisions on behalf of the municipality or decide to make a referendum binding. It would therefore be to regard it as an infringement of the local authorities if the Stortinget were to enter and hold an advisory referendum and, in practice, to deprive the local government of the opportunity to take the decisions they consider to be right. If there had been a referendum in this case, it had to come as a wish from the local government in Bergen. I would also like to take the opportunity to point out that I do not see the great moral obligation to hold a referendum on the type of collective solution to be chosen, while obviously – if the Progress Party had had its will – it would have to launch large road projects without having a single referendum on it. Then I have to ask myself whether it is such that the Progress Party is in such good contact with the people's will that they are familiar in advance with the outcome of both these referendums and therefore only see the need to hold one of them, in order to carry out their political will. Where then has it become of the people's right to be heard in terms of principles? Furthermore, I would argue that the Progress Party is now trying to bring the people of Bergen into the dark and dry, when they are now trying to adopt parts of the Bergen programme without even having a financing plan in place. Should their proposals be adopted, it will not be realistic to start construction in the near future. The Progress Party is well aware of this, but they do not want to take this into account in order to get away with cheap political points. There is now a broad majority, from SV to Right, who are involved in creating something in the municipality of Bergen. That the Progress Party is on the sideline of this, they have chosen themselves and can thank themselves for it. I wish the municipality of Bergen good luck with a good and long-lasting program.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e176	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e179	Two things for the representative, Wickholm: The working party gives its whole-hearted support to an urban railway concept, where the observed effect is zero in terms of increasing the collective share in Bergen. The observed effect is to move only collective users from the use of buses to the use of roads. How can this be the solution to the Workers' Party's alleged challenge for Bergen, namely that we need an increase in collective farming? We don't get any effect from the Byban. The second is: I would like the representative, Mr Wickholm, to repeat his description of holding a local referendum. I think the comments of a majority of the committee deserve it, because they boast of arrogance towards the inhabitants of a city that, of course, wants to say something when they are charged with a bill of DKK 3 billion in new tolls, and when they are applied to a whole new system that is untapped in Bergen, and which breaks down with flexible solutions where both bus and car can run together, by switching to a new system that is reserved exclusively for the track.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e188	I would like to thank you for the recordings of the representative Blackevik. When it comes to moving from bus to train, Blackevik is probably also familiar with the effects seen elsewhere in the world where you have chosen to bet on railing collective systems rather than buses. Several places around Europe, in cities comparable to Bergen, there has actually been an increase in the collective share – something that can be called the rail effect. This is often between 15 and 20 p.m., and it must be said to be a formidable increase in the number of collective travellers. What I tried to get to the representative of Sortevik was that I don't see the big difference – why you have to hold a referendum on the city track, when you're not willing to do the same about the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e197	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e200	The mountains need a decent road network. Norway’s second largest city lacks a well-functioning and forward-looking road system, despite the fact that the inhabitants of Bergen have been paying tolls for many years. Bergen also needs a well-functioning public transport system for the whole city, a flexible system with a clear economy. The mountain program doesn't provide any parts. The Bergen programme is a major transport project. The framework is a total of NOK 5.3 billion, and of that amount, the population is going to pay a total of NOK 3 billion. Once again, the mountains are subject to a huge extra tax to pay the bills of the state. The State’s own contribution is less than 40 p.m. in total. On Ringveg west and the city track are the state contribution 15 pst, respectively. and 10 pst. The Storting has dealt with the Bergen programme before. I refer you to St.prp. No 76 for 2001-2002. The reason why it's coming back now is that tolls paid seem to be less than intended, and not least that there has been a significant increase in costs. This applies in particular to the Urban Railway project. It has been twice as expensive as previously assumed! I am one of the very few in this room, I would think, who have followed this project – as a former municipal politician in the municipality of Bergen – from the very beginning when the municipality itself recommended the bus as the best, cheapest and most flexible collective solution for the whole of Bergen – but it was before the politicians entered the city track – to the most expensive, at least flexible and least efficient collective system for one part of the population of Bergen. According to the assessment of the Progress Party, the urban runway part of the Bergen programme appears as a monument of political insensibility. The main road project is the construction of Ringveg west – a project that will remove a large bottleneck in today’s road system. We have noticed that external quality assurance has been implemented, and that the project has great and positive socio-economic benefits. The second major road project in the Bergen programme is the Skansen Tunnel. Despite the fact that this project has been mentioned primarily as an environmental project to reduce traffic congestion in Torget and Bryggen in Bergen, this important project has not been put in place within the financial framework we are dealing with today. The rationale is strangely a reference to the great uncertainty associated with the other two main projects, Ringveg west and the city railway. From the point of view of the Progress Party, we would first of all like to point out that the greatest uncertainty is directly linked to the urban route: poor professional work and unsolved economics. Too bad the majority will let the experiment postpone the environmental action Skansen Tunnel! The big project in the Bergen programme is the city track. I repeat that, in the opinion of the Progress Party, the project is poorly funded for transport and that the economy of the project is unclear. The project has a high risk, a risk that the municipality of Bergen as a builder obviously has no concerns about imposing on the city's inhabitants. Even the municipality spends insignificant money on the city track, and the state's share in this project is 10 pst. The rest shall be financed by tolls. The Progress Party considers that the State has a significant responsibility for quality assurance of projects with a high level of toll financing. The Progress Party believes that the Stortinget, through the Trade Committee and wholesaler treatment, has a special responsibility for ensuring the quality of such projects. Who else is to speak the case of tollpayers when such projects are promoted on the basis of purely political decisions, without a democratic foundation in a referendum? In the opinion of the Progress Party, the project is not sound and elucidatively quality assured. The city track is to go from the Bergen centre to Nesttun – one of several corridors in the southern part of the city. It is a collective solution for one part of the city – not for the whole city. Many stops give low speed. This is going to be some kind of squat where 70 pst. of the expected passengers, an additional pass from bus to runway in relation to today’s solution, which is purely bus-based. The urban runway has a marginal impact on the proportion of public travellers; it only transports the traffic from bus to train. The urban runway does not meet the requirements of State authorities for alternative use of public highway vehicles by decision-making. The urban railway will not reduce the need for road development in the Bergen area. If the main challenges are to get more people to travel collectively and reduce the need for road development, the Bergen programme does not respond to these challenges. In order to patch up a poor solution, the Ministry requires that the operation of the urban railway should be based on a high-frequency food bus service and that the municipality of Bergen has a unambiguous operational responsibility for the railway. High-frequency food bus arrangements will amount to approx. 50 pst. of the entire urban railway project – however, no explanatory quality assurance is carried out by the State. The Progress Party warns against the consequences of the responsibility placed on the municipality of Bergen. The Stortinget also deals with Document No. 8:2 by the undersigned and the representatives of Hagesetter and Woldseth on the referendum on tolls and urban railways. The Progress Party not only wants an advisory, but binding referendum in Bergen on as important issues as the choice of collective solutions and decisions of a total of DKK 3 billion in tolls. We record that the Council of State believes that this cannot be done. The party of progress disagrees. It is in the system that toll-based projects are to be approved by the Storting and the Storting can take its lead in such projects, as is often the case. We record that all other parties believe that even an advisory – not binding – referendum must be rejected, on the following grounds: ‘The majority would also point out that it would be very difficult for a municipality to oppose the advice given by an advisory referendum. In view of this, it would be an infringement of local self-government to oblige a municipality to hold a referendum.’ In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Stoltenberg Government states that it ‘will facilitate the use of local referendums’. Here's an excellent opportunity. The answer that includes, among other things: coming from the government parties that now govern the Soria Moria Declaration, it is therefore an infringement of local self-government if we are to ask the citizens of Bergen what system they want for public transport for the next 15-20 years, and how they see that they are now being served a bill of DKK 3 billion in tolls – a bill for the development of transport in Norway's second largest city that the state should and should pay, in the opinion of the Progress Party, but which is thus a majority sovereign service to the inhabitants. The advance party wants as the only party to let the mountains themselves decide whether they want the city track, and whether they want to have tolls. In our view, therefore, the Bergen programme appears after today's treatment, where, on behalf of the people, we have tried to get a referendum, as a monument to political arrogance. The Progress Party has an alternative and comprehensive proposal to address the traffic and environmental challenges facing Bergen over the next 15 to 20 years. I refer you to our suggestions, which have thus been taken up, which I will come back to a little bit more in detail in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e243	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e248	In this case, the party of progress has marked itself as strong opponents of an exciting and forward-looking solution for public transport in Bergen. The party of progress once again shows its true face as an immature and slightly forward-looking party. For the party, only private carism is the solution to all transport challenges, and so is the case in this case. They are also opponents of toll financing in Bergen. But in Oslo, the transport agency Peter N. Myhre, from just the Progress Party, is a member of tolls. How can the Progress Party support tolls in Oslo, but not in Bergen? This seems a little unprincipled to me. I wonder if Sortevik can answer this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e255	We still have the view that the state has to pay the bills to expand infrastructure in Norway. When we meet today's media, we meet that we now have an oil fund – which is actually still an oil fund – approaching NOK 1500 billion. We can afford to expand our transport structure in Norway, and we can afford to do so with state resources. That's still our vision. With regard to being forward-looking and modern, there is an urgent need to show that the urban railway project in the Bergen programme is just forward-looking and that it is modern. So it's moving passengers from bus to train, but there won't be any more public travelers. So it's a significant challenge that remains when a majority of the Stortinget is taking this solution down the mountain heads.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e263	The mountain program is a whole. Here, the political majority in Bergen and Hordaland have gathered on a package, which is also funded. The Progress Party only supports parts of the package, two of the projects. But then it's the hook that it's a significant toll financing. So even for the projects supported by the Progress Party, there is no NOK 1 billion. Later today, we are going to deal with more toll projects, so by the end of the day, the Progress Party lacks DKK 2.5 billion in alternative funding. My question will then be: how will the Progress Party include these funds in the financing plan? Can we expect the Progress Party to show in its annual budget the coverage of these missing funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e272	Before the day's end, we've dealt with two major transportation projects in Hordaland, within a total framework of over 7 billion kroner. And then we've put a bill in the population of $4 billion. We want the state to pay these bills. In our alternatives, both to government budgets and not least to national transport, we have shown that we are using more state resources to build a transport structure in Norway than the other parties are willing to. Today, we are not dealing with a national transport plan, but our point is to point out that when new toll billing is provided to the inhabitants of Norway, it is fundamentally unnecessary. That the state, which is a crawler, has the money to build roads in Norway, we actually think quite a lot of the people agree with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e277	The representative Sortevik says that the population of Bergen is headed by the Bergen programme. Question no. 1: Isn't it in a way a little arrogant to all the other party's voters than their Advance Party to pronounce such a thing – when the great majority follow the will of all the other party in Bergen, not the Advance Party – and call it to tread something over the head of the people of Bergen? Many of us are in favour of and believe it is necessary for a car in the districts, but for the Progress Party it is absolutely necessary for a car everywhere, despite the fact that one knows that people are dying of air pollution, people have problems because of asthma and allergies, the noise is marked by hundreds of thousands and industry notices the loss from car cows. Question no. 2: Why is it that the Progress Party does not want a collective effort at all, such as, among other things. can help allergy sufferers and business?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e284	To the last one, it's a positive error. Those who have followed the development of the Bergen programme know that the Progress Party from day one has been committed to bus as a collective solution. We've underlined time and time again, and we're doing it again, and we're doing it in our proposal, which I'm going to come back to – 10 minutes is not enough: the collective solution that's best for Bergen, which provides a collective promise for the whole of Bergen, a flexible and economically sound collective solution for all the inhabitants of Bergen, is a bus-based solution. So when it comes to three things down on people's heads, it's like there's one party missing in this popular game, and it's the people, and the people's opportunity to directly, by being asked about concrete things, to express what they actually mean. The people of Bergen have been quite clear that they want a referendum. When the Transport Committee visited Bergen not long ago, 20 000 signatures were collected requiring a referendum.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e291	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e294	Once again, we see that the municipality of Bergen and the mountains are innovators in the development of forward-looking transport solutions. Already in the 1950s, the Pudefjord Bridge of Laksevåg and the Eidsvåg Tunnel saw the Åsane light of today, as a result of creative solutions and people who wanted something for their city. The projects were financed privately, paid for by the user, operated privately, and handed over completed payments to the State for free exploitation. There was a system the Council of State might want to look into even today. Later, bold plans were made to get Bergen a decent place, an ambitious road package that would solve traffic energy problems in Bergen by means of a fissure layer between the state and the mountains. The country's first bombing was a fact, and a few years ago the bombing in Bergen was completely automatic, unmanned – first with this solution as well. This we're going to see more of the other places in the country. In other words, in Bergen you have almost the tradition of finding new and untraditional solutions in a city with a limited area between mountains and fjords, and that's what's needed. But there has been a great boost for the population through, among other things. user payment. Once again, new solutions are being launched, this time with considerable emphasis on collective and environmental considerations. The largest road project, Ringveg west, will solve an ever-growing traffic problem in the west and south due to the change in workplace location represented by the fast-growing areas of Kokstad/Sandsli and Flesland. The urban railway can become a model use if Bergen arranges and facilitates this action in a way that attracts passengers. The review within the Committee has revealed operational responsibility between Bergen and the other partners. As we perceive this clarification, it is assumed that the offer to be given by the city railway is designed within the framework that the municipality of Bergen intends at all times for the purpose. This, of course, includes the resources provided by the pilot scheme. Construction train 2 to the lagoon is challenging, but it brings great benefits. It will be exciting to follow and see when this important grip on public transport in this corridor can continue. With a future E39 approach from the south to this area, this provides exciting opportunities. The third pillar of the Bergen programme is the Skansen tunnel, which will also relieve the important environment on the Bryggen world scale. The right is a little worried that this project has come into the background, and therefore reminds us that this must not be sacrificed for the benefit of the other two big ones. The mountain program is a whole where all three are included. For our part in the Right, we would have liked to see the Arna tunnel through Ulriken as an important environmental project. There would be large emission reductions and the possibility of a very rational bus offer from Arna. But it's not for treatment today, so we'll get back to that on a later occasion. During the Committee's visit to Bergen, we were made aware that the NSB had its own plans for the city, partly very bold plans for the Voseban and the Fleslands train. The hook, however, was that the railway station and the municipality of Bergen were not connected with the NSB. From this platform I must express a little wonder about this, but at the same time I would encourage the parties to engage in dialogue and interaction in the best interests of the city. The mountain is the capital of the West and needs a visionary grip on the transport challenges and solutions. Today's decision provides opportunities, and I am convinced that Bergen will manage these opportunities wisely. That's why I don't really expect this to be the last time we from the Stortinget are invited to future-oriented solutions that can develop the city and the transport structure, while being conscious of its historical and architectural values.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e313	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e316	The Bergen programme is very much influenced by a political compromise. I'll come back to that later. The representative Halleraker says that the operational responsibility has been clarified, and that the Right is familiar with it. On page 21 of the election, the Council of State stated in a response from the Ministry of Transport: ‘In my opinion, the meeting provided a simple oral clarification. However, I would have liked the local policy decisions of the municipality of Bergen and the municipality of Hordaland related to operational responsibilities not to contain financial reservations, as it can now be seen.’ My question, then, is this: if the urban railway and operational responsibility are to be kept within the collective framework and the urban track against the majority's assumption is going to be in deficit, can we risk that it will be at the expense of public transport in other parts of Bergen, or would it be necessary to seek to increase the already existing deficit in the municipality of Bergen by nearly NOK 1 billion?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e326	Now, it's probably not like Sandberg ends his post, that the situation is so gloomy in Bergen in terms of the economy, with another $1 billion deficit, as he suggested. There have been very positive things in Bergen in recent years, so you're about to get rid of this deficit. When it comes to the operational responsibility of the city track, I repeat what I said in my post: it is actually quite up to the municipality of Bergen to do this in a way that makes them get the maximum out of the means they choose to put into the action, and this of course includes the money you get from the state within the trial scheme. We cannot do anything more from Stortinget in that matter. It is the municipality of Bergen that has asked to build this railway, and then they must be allowed to do this as they themselves wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e333	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e336	I want to congratulate Bergen on the day, to say it like that. I myself have challenged other cities to follow suit. Stavanger has responded positively and is doing a similar project. It has been a long time, but now it comes out of the drawer again, when Bergen gets the city track and the Bergen program in place. The mountain program has many aspects that make it fit well into our new red-green government's thinking on the area of travel. More transport by collective solutions, it says in the Soria Moria Declaration. About the Bergen programme, it says in the proposition: ‘The objective must be to allow public transport to take on greater market share in relation to the private car as a whole and to transfer as much as possible of the expected traffic growth to collective transport solutions.’ This is something that pushes forward; the collective solutions in Bergen are pushed forward because one is choked by car traffic. This should actually have been cleaned up before, but now you're starting on a clean-up. The recognition in Bergen also applies to several Norwegian cities. The growth of car traffic, which some parties add to, destroys the city and the urban environment, acknowledges Bergen. Hundreds of thousands in Norwegian cities are plagued by noise, people are asked to stay indoors, car cows out and in from cities weaken the competitiveness of industry, and – not least – the growth of car traffic increases greenhouse gas emissions and thus anthropogenic climate change, including. multiple breeds and whistling as a consequence. The challenge to Bergen and the nation was further reinforced by the twist from car to road and bus. The city course now shows way and will hopefully give courage and will to spice layers also in other cities. As I said, my home town of Stavanger is in the process of following. Hordaland SV will have the urban runway in all directions, also in cooperation with the NSB. It's quite straightforward, local and national. The urban runway in Bergen must be spread out in the region if the use of cars is to be reduced so as to monnar. Then Bergensbanen has to be upgraded and built out. If we have a travel time from Bergen to Oslo in five hours or less, we can also reduce it. air traffic pollution units, while reducing car traffic. The growth in freight transport on Bergensbanen is a good example of the possibilities we have for us to be farsighted – as we are in relation to the urban railway and the Bergen programme. The consequences of a course effort are well known: of course, there will be less noise and air pollution, there will be less greenhouse gas emissions and climate problems, and there will be, for example, reduced traffic accidents. The construction of tunnels, bridges and roads dominates today's map in Stortinget. Forwards won't be like this. Our new government is simply foresight and sees the need for collective investment, not least on urban railways, in Bergen and in other cities. The mountains show an absolute way for more reason in future transport policy. That's great. Let me stop saying to the cities that are working on collective services and the urban railway project: See what's happening in Stockholm! Can there be anything for Norwegian cities as well? There is a massive pressure to increase the collective share of travellers, and one has introduced a rush-time charge to get fewer cars into the city. The result so far is uplifting, not least business is happy. The car party should be aware of that, that this also promotes the interests of the business community. So the question is now: should other cities follow up on what a do in Stockholm? There even arranges referendums to ask if people in Stockholm want this. There must be a model for us in Norway too. And maybe those who are concerned about popular reconciliation should just choose the Swedish model to try things out, and not prejudiced in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e355	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e358	That's two things. I think the representative Langeland said something like that both Bergen shows the way and the city track shows the way. Which way is it shown with a collective measure of DKK 1.8 billion that does not have a demonstrable effect, other than moving passengers who are already travelling by bus to a new track – with a price tag of DKK 1.8 billion? Which way is it to show, when all the other neighborhoods are in a collective shadow because of this? So to this with a referendum. We in the Progress Party believe that it is more appropriate and important to ask people in advance, before spending half a billion kroner – and perhaps more than that – on building a collective system with which you may have problems afterwards, rather than asking the question when the money is spent.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e365	Here some of the differences are reasonably clear, based on the question from the representative of Sortevik. It is clear that if a road is just thinking, any new collective action will destroy the car, not stimulate it for reduced use. What you're trying to do in Bergen is simply come to meet those who are being plagued by noise and air pollution, and meet business by taking traffic away from the road and taking him over on the track. I'm surprised that the Progress Party doesn't see it either, but only sees new road projects at any given time. So for this with a referendum in Stockholm. It is just that a non-Progressionary Party should say no to anything that is not roadside, but actually try something first. One has to give people a good collective offer, which reduces noise levels and reduces air pollution, and then ask the people: Do they want what they have now tried – instead of just standing up to time and saying no, no, no to all collective solutions and yes, yes, yes to more car traffic?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e372	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e375	The Bergen programme shall respond to the urban transport and environmental challenges and clarify the main tasks over the next 15 to 20 years. At the beginning of the previous period, the size gave its connection to the main lines of the programme and to the financing facility. This time we're dealing with a proposition presented by the Bondevik government, which has not been withdrawn by the new government. The proposals in the proposal have been made because of some changes in the assumptions in relation to the Grossing-up's last treatment of the project. The proposition's proposals are based on the local and regional decisions taken in the case and are based on relatively fragile compromises. The proposal includes proposals for the development and financing of a number of roads, public transport, pedestrian and cycle roads and environmental and road safety measures. The largest projects are the first construction steps of the Ringveg west, the city track between Nesttun and Bergen centre and the Skansen tunnel. There are three different financial assumptions compared to the previous: reduced revenues, increased costs and requirements for parallel development of the Ringveg west and the urban railway from the municipality of Bergen. These changed assumptions lead to a change in the tolling system being proposed. There will be less discounts, more toll stations, payment of all days and extension of the toll period by four years. The Progress Party has put forward proposals for a referendum. The private proposal of the Progress Party is that the Government should organise a binding referendum on the development of urban railways because the project has ‘so extensive implications for the inhabitants of Bergen’. I just have to ask: do not the other projects also have significant consequences for the people of Bergen? Why is it just the collective share of the programme and the use of tolls on the urban track that the Progress Party is so concerned about? The question of what alternative the Progress Party has to finance the part that is planned to be financed by tolls, I am not going to tear up here. Others have been involved. Nor shall I address the fundamental and formal challenges that the Progress Party is creating with this private proposal. I just want to make sure that it is up to the local authorities if the municipality will hold a local referendum, and if the city council wants to be politically bound by the majority. This is not the government's business. It is not the cause of the Storting. The Christian People's Party therefore proposes that the proposal be rejected. Today, as in 2002, the Christian People's Party is saying yes to the Bergen programme and thus also to increased prosperity and a better environment in Bergen. The last time the programme was debated as a matter of its own in this Chamber, the Christian People's Party stressed that the development of better public transport involves a trend break, where public transport will take a greater share of traffic growth and thus contribute to reducing the problems caused by increased traffic expected on the Bergen road network. We pointed out that the objectives are to reduce the growth of car traffic, increase the proportion of public passengers, improve the environment and road safety and reduce transport costs for commercial traffic. And we pointed out that these objectives of the Bergen programme are well in line with the priorities of the Storing Communication Better public transport, which we also addressed in the previous period. Public transport is referred to as the backbone of the transport system in the large cities. Now it is said that in the Christian People's Party we also see that there is still a need to increase the capacity of the road network in and around the city. That's why we're on the Ringveg west and the Skansen tunnel, and we view this as important pieces in the whole. And we're not going to forget the part that concerns the establishment of a continuous walking and cycling road network to and from the city. It's a central part of the program itself. Finally, I would like to stress what the majority has said about the operational responsibility of the urban railway: Bergen has unequivocally assumed the operational responsibility of the urban railway in the time ahead, after it has come into operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e392	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e395	As former participants in the debate have expressed quite clearly, the Bergen programme is the result of a political compromise. It has been stressed because the compromise will solve the future challenges for Bergen. My question to the representative Sahl is: what is the Christian People's Party that has got out of this compromise, and what is the Christian People's Party that has had to sell in this compromise? On my second question, I would like to refer to page 4 of the vote, where the majority, which is also part of the Christian People's Party, writes that the majority will encourage the municipality of Bergen to give priority to the development in relation to the removal of the food bus system 'if it turns out that the economy of the Bergen programme is changing in a positive direction'. My question is, does the majority now know that the Bergen programme will initially give a negative result?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e406	What has the Christian People's Party got out of the compromise? We have achieved a comprehensive solution for urban traffic in Bergen, and we have not least won a victory, in my opinion, for the environment, which we would not have done if the Progress Party had got through its proposal to keep the buses going on the road systems in Bergen. A question was asked earlier about exactly this, and one advantage here is at least that the city railway will remove a good part of the buses that are currently going on the same route into town. When it comes to the forecasts of how it's going to go financially, we're dealing with what the government has put forward. We trust the predictions that lie there. If it goes better than that, we want that money to be used to improve public transport in Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e413	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e416	I will also first join everyone who congratulates Bergen – and then I am talking not only about the mountain politicians, but also about the citizens of Bergen – with the decision that is being made today. I think it represents a new course for an exciting urban development in Bergen, to the delight of all. The view of the left in this case is, of course, reflected in today's position, but it is also reflected in the propositions underlying this decision, promoted in the previous period of the previous government and Left's then Minister of Transport Torild Skogsholm. So the left is, to the most extent, a part of this which is referred to here as a compromise. I would like to express that to me ‘compromise’ is a positive word. I have followed the portrait of Thorvald Stoltenberg on TV, and on the introduction of it, where he just raised the compromise as an underestimated size in politics. And I would like to help say that for me this is a very positive word. There are often good balances between different considerations. It's like this complicated world that it's rarely black-and-white. It's the good balance sheets that often represent the good solutions. It is in itself not unnatural for a centre politician to say this, but the compromise I think is necessary. And this is an example of such a good compromise, the compromise between road and road. I don't think it's possible to solve the challenges of the future by building roads and driving cars through the city, just as little as we can do with track alone. The well-known driver Pehr G. Gyllenhammar, the Volvo boss, the Nordic and the popularist once said that to him as a carman it was sad that someone had found this to bring the car and the combustion engine into the city centers. It is designed to go and to carry people where it is possible to drive and not stand still. He at least expressed something important, I think, that for us who think the car is important and necessary for the transport of people, it is also important to save the central city cores for too much car growth. The compromise today, the Bergen programme, seems to me to facilitate a very good compromise between the city and the track. The car is not allowed to enter the city center to the same extent as before, while improving the environmentally friendly transport in the city core itself. In today's debate, the Progress Party has a different view, which in itself is a good thing to say. Many people have the position that the car should have its roads, and nothing else. But I'm somewhat surprised at the vocabulary and power of the resistance to the urban path from the proponents of the Progress Party. When I sit here in the Chamber, the debate reminds me a little about the debate that took place here over 100 years ago – which I have read through – when another track was to be adopted, namely the track to Bergen City, Bergensbanen. There was enormous opposition to what became the losing minority, to how meaningless this was, to how hopeless it was, to how it was against the citizens, and to how a referendum would stop it. It's basically a parallel to the word used at the time. I think it's a point to draw it out in a day like this, because it was probably an even bolder project – an entire state budget in one decision to build the path to the city, and it was a very scarce majority. But what was required was probably not populism at all, but it was political leadership – drying to see a new way of thinking about transport, drying to take risks, and that by a very scarce majority. Now there's not so much risk of using an entire state budget in one project here today, but there's nevertheless a new way to think about the use of orbit that I think is forward-looking, and that's just calling for political leadership that a large and broad majority will take advantage of when voting comes later today. I also think it must be allowed for me to express that, as part of this great compromise between road and track in Bergen, has been an important matter for the Left locally over many years. The left, along with many others, has fought in local politics to achieve this, and it is therefore a joy to see that many years of political work is bearing fruit in this way. When I say that, I'm not saying it to take credit for this, because I know that's the basis for sharing it with many other capable politicians and parties. But I still think it is important to find out that the long-term work that starts locally and goes over many years can be crowned with as good results as we achieve today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e433	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e437	Let me first say that the big words have not yet been used in the debate. To the representative of Sponheim, I must be allowed to say that in relation to his historical comparisons, at least the state does not have any risk in this matter when it only stands for 10 pst. of the urban railway. So that comparison might not be that relevant. But I also want to challenge the representative Sponheim, because the representative Sahl answered me in the previous line was interesting. The representative Sahl said we're getting reduced bus frequency through the city track. Now it is the case that the Progress Party has at least called for an answer to this question. There has also been a certain form of correspondence, which has been withdrawn in some way, which has asked questions about the food bus system, because no one has clearly said from, or documented, whether there will be any less bus transport for the public travellers in Bergen with this urban railway. I would like to challenge the representative Sponheim: does the Left now know more about the consequences of the urban railway and the food bus system than the Committee knows?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e446	Let me first say that I think the comparison is real in the sense that when the decision on the Bergensbanen was made, there was a really big risk – it was a scarce majority, and it was a daring thing to dry out on this. Thus, there was a certain basis for using such powerful words against what the opponents did, and as among other things. The representative, Mr Sortevik, has used the debate today. That is, in my view, a lot less basis for it today, even though you are against the urban railway project itself. It also belongs on a snowy day like this that the winter Bergensbanen was running, snowing it down, and the minority sat and laughed in this hall. I don't think they've done that in the hundred years after. So to the question. The city track is on its own. I believe that it will be a sensible economic project. I think it can also be better than what we've thought, not worse as the Progress Party expresses, and it has to get some implications. But I also believe in the dynamics of a new way of using and thinking collectively, and a further expansion of an urban railway network in Bergen that is going to be important.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e453	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e456	The Proposition of the Bergen Programme was made by the government of Bondevik II, and is maintained by the government of Stoltenberg II. The Bergen programme for transport, urban development and the environment shall respond to Bergen’s transport and environmental challenges and clarify the most important tasks over the next 15 to 20 years. I am therefore pleased that the Committee has joined the proposal for a revised toll scheme for the Bergen programme. By Way of running St. Prp. No 76 for 2001-2002, cf. Inner. S. No 45 for 2002-2003, the previous Stortinget endorsed the main lines of the Bergen programme for transport, urban development and the environment and the profile of the financing facility. The project package contains a range of larger and smaller measures within the area of road — including pedestrian and cycle roads — public transport, environmental and traffic security measures and measures in the Bergen Centre. The largest projects in the Bergen programme are the first stage of Ringveg west, the first stage of construction of the city railway between Nesttun and Bergen centre with high-frequency food bus facilities and environmental measures at the Skansen tunnel. It's added up to parallel development of the first two, which are both large and cost-intensive. Only when a full overview of cost development and revenue development from toll collection can the time for the start of the Skansen tunnel be evaluated. It is now advisable to modify the toll scheme for the Bergen programme as a result of changes in income and cost estimates. The changes are to extend the collection scheme to all days, reducing the maximum discount from 50 pst. until 40 p.m., establish five new tolling stations and extend the collection period by four years until the end of 2015. In addition, there will be borrowings to build the Ringway west and the city track parallel. The Bergen programme shall be financed by both municipal, county and state funds, as well as funds from toll collection. The control frame for the West Ring Road is 1080 million. EUR 2005 and for the city track of SEK 1 640 million. kr. The preliminary estimate for the Skansen tunnel is approximately 440 million. kr. The so-called urgent projects have a total cost framework of about 200 million. kr. The revised funding plan for the Bergen Programme provides an investment framework of approximately DKK 3.4 billion over the period 2006-2009, including approximately DKK 2.5 billion in tolls. Relationships with the operational responsibilities of the city railway could be better clarified and clarified before the case was sent to the Storting of the previous government. When the government of today chose not to draw the bill, I am pleased that the management in Stortinget has contributed to the necessary clarifications. It follows from the proposition that the municipality of Bergen has voluntarily assumed the operational responsibility of the city railway. I have also discussed the question directly with the municipality of Bergen and the municipality of Hordaland, which gave some clarifications. As I see it, Bergen and Hordaland have agreed that whoever is responsible for public transport in Bergen, whether it is the municipality of Bergen or the municipality of Hordaland, is responsible for the operation of the city railway. I point out that the majority of the committee has concluded that the operational responsibility, which Bergen bears, covers both infrastructure, material and operational support. In addition, operational responsibilities also include a high frequency matebus facility. I also show that the majority of the Committee has concluded that funding must be made within the overall financial framework of the municipality of Bergen, including the current framework transfer from the state to the municipal sector, but not limited to it. Such an understanding was decisive for the ministry and now for Stortingen's connection to the case. I see the city railway as a forward-looking and environmentally friendly project for a better traffic management in Bergen City. It is decisive that the municipality of Bergen now facilitates the relationship around the project, so that one achieves the impact of the collective provision that people in the region are represented. The next phase is retail design, contract conclusion and construction period. It will take a few years before the course is realized, and in that period, the challenge is to channel all the engagement around the Bergen Program, and especially the city track, towards a solution that most likely sees itself on fire, and that the city can be proud of. I find reason to join the congratulations, who want Bergen to close with a forward-looking project, a project that has been through three operations in the city council, and which is seen as well local democratically anchored in Bergen city. I want to come back to Document No. 8:2 for 2005–2006 on binding public display in the municipality of Bergen in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e479	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e482	We are very concerned about the quality assurance of the urban railway project in the Bergen programme. One thing I want to ask the Council of State is which process you have chosen. What we have been told through questions is that we leave the main responsibility for the quality assurance of the urban railway part to the builder, which is the municipality of Bergen. For other projects we know, even from Hordaland, a completely different solution has been chosen. We've got a project coming up on the Jondal Tunnel, and there's the county council builder. The State itself has assumed responsibility for the quality assurance. Why this difference? In the last answer we received from the Council of State, a letter dated 14 February, it says: ‘A final arrangement for the operation of the feeding bus system is not yet in place.’ How can satisfactory quality assurance have been carried out for a project that has not been completed?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e494	The quality assurance of the urban railway is made in the direction of the municipality of Bergen. On behalf of the Ministry of Transport, an independent assessment of the operating costs of the urban railway in Bergen has been carried out in retrospect. It was the previous government that was responsible for the presentation of the proposition. We did not find any reason to go in and change the terms of the previous government's management of quality assurance. There's a slightly changed handling of the Jondal tunnel, which we're going to come back to when that project is going to be handled. It is true that the Ministry of Finance has provided information on quality assurance that has not been fully implemented in the transport sector. This government is going to do this, and that's the background for a change in the handling of the Jondal tunnel relative to the things we're currently handling. In the case of a food bus, Bergen municipality is responsible for ensuring a satisfactory food bus service. Bergen's responsibility lies with the municipality. There's a lead for it in the proposition, and it's still working on it. I believe that the web is equally distributed. I am absolutely sure that the municipality of Bergen will come up with a satisfactory food bus service for this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e505	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e508	The decision we are about to take today is key to the solutions to the main transport policy challenges in Bergen. While there is a tolling system to be revised, it is a revision that will provide the basis for important solutions to the urban community's transport and environmental challenges and clarify the main tasks for 15 to 20 years to come. The growth of road traffic in Bergen has created considerable pressure on the transport system, a pressure that has negative consequences in much of the central urban areas of Bergen. The solutions are not based on building more, newer and wider roads, as some suggest as a prescription to get out of the miscarriage. Such solutions will result in land waste, and this will mean a deterioration in the environmental and air quality of Bergen. The main challenges on the transport side in Bergen are to reverse the trend in traffic growth in the establishment of a modern and competitive collective system with higher capacity and greater capacity reserves than current bus transport. After all, the aim must be to allow public transport to take on greater market share in relation to private cars as a whole and to transfer as much as possible of the expected traffic growth to collective transport solutions. It is also important to point out that through previous treatments the Stortinget has given its support to the main lines of the Bergen programme. The mountain program does not contain, as some people obviously believe, only the urban runway solution. The Bergen programme also addresses other collective challenges, environmental improvements, walking and cycling trails, etc. But the biggest projects are the first construction steps of the Ringveg west, the urban railway and not least the environmental project Skansen Tunnel. This project is primarily aimed at relieving the centre of car traffic, mainly in the important historical part of the city, with the world's cultural memories, Bryggen and Torget, as the foremost. Many have strong opinions about the urban railway project. This is the case in a city with rich traditions in terms of high social exposure. Very many people want to have a word with them when something is going to change, or important new things are to be realized in the city between the seven mountains. Debate and commitment are important prerequisites for democracy, but it is also important to make decisions that help solve the issues. In this case, I believe that the municipal and county municipal treatment of the Bergen programme and the solutions outlined are well anchored in a good and secure democratic process. It has been working on the matter for a long time. All relationships have been known. People have been able to express their opinion through three municipal elections. Therefore, it seems quite strange that the representative Arne Sortevik, in one of his many speeches in the press against the urban runway solution, describes the majority position of the urban runway as an attack on mountain people. If such strong expressions are to be used, it must also be Blackevik and his party traps that are responsible for such an infringement when the Progress Party will not contribute environmentally friendly solutions such as: can contribute to the reduction of strong air pollution, which makes life very difficult for asthmatics and others in Bergensdalen. When the Progress Party refers to our local elected bodies and their decisions against referendum, it would almost be thought that the city council in Bergen and the county council in Hordaland are occupied by military authorities. Of course it's not like that. The parties behind the Bergen programme have a significant majority behind them in the population. A collective solution based on a rail system will have a major impact on future collective systems in Bergen. This is also reflected in one of the premises set out in the 2006 Community Budget Agreement for the municipality of Bergen, where the following wording was strongly endorsed: ‘The City Council’s vision is that the urban runway should be the backbone of the city’s future collective system. [[...]] A built-in urban railway system could include the urban path to the south and north [[Loddefjord]] [[Axis]] As I interpret it, there is little doubt that the city railway will be an enrichment for Bergen. It'll be a complete system. We're not just talking about a path from the center to Nesttun, as it's sometimes argued with. The many proposals of the Progress Party do not address Bergen’s traffic problems, either in the short or longer term. The proposals of the Progress Party mean that important decisions to address the right solutions in Bergen are being postponed for many years. It is also difficult to trust the Progress Party when they have suddenly become so willing to give priority to public transport. There is no need to go back further than to the treatment of the State budget for 2006, when the Progress Party, in its comments in the position of the Transport Committee under the heading ‘Specific grants for public transport’, stated: ‘The party considers that the reward scheme for better public transport and less car use in major cities is highly overfocused and that the increase in this item is disproportionate. Alternatively, incentives for better accessibility, environment and health in large cities can be achieved by making better use of these funds for necessary maintenance and investment in new roads in the main urban areas.» It is part of the story that those who have tried such solutions have never succeeded. I mentioned at the outset that today's decision for the future will be the key to solving Bergen's many environmental and transport challenges. There is therefore reason to pay tribute to the work done by the Transport Committee in this position. In general, the Committee has focused on the municipal and county decisions taken. There is also reason to commend the Hearing Committee and the way it was implemented when the Transport and Communications Committee visited Bergen last January. Furthermore, there is also reason to pay tribute to both the current and the former Minister for Transport for the work done on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e554	President, I must be allowed to say thank you for the last time, if it is parliamentary right to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e560	It is always parliamentary to be polite.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e563	It is interesting to note that at least the last speaker gave some credit to the Progress Party for the process around the Bergen programme, and that the Progress Party has taken the initiative to clarify this matter in all possible ways through the visit of the Committee in Bergen. We appreciate that. At the same time, this is a little paradox. The last speaker stated that he was skeptical of the proposal of the Progress Party to want to bet on alternative public transport in Bergen, while former speakers today, including the case rapporteur, have criticised the Progress Party for lack of initiative and focus on public transport. So it's clear that there's not a complete connection with the majority that now wants the Bergen programme adopted. Through our proposals, we show that we are taking the challenges in Bergen seriously. So the Progress Party is still very sceptical about the solution that's on the table here, because there's no extended collective offer in Bergen with the city track. There is no evidence to show that with the construction of the city railway there will be a wider offer to the collective travellers in Bergen. The result could be the opposite. The existing project will require the construction of an urban railway with a comprehensive supply of food busses. Then my question will be: will the collective travellers in Bergen choose a food bus line to then go over to a city track to get into the center of Bergen, which will probably take longer and more resources than if you took the bus directly into the Bergen centre? I still allow myself to be very sceptical about the decisions that are being made today. Moving the public travellers is not in line with the wishes behind the Bergen programme. Mr Wickholm referred to other European cities which are comparable to Bergen. I would like to ask which cities Mr Wickholm can refer to are comparable to building an urban railway in the same way that they do in Bergen. I don't have that knowledge, and I'd like to share it, if possible. I have also been told through the replies here today that it is very likely that with the decisions taken here today in relation to the Bergen programme, other parts of Bergen will be reduced and perhaps lost their collective offer, because it is clear that responsibility for operating within the relevant collective frameworks has been fully added to the municipality of Bergen. If the urban runway is running short, as the majority themselves indicate that it is very likely, this deficit will have to be eaten by the remaining collective offer in Bergen. We must also try to defend ourselves in such debates. It is clear that there will be a little wrong focus when the Progress Party gets criticism for not joining, and that the main focus will be on us in this kind of debate – we like that, of course. Some point out that the Progress Party does not have financial plans or arrangements. Of course we do. Today's proposal from the Progress Party shows that. Our alternative state budget shows it. Our input into the national transport plan shows it. And today's VG shows that the Progress Party has coverage for its financial plans in relation to infrastructure in Norway. NOK 265 billion is now expected in revenue from the oil. The oil fund is going through $1,500 billion. It should not be necessary – and I allow myself to say so – to make that kind of attack on the inhabitants of Bergen or elsewhere by imposing additional costs on them in relation to infrastructure. Then I hear that someone says, and I notice with interest, that it's an offense to listen to people in Bergen. It was actually a representative who said it was arrogant of the Progress Party not to listen to the voters of other parties. That's what we're doing! When we want a referendum, we will listen to the voters of the Workers' Party, to SV, to the Center Party, to the Christian People's Party and to the Right. The arrogance is that no one will listen to all these voters, even though it is said that the municipality of Bergen has decided that the city railway is the future solution for the municipality of Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e580	Today’s decision on the Bergen programme is a major factor in the development of the Bergens region and a prerequisite for responsible and sensible organisation of car traffic and public transport in the urban environment of the future. The Bergen programme is a result of long-term local work, with broad political compromises and willingness to achieve results. The right, together with the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party, has been a main architect behind the Bergen programme over three urban governance periods and has taken responsibility for this in position as well as in opposition. Politically, the Bergen programme has demanding elements in itself, with significant toll collection and an urban railway project being debated extensively locally. The right has had the same position on this throughout the treatment process, namely that it is a clear political responsibility to provide good transport infrastructure in the Bergens region. Right cannot accept a policy that is really about creating cork, chaos and queue in the second largest city in the country. The right will never fall to a political level where the main activity will be to protest for all the world, but still follow the path. The right cannot accept that the travel system in the south and west parts of the city is collapsing, that the cultural-historical monument Bryggen is not protected from destructive car traffic, and that there is no basis for the foreign population in the centre behind the visions of the Bergen programme. Therefore, the Right takes responsibility and is part of the Bergen programme, even though it is politically demanding. The Bergens region is developing rapidly. The city is closer to the surrounding municipalities as the infrastructure is expanded. Towards Os, Sotra, Askøy, Nordhordland, Osterøy and Hardanger–Voss the region is building increasingly better roads and transport channels. The regions merge into one housing and work area. Here we experience strong dynamism and good growth, increasing value creation, increasing employment and growing well-being, both in public and private terms. In such a dynamic region, the infrastructure is central. The mountain, as the nucleus of this growing region, must function well. In this context, the implementation of the Bergen programme is a key element in the development of the whole of the Bergens region. The first stage of construction in the Ringveg west will provide a four-field highway of 1 mile. The ring road west literally makes way in the well-being of a part of the city that suffers from increasing traffic problems. The Kokstad-Sandsli area has been developed over the past decades without associated infrastructure expansion. This will now be solved several years in overtime. The situation in the district makes it imperative to find a good solution. The city railway is the collective element of the Bergen programme. The path will undoubtedly be an exciting urban development project and a good offer for those who need public transport between the centre and the Nesttun-Fana area. It will be exciting and interesting to see how a new railing offer in a Norwegian urban environment is received by the users. The involvement in the debate on the project suggests, at least, that marketing is not becoming a major need. At local level, the right had a different starting point for its collective alternative and another preferred urban trajectory. In order to ensure a sustainable policy basis for the entire Bergen programme, and thus responsible infrastructure development in the region, we have accepted that the primary solution is not being chosen. There is also a clear majority of urban governance in the current period that is behind the choice of urban railway as a collective part of the Bergen programme, and the urban railway was a key element in the 2003 election campaign. It makes me think that the demand from the Progress Party that the Storting should now adopt a local referendum becomes very strange. The municipality of Bergen is given the formal and real responsibility to run the city track, as is the other collective offer in Bergen. The various collective offerings will be given priority locally, based on the policy decisions taken by the City Council. It is also obvious that the collective provision in the big cities is part of our national collective provision, and that a major urban effort is part of this. The scan tunnel often comes a little bit in the shadow of the two biggest projects in the program. However, the Skansen Tunnel is crucial for the development of Bergen’s most distinctive urban areas and trademarks: Square and Bryggen. This is as much an environmental measure as an ordinary road project. I would like to stress strongly Right involvement in the fastest possible realization of the Skansen Tunnel. The tunnel gives the Bryggen area a future as a unique cultural memory, and the entire centre core provides better development opportunities without heavy transit traffic. Over several urban governance periods, mountain politicians have reason to be proud of the decision taken today. The long-term nature of this, with a process that has gone over three periods, shows the need for politicians to assume their responsibilities as elected representatives. The mountain program is brave, it's visionary, and that's absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e603	The mountains have growth pain. Increasing population and wealth are on the verge of reconstructing the city’s trajectory. In the same way that the body works badly with tight veins, a city will also do it. A common approach to treating dense veins is de-blocking and bypass operations. But if a few permanent effects of these interventions are to be achieved, one must also change the way of life. You need to get a sundry diet and more trim. Bergenprogram is a program of a sunny city. By building a new route, a block of dense passages is built around obstacles. But history has shown that one cannot build itself out of traffic problems just by giving space to more cars. Without other measures, in the event of additional growth in car traffic, the years will close again. Therefore, other measures are also needed. In Bergen, as in other cities, more people must travel collectively if one is to get a lasting solution to the problem. Lifestyles must be changed. As everyone knows, putting the lifestyle around is easier said than done. Should the conversion be closed, something must be done with the offer. The construction of the city track is decisive to be closed by making more people travel collectively in Bergen. What's positive about the Bergen program is that one looks at the whole thing. Instead of patching on a road here and a road there, analyzing the state has carefully, making the diagnosis and suggested measures. The mountain program has a forward-looking perspective. Today's decisions mean that the Storting not only says yes to putting the spade in the earth, but also a set of points for a very long and thorough political process. It's the politicians in Bergen who have run this case. One saw that the problems came, and one suggested measures. The politicians in Bergen have done their job. Now we have to do our job here in the hall by agreeing to this arrangement. This is the final proof that the lot has chosen the wrong name. There's simply nothing forward-looking about the Progress Party's arrangement today. The party's proposals for progress would not make any progress for the city of Bergen. While the other parties in Bergen have taken the challenge seriously, get together and find a solution, the Progress Party has set itself on the sidebar. Few things have had a deeper democratic process than the Bergen programme. A wide range of pluralities in Bergen’s city government have taken note of the Bergen program, and the process has been so extensive and thorough that three entire city authorities have been involved. If the Storting had today given its support to the Progress Party's proposal to set this whole process aside, it would be an attack on local democracy and on the voters in Bergen. I'm glad one gets a parallel expansion of the city track and the Ringveg west. But it is also important that we start building the Skansen tunnel as soon as possible. It is this project that will perhaps largely change Bergen's face from outside. Just as Oslo changed its total character when the cars were removed from the town square, Bergen will become an even better city when the cars are about to leave Torget and Bryggen. When in a few years I'm going to take the city track to the center of Bergen, toss around on the car-free bridge before I see myself in the square, perhaps with something leaking in the glass, then I'll do it with joy in my mind, and be happy that I agreed to take the decisions that the Storting will take today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e626	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e629	It's a pleasure for me today to be part of adopting the Bergen programme and the city track. The city track has been a battle cause for the Left Local and National for a long time. Now we can finally decide that Bergen has a modern and forward-looking railing collective system. The city course is definitely the crown of the work in the collective action of the Left in the previous period. The Bergen language board and the city railway will respond to Bergen's transport and environmental challenges in the coming years. Bergen experiences a strong traffic growth. This growth has created considerable pressure on the transport system. The main transport and environmental challenge in Bergen will be to reverse this trend by establishing competitive public transport services with higher capacity than in current bus services. The aim is to increase the market share of public transport in relation to private cars in total and to transfer as much as possible of the expected traffic growth to collective solutions. Now the local authorities, local businesses and the mountains themselves have a responsibility to contribute to the success of the urban railway. Unique opportunities will be offered along the urban trajectory, not least in view of the fact that a new higher education building and several enterprises are planned along the line. The Transport and Communications Committee was in Dublin last week. Last year, the city track LUAS opened, which means speed, and you were enormously proud of this new environmentally friendly offer. It is absolutely necessary to create good alternatives to achieve ambitious targets for mobility, air quality and noise reduction. Better and more modern public transport, such as the urban rail system, is essential for future transport growth not to be achieved by car. The left will continue to give consistent priority to the use of collective solutions in metropolitan areas over road projects that increase traffic. We will focus on environmentally friendly urban transport with reduced car dependence and increased efforts on public transport. Finally. It is a joyous day for Bergen, who now gets a modern, environmentally friendly and railing city track. Any big city with respect for itself should have track-based trajectory solutions. Now Bergen can rightly call himself a big city.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e644	The Bergen programme is anchored through three urban governance periods, and there are few cases – if any – that have been treated as thoroughly as the Bergen programme. That's why I think it's strange that the Progress Party is talking about it's an assault on the city's population not to have a referendum. The Bergen programme is a compromise – where the Centre Party is and has always been – a broad political compromise to ensure the emergence of road users, pedestrians, cyclists and not least public travellers through the construction of the urban railway. At the same time, the Bergen program acknowledges that it is not possible to build more roads and believe that the automobile queues will disappear in the cities. If we don't facilitate an upward collective system, the environmental impact in Bergen will make the city indestructible and – I say – healthier than it is today, in periods. We who are more mountainous are proud of our city. We want the city to be a good place to live, and then private cars have to be reduced and public transport has to increase. Foreseen politicians in Åsane rule of lordship, i.e. before the municipal merger, would allocate the area to the railing trasé from Hesthaugen and into Bergen. There were also some politicians in Bergen City Council who talked about the city track from the north and into Bergen long before others did, and many laughed at them. So today, you decide to build the city track in the south lane. All the time, we're kind of a little bit behind schedule. I hope that the construction of the city railway doesn't become a dot, as Akselsen said instead, that we don't set a dot today, but that this can actually be a start on a larger urban railway network in Bergen, which goes both northward and westward, and then we're so lucky to have an eastward to Arna. So just one thing: to believe that it is possible to operate an upward collective system in some city in Europe without large government grants, that's utopian thinking. The centre party will be investing in public transport and urban operation, and then we'll bet on more road construction around the districts. [[President clubs]] [[The President clubs.]] So we need a little bit of different tools, depending on where we are.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e657	The President is in the liberal corner today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e660	For many years, the majority of Bergens politicians responded to traffic congestion by building more roads. The result of many years of unilateral efforts to facilitate car traffic has been an increase in car traffic and a similar sharp deterioration in public transport – contrary to the development of cities of the size of Bergen, which have been very successful in railing. The result in Bergen has been suffocational testing at the Bergen Centre and air pollution at the Bergensdalen. It is serious when 140 mountainers die prematurely because of air pollution. In cold and clear days it has been so bad that people with airway problems have been told to stay indoors. Several times my old mother and I had to stop our walk down to the center because she had breathing problems on such days. When Stortinget again confirms the Bergen programme and now revises the basis, it means that the trend can and will be reversed. That means that all the mothers and fathers of the city course from several parties, all the alliance partners and proponents and all of us who have repeatedly gone on trains under the slogan ‘Bybane now!’ can collect a victory. But not least, this is a victory for the urban environment in Bergen, a more pleasant center and better reachability for people. A path will be a modern – and more correct – solution to the cork problems of Bergens traffic and to reduce the environmental impact in Bergen. It's been meaning since the 1970s, when the city track proposal from Åsane to the centre was up. It is primarily the city track that has had SV's support in the Bergen programme. We warned against building Ringveg west, building Ringveg west first. The time for rematch from our side is over, not least because it is now being added up to parallel expansion of the city track and Ringveg west. We feel the need to extend the spine to a modern collective system in Bergen, and we are pleased that a large majority point out that an extension from Nesttun to Lagunen/Rådal will improve the economy of the urban railway. SV won't stop there. SV's target is the orbit in all directions in the sky. An urban railway network will work optimally when it also goes in the direction of North Hordland, Sotra, Os, Füllingsdalen and Haukeland. The continuation and planning of such an urban railway network should take place in conjunction with the NSB. This is the first construction step, and we warmly welcome it. Then Bergen and Bergens are facing some challenges now. Disbursed bridges like Nordhordlandsbrua and soon Ashøybrua will increase the pressure on Bergen and create a new cork on the roads. Then the answer is an integrated collective offer with track, bus and boat. There's been a so-called stripper abate. It must be maintained, but there must also be a rush-time differentiation, where the additional funds that come in need to improve the overall level of collective provision, as has been done with great success in Stockholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e673	I am pleased that the majority in the Committee recommends that the proposal for a binding referendum on the construction of the urban railway should be rejected, and will make some comments. Kommunelova is based on the principle that the inhabitants are represented by the local government and other elected bodies. The local authority may not waive a statutory obligation to take decisions on behalf of the municipality. The City Council cannot decide that a case shall be decided in a public hearing without a legal basis. On the other hand, the use of local public advisory services has been seen to be in the hands of local authorities. As the Committee points out, for many local representatives, it can be politically very difficult to oppose the advice given in an advisory public hearing and, in this way, it would be an infringement of local self-government to oblige a municipality to hold a referendum. It is clear from this that the government cannot hold or ask the municipality of Bergen to hold a binding referendum. The Ministry of Transport would also have no role in any advisory public opinion. If there is a project where the choosers can report their opinion, this is the case. Three choices have one where one could choose a game that wouldn't have the city course. That's what I call local democracy. The Bergen programme is a result of good political craftsmanship in Bergen, and it is in good democratic tradition that the Stortinget supports the local and regional decisions made. As far as progress in the various projects is concerned, the local political agreement on the development of the Ringveg West and the Urban Railways projects is parallel, and this has been established by the Ministry of Transport under the given regulations. As I have done well in a letter of 18 January 2006 to the Progress Party's biggest group, the Ringveg West project and the city track did not come as far in the preparation of the plant start. Optimal economic resolution, flat-rate clearance and rational plant operation are envisaged which must control the progress of each installation, including the time of start of the plant. When a start-up decision has been made, I believe that these concerns may lead to the project progress being made independently of each other. – This comment in relation to that also in Document No. The 8 proposal has put in a state advance statement to ensure the progress of the other project areas within the Bergen programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e686	The Bergens have reason to be annoyed. There is a clear and strong growing desire to decide for yourself in the case of tolls, and in the case of such an important choice as the collective system to be used for the next 15 to 20 years, but this is not allowed to be expressed on its own. Some have used the expression ‘wonderful’ about a wish for a referendum. The party of progress considers this to be important, and therefore there is reason to regret that such a wish does not come about in the Stortinget. So to some of that state council in its post was just inside, and we're pleased with it. It is that the political requirement for parallel development, which then provides additional costs and additional toll costs for toll payers, now resolves the state council, and well, because there are only political reasons that make it possible to impose a prerequisite for parallel development. There is a political premise that leads to extra costs, as is well documented in the proposition. We are pleased that the Council of State has a more sensible and pragmatic and, not least, a more economically sound view of this. We build when we're ready to build, and that is, Ringveg west will come out. So until nobody talks about it, the transport challenges in the Bergens region. It's not traffic to and from the center. In fact, the professional authority to which we are dealing, namely the Road Directorate/State Road Service, has confirmed at the hearing that the transport challenge in the next 15-20 years is not traffic to and from the centre. It's too long stagnant. The traffic challenge is strongly increasing transit traffic through Bergen, and there is traffic between urban areas – transit traffic both north-south and west-east. We need completely different solutions than an urban runway to meet the traffic challenges. That's what we've been trying to bring with us when we've put forward our own proposal in eight points. We're still concerned about having a future-oriented collective solution, but it has to be a solution that embraces the whole city. We are committed to ensuring that a sound professional authority is responsible for the overall development of a collective solution in Bergen, and refer to the Road Directorate as such a professional authority. We also believe that it is natural that the NSB, who is an expert on carrying passengers on rails, should also be connected to such a solution for the whole city, and have pointed it out in our proposal. Not least, we don't think that's the last time we hear about the city track. We want an independent review of what the municipality of Bergen has been doing so far. We believe that there is a poor use of money on a poor solution, and we would like to take a closer look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e700	I was challenged by the Sandberg representative to mention some examples of European cities where there had been an increase in the use of public transport by rail. One example is Montpellier in France, where they used to have 30 000 travellers in the same corridor as the railing option was built, after 120,000. Another example is Strasbourg, where, in the same line before the construction of rail traffic, they had 17 000 bus passengers, after having 80000 city rail passengers. It may be that the Progress Party has not understood that Bergen is growing, and that the decisions we are making today must be able to stand for many, many decades to come. Sandberg sketches a solution where everyone should be able to take the bus into town from somewhere they live. This seems to be a mix of private carism. But I don't think the representative Sandberg has thought through what will happen when all these buses meet in the center and set off their passengers, turn and drive back. We have also heard the Progress Party talk about metrobuses in the past. This system is also based on the same food bus system as the urban runway, but has the weakness that it has a much lower capacity than the runway solution has. The NSB solution is also based on food buses, but even more food buses and longer food bus routes than on the city track, precisely because it has fewer stops on its trajectory. If you were to attract someone in the municipality of Bergen who had competence in rail traffic, this would have to be Oslo Sporveier, who has the greatest competence in light rail-going materials. The NSB does have greater competence in heavier rail-going materials. I think it's amazing what's now happening around the city track. There is a potential for 15 000 to 20000 new dwellings and 30000 new jobs along the line, and a new university of 6000 students and more than 600 teachers will benefit from the urban route. The city track is a good offer, it's effective, it gets priority in every cross, and it can go quickly and efficiently back and forth from the center. But the most important thing about what we're doing now with the city track is we're sketching a direction for Bergen, which many people here have talked about before, where you're betting on rail-going materials, etc. meeting new major transport challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e711	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[Fotation, see page 1413]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e727	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 65 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government and three lines with replies from the main speakers for each group. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e738	This is a great day for Hardanger, a brand day for Hordaland, yes, for the whole country for that matter. ‘Hast thou claw, thou shalt have cow’ – so he formulated himself a former Minister of Transport when he opened the Vallavik tunnel in his time. Then the day has come when the Storting decides that Hardangerbrua becomes the natural continuation of the tunnel, and the minister's words become true, to the joy of the people of the region and of a competitive business. The tunnel was also a toll project, which was paid down a long time ago. There's something that characterizes both of these projects, and almost all of the major projects in Hordaland for that matter. Here's local initiative, here's local companies, and here's local capital. That's how we've been able to expand many important bottlenecks in this country, where the option is often vacation trips with eternal payment and eternal disadvantage for business and population. When local and regional forces rise to the degrees in the flock and pay for the projects, as in this case, it would only be lacking if we in this room were not to say yes and – I want to add – thank you. Thank you for taking the strain financially when we do not have the power to solve the task with ordinary means as quickly as people want, so that an up-to-date business, which has the right to be competitive, gets better communications. Competitiveness is often about mobility. It is just as little satisfactory to stand in a ferry queue or to be night insulated as to stand in line on an entry path to a city. It has been a pleasure to be rapporteur on this matter, and I would like to thank the members of the Committee for the good cooperation we have had. Some of us thought that treatment time could be shorter, but that's history. Then we had also missed the amazing experience of meeting the hardenings at home in Eidfjord and Ullensvang. The Committee has stressed that the ferry link Kinsarvik – Utne – Kvandal will continue to offer a decent offer to ensure the food and population structure. It has been important for us to listen to nuanced opinions on this issue. We believe that we have set aside all sorts of concerns and concerns with the broad majority behind this remark. A relatively large part of the project shall be financed by loans. The historically low interest rates we have today give the company a unique opportunity to secure very favourable financing, historically. The Committee has focused on this issue and is confident that the company and the loan guarantor will put together an optimal loan portfolio. In the same way as this is the responsibility of the company, it is the responsibility of the operator to put aesthetic priorities and instruments at the centre of the final design of the facility, preferably an architectural contest for the design of the bridge. I know that the State Road Service has put greater and greater emphasis on this in recent years, and they will have all the honor of it. We're going to be proud of this facility for many, many decades to come, maybe for over 100 years. Hardangerbrua is going to be an example of how far we have come in the field of engineering here in the country. The Committee believes that this must be exploitable by making an unprecedented change in the course and considering this type of facility to be the attraction it actually is. The ‘Golden Gate Bridge’ of Norway is now to be built and will be longer, higher and more beautiful than the original. The Committee majority emphasises that one is familiar with the ongoing investigation work in relation to the wild reindeer's living conditions at large. Today, we are making decisions on Hardangerbrua to the joy of the people of the region. Then this plan and time will show whether we will build in the future also to the delight of the wild. However, a connection here today considers the majority of the committee to be unfortunate. With regard to the right and the majority of the committees, it has been important to stress that the collection will cease and the toll station will be closed after the project has been disbursed. It is this practice that gives toll financing the vile legitimacy it still has in this country. Should a new toll project be relevant, it must come as a wish from a local team and not as an order here from Stortinget. It is also an important principle that we should continue. There is good reason today to congratulate Hardanger and Hordaland on the bridge. Toss it with health, as the Westerners say.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e766	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e769	First, let me join in the beautiful words expressed by the case rapporteur to the Hardanger community, and thank you for the progress we finally got in this matter. The case rapporteur was also in an area related to the impact on existing ferry link Kvandal-Utne-Kinsarvik. If we look back at the previous debate, we see that all parties were very concerned with local maritime law, and that you should listen to local democracy. In Ullenswang, the local government has recently adopted a unanimous decision on requirements for the same frequency as today and modern holiday equipment as a prerequisite for support for the bridge. My question to the President-in-Office of the Council is: if there were to be a drop in traffic on the basis of the decision we are making today, then the case rapporteur will take this decision into account in Ullensvang, which is likely to cost the State between 3 and 5 million. kr per. years to maintain the same frequency and material on the ferry link?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e776	It is true that when, in a majority opinion, the committee makes such a clear clarification as we do here in relation to this holiday relationship, it is actually a little alarming. In other cases where there are similar situations, similar relationships, it is not common for the Committee to make that kind of comments. When you have chosen to use the formulations that have been used here, it's just to assure the population that that's what the Storting wants. The phrase ‘beneficial’ will serve this purpose in all ways, even regardless of whether the traffic might be bigger than today’s once in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e781	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e784	Hordaland and Hardanger need this project, a project that they've been working on for nearly 70 years. Proposals for tunnel from Granvin to Vallavik and bridge over Hardangerfjorden were first launched by Amund Bu and mentioned in the Official Journal of Bergen on 6 April 1938. I have to say that it made a certain impression on me when we were on a committee trip in Hordaland and overnight at the Ullensvang Hotel, and I got the right that Mrs. Ellen Utne, a third-generation hotel driver of the five generations that until now have operated the hotel, has been working for this project for 50 years. This makes an impression, and it shows that an unlikely person is willing and willing to stand out as one should look for a long time. When I hear that, I understand that the hardening doesn't take a no for a no. I've noticed the commitment to this project, and therefore it's a great pleasure for me to join in and say yes today. I thought it was important that the Storting should be involved and facilitate such a project. Hordaland and Hardanger take this seriously. That is what we see when we look at the financing plan for the project. They don't come to Stortingen and ask for money. No, they take the entire calculation themselves. They're basically just asking to be allowed to build the bridge. Locally in Hardanger, there was real speed in the early 1960s. As the previous speaker said, when Johan J. Jakobsen opened the Vallavik tunnel in 1985, he said: If you have a piano, you get a cow, you have a tunnel, you get a bridge. This is now in the process of being filled. Hardangerbrua AS was launched in 1987. The same year, the county council decided to start work on the main plan for the bridge, a master plan approved in 1989. And a detailed plan for the project was approved in 1992. In 2002, it was agreed to launch a new planning process, with an impact assessment approved by the Road Directorate in October 2004. The suspension bridge is designed with a main voltage of 1,310 m and a total side voltage of 70 m. Towers are 186 m tall and built in concrete. Brua gets two lanes plus a walk and a bike path. The road register is built in steel, and the free height of the track above the spring is 55 m. The bridge is led straight into the tunnel on both sides. This option causes a drop down of the large fillings of rock that were outlined at the first option. Tunnel entries are adapted to the terrain and make it all more aesthetic. In addition to the necessary road construction to link the new link to the existing vehicle, the regulatory plan provides for upgrading the current road to High Steps. Upgrading of this route and further to Brimnes is financed by means of tribal roads, racial protection funds and advance payments from the municipality of Eidfjord in the period 2006-2009. When it comes to other routes, it will work with them in other projects and road packages in the region. Brua will strengthen the region and make it a common labour market. I believe this action will help to create optimism and believe that the region has a future. Hardanger is one of the national areas for tourism and tourism. This will now be able to further develop and pay investors in relation to product development and investment in the region. I would like to comment on one of the comments from the Committee. This refers to the mention of the ferry link Kinsarvik – Utne – Kvandal. It should be a decent offer in the future as well. This ferry connection is the very lifeblood of the west side of Ullensvang, and I would like to underline the importance of this connection for the construction and business of this large part of Hardanger. Finally, I would like to stress that this project has been favourably treated in two governments, so it must certainly be in place that an aggregate growth does the same today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e801	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e804	There have been a number of cases since Stortinget first dealt with the 1996 bridge project. In addition to the fact that the representative Gicheth has been on tour in Hardanger, the bridge has become twice as expensive, and there is one billion dollars in tolls. I wonder what are the decisive arguments for the Workers' Party when you are so unequivocally positive. As far as I remember, you weren't as positive in 1996. There has been a development, but what are the important arguments for the Workers' Party when they give their full support to the project?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e809	The project has matured. It's been a long time since 1996. I was also not part of this assembly that time, so I don't want to pay for what was done then. But I think this is a forward-looking project and, as I said, a project that Hardanger needs. That's why I'm very much in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e815	It is true that this matter has been submitted by two governments, but there has been one fundamental change in the proposal of the new government, namely that it has been decided to decouple the environmental tunnels from the tolling period on the bridge. In this context, a majority of the Committee writes as follows: ‘This majority argues that any request/request for toll financing for any RV 7 tunnel over Hardanger gauge is in line with current practice and comes from local/regional governance, or from a private company established with their support for this very purpose.’ Then I wonder: Who believes you will come to get environmental tunnels at Hardangervidda and apply for toll financing? The only thing I can imagine is that the villain does it. Is that what you're thinking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e825	Nothing can be ruled out here!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e828	New arrangements are in progress. It applies both to road projects and to clean-up projects. These evaluations will be carried out in 2006 and provide a much better basis for assessing the measures. There is a commitment that proposals for possible toll financing will be made in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e833	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e836	The case concerning the construction of Hardangerbrua was dealt with in Stortinget on Monday 10 June 1996. The party voted in favour of the bridge. A majority rejected the proposal at the time. Nearly ten years later, the Stortinget is again dealing with a case concerning the construction of Hardangerbrua. Today, too, the Progress Party is voting for the bridge. This time all the lots are for the project. It says a little about the inherent power of the project, and it says a little about Westerners and horde valleyings that don't turn out. It is a persistent, long-term and not least long-term work that makes the case now to be dealt with again, and this time with a positive result. Bridge companies, individuals, municipalities in the region, Hordaland County Municipality, individual companies and business organisations have raised the project, as is often the case in the West. The progress party will continue to build Hardangerbrua. We believe the bridge has a positive socio-economic benefit. We mean the operations that give negative value to 4 pst. calculation rate, not capturing the broad and strong socio-economic benefits that the bridge will have in the transport network in the West, in Hordaland and not least in the inner Hardanger region, a region that is struggling with relocation. Together with other important transport projects – I would particularly like to point out the Jondal tunnel, which will be dealt with in the Stortinget later this year – Hardangerbrua will provide the region with an important boost. Good transport solutions are key to business and housing. It will also be Hardangerbrua. Societal economic good projects shall and should be paid by the State in the opinion of the Progress Party. That's why we want a bridge without tolls. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote. That's how the billions of oil flow into the treasury. The oil fund, which is still an oil fund, is now the largest in the world. At the same time, new toll projects are formally in line for approval in Stortinget. Too many of these projects are located in Hordaland. In the previous case, we have a fresh and deterrent example, where we have imposed an extra tax of NOK 3 billion on car users and residents in the Bergens region. So we're going to get another $1 billion. It is two major transport projects that Stortinget is dealing with today, with a total financial framework of DKK 7.5 billion. There, a total of $4 billion is collected from the population wallets. If it had been so that we were lopsided, you might understand that. But here it is that the state is rich in abundance, and then it becomes both incomprehensible and quite provocative that you have to let the users pay. In any case, it will be for the Advancement Party. The Hardangerbrua project is a good project. But the matter of the Hardangerbrua project is a bad thing. By doing so, the Progress Party believes that the matter is ill-informed and poorly investigated. In this regard, we have asked a number of questions to the ministry. We've noticed that the proposition presented contains a comprehensive review of Rv. 7 on the Hardanger range, in particular on the consequences for the wild rein tribe. We have also noted what had been put in place as a bond from the previous government on the future construction of environmental tunnels at Hardangervidda and funding through possible extended toll collection at Hardangerbrua. It is a principle to which the Progress Party is totally opposed. We are very satisfied with the clarification we have received on questions we have sent to the Council of State. I quote from the Council's reply letter of 16 January: ‘The Stoltenberg II government will not maintain the previous government’s link between the construction of Hardangerbrua and environmental tunnels on Hardangervidda, i.e. the possibility of extending the tolling period on the bridge in order to contribute to the financing of a possible tunnel solution on a wide area.’» I'll include another sentence from the answer: ‘I would like to underline, as also stated in St.prp. No 2 [[2005-2006]] We in the Progress Party are pleased that this clarification has been made, and we are pleased that the principle that if tolls are used as a source of funding, they should be used solely for the purpose of paying down a clearly defined and defined project. This principle is important to maintain in the next case, because it departs from the principle quite fundamentally. The ferry link Kvandal-Utne-Kinsarvik is not mentioned in the case, but is still strongly affected by the Hardangerbrua project. The traffic forecast assumes a significant transfer of current traffic on this link to the future bridge. We in the Progress Party stress that the ferry link has three important user groups in the region/parts of the region that still need to be maintained with a high-quality connection: tourists, wagon trains and internal traffic. In our view, none of these three user groups will have a good alternative in Hardangerbrua. We must not, in the view of the Progress Party, allow ourselves to see that improvements in transport infrastructure in one part of the region result in poorer infrastructure solutions in other parts of the same region. Therefore, it is important that the ferry link Kvandal-Utne-Kinsarvik is ensured both in a clarifying and reassuring manner through binding decisions. We believe that this was done in 1996. That was clearly mentioned in the proposal, and we believe that it is important on 28 February 2006 as well. We have taken note of the decision in Ullensvang Municipal Government – which was unanimous: ‘Wellenswang Heradstyreige requires that a satisfactory internal connection and connection be maintained Unne Kvandal even after Hardangerbrua has been realised.The Unne – Kvandal ferry connection must be maintained at the same frequency as today and with modern ferry equipment.’ The Progress Party shares that view and has tried to take care of it through both the comments and the premises of our proposal. I also want to remind you that on the Odda–Utne section of the road, a distance of 42 km, we find one of the best roads we have in Hordaland. That's 90 pst. yellow middle stripe. It's costing well over 100 million. kr on the road in the last few years. It says how important that corridor is to road users. We have also noticed that there is a great deal of uncertainty about the traffic base of the project, and that many consultants have been involved in ensuring this quality. We point out that there are several known projects that will affect traffic development, not least when toll collection on the existing Folgefonn tunnel falls away from 2016. There are also different road packages of toll financing which are on their way to treatment in this room. The one that has come most far in the same region is the Pocket Package. There we have been told by a little digging in relation to the department that the impact on traffic related to Hardangerbrua and the Vosepaket has not been assessed. We record that the quality assurance is something to be desired later on. In our view, this could have been done in a more thorough way. In the light of the clear recommendations made by the Ministry for the Project, the Contracting Party also considers that the State should cover any overruns in construction and, where appropriate, toll revenue. We believe that this is a better solution than starting with an extension of the toll period before the decision is taken, as I believe that political leadership in the department has partly made statements to the media. The Progress Party shall vote in favour of Hardangerbrua with State funding. We want to secure the ferry link Kvandal-Utne-Kinsarvik. We believe that the traffic forecasts are flawed, and we want them supplemented. But we want a bridge. We want the region to be happy with Hardangerbrua, and we think that the utility of the bridge will be noticed far beyond the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e892	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e897	One of the main reasons why the construction of Hardangerbrua is today adopted by the Storting is the high and sincere commitment of local authorities and the population of Hardanger. Such an exposure is good. The traffickers have to pay tolls for a limited period of time, but do not pay the ferry ticket forever. The progress party is opposed to tolls. The Progress Party supports the project but believes that the State should fully finance the cost of development. What does this tell you? Well, if there are enough issues with local toll initiatives for the Stortinget and the strategy of the Progress Party is followed, all control over the use of money in the transport sector in Norway will be lost. This is not the first time the economic policy of the Progress Party is called into question. My question to the representative of the Progress Party is therefore: How are representatives to prioritise toll projects coming to Stortinget? Or is it going to be free for everyone to present toll projects to the Storting and then expect the Progress Party to arrange the financing by spending money on its Norwegian sareptakkerk, i.e. the Pension Fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e904	First of all, the oil fund, which is still an oil fund, is now $1,500 billion and is among the world's largest, if not the largest, fund, to continue to be used for investment in Norway. One of the most profitable investments we can make with our own oil wealth is to expand our own road network. There are good examples in many other countries that have neither oil nor gas wealth to draw from, that they still choose to expand their infrastructure. Norway can afford to build roads. We can afford to build roads without using tolls as funding. That's the answer. Many good, important transport projects come to the Grand Duchy now, simply because the national transport plan has failed to address the needs for road development in Norway. So our answer is yes, we can invest part of our oil wealth in expanding our road network.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e913	After examination in the committee and after reading the comments, one party appears to be different. In this case, you would have thought, in the past, that it was SV, but no, it is the Progress Party. A party that normally clones and wants to build the road everywhere is what troubles the bridge the most. In the context of the NTP, the Progress Party was very impatient, and the party requested that the project be submitted to Stortinget as soon as possible. It is now felt that the Progress Party has doubts about quality assurance and traffic forecasts. Vardevik argues that the Progress Party is for the project but today supports proposals for additional issues from the Government on additional quality assurance of the traffic base. How long will the Progress Party postpone the matter? How long will the Progress Party let Hardanger wait?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e922	You have to read the proposals of the Progress Party with quite special glasses – there must be Right-glasses in this case – if you think this is a postponement. We want the bridge built. We want the bridge built with state resources. Then it is clear that we need to get a case back that confirms it and explains how this is arranged financially. Then we also have time to get answers to the many questions related to uncertainty and uncertainty about the traffic forecast. But yes, we want to build the bridge. We in the Progress Party do not see the Transport Committee as a dispatch office. This is also the case, as I tried to express in my post, that the project is good, but the matter is bad. It is ill-lit and not elucidating at some points. For this reason, there has been a need for a comprehensive exchange of letters with the Ministry, as the situation was also ten years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e929	It was a tempting release proposal that Sortevik is now saying that the Progress Party has. My question is more directed to differences between different projects. At the Bergen program, it was a matter of wanting a referendum on the urban railway problem. When it concerns Hardangerbrua, it's not about it. It's obvious that you're just running on, even if you're going to wait a few months or years, depending on what. What is the reason why a person has a different attitude to the question of public opinion about Hardangerbrua? One knows, for example. that the people of Hordaland, through BT polls of opinion, have said that they want to give priority to racial protection over larger road projects. Is it the outcome of the popular vote that means that one will not risk a referendum, or what is the reason why the Progress Party does not want a referendum in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e939	I believe that the representative Langeland was also involved in the Committee's visit to Bergen. We had a hearing on the Bergen programme, where it was made very clear that there was a strong popular commitment to a strong and clear desire for a referendum related to two important principles in that programme. We haven't recorded that there's a similar exposure here. Had it done, we would probably have listened to it, but we have not recorded that it exists. On the other hand, the Bergen programme is clear, even documented with 20,000 signatures.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e944	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e947	SV votes for Hardangerbrua, which we have been against locally, regionally and nationally throughout all years, and which most recently voted against ten years ago, when things were up in Stortinget. In the debate ten years ago, part of the explanation from the unknown, some would call him a bridge builder, former Minister of Transport Kjell Opseth if there was any reason why the party was opposed, that the traffic base was too uncertain, and not least that the environmental concerns linked to Hardangervidda were not clarified. By the way, the same foundation also had former Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland. Bondevik II, with the Left Christian People's Party and the Right, presented this matter in the election campaign, and they probably had their good reasons for it. It would probably be a selector magnet. Now Hardanger Bridge wasn't seen well enough. Sponheim and the government were thrown into that they presented this matter. So in the new, red-green government, we had to align ourselves with this thing. We could drag her, suspend her, or let the cause go. It took the new government a few months to figure out. From the SVs and my side, these months were important to find out the questions. Former State Council Opseth and Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland nominated – plus some more. We asked questions about the traffic base. We asked questions about the consequences of the error on the width – what had to be done with them, and what it might cost. We asked what the bridge would mean for the important connection between Utne and Kvandal. We asked how a new Jondal tunnel would play on the traffic base, etc. And we asked what that would mean for the tribal network that already exists. In addition, we had a number of other problem settings associated with, for example: GHG issues, Government priorities in relation to the national transport plan, where the bridge is initially not included, but where one could risk it coming in. Yes, these questions and several other questions asked us during the period that this matter was dealt with in the Government. The response from the Government was that Hardangerbrua should be built. Some of the questions SV has asked are already answered, and some have to come back. The Hardanger range and the error train shall be returned by the Government. It will be an important matter in relation to the international responsibility we have for the unique wild reindeer tribe of Hardangervidda. This could mean that road traffic agents have to be re-prioritized. But it may also mean that a new bomb needs to be installed to ensure that the wild train is preserved. On the issue of the Utne-Kvandal ferry link, the majority of the Committee calls for it to be maintained, not least for reasons of food policy. Hordaland SV says in an interview that the connection must have modern holiday equipment and ‘same departure frequency as today’. This is easy to agree on, but it's hard to be completely bastant on. As long as – to say it like that – the piano is on the west side of the fjord, while the cow is on the other side, it is difficult to have a very bastant answer to this. But there is no doubt that we from SV will follow up on what Hordaland SV has said about trying to maintain this ferry connection as it is today. The government is ready for greenhouse gas emissions to go down, and for us to have more transport from road to rail and boat. Of course, the government will follow this forward and come back to the many areas it receives, which are important, after today's decision on Hardangerbrua. SV votes for the bridge and wish to be happy with the project!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e968	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e971	A question to the representative of Langeland about the ferry link that has been discussed by many people. I noticed that the representative Langeland said that SV would try to follow up the leaders given from their own party in Hordaland County. Does the representative of Langeland think that the ferry link has been given a clear and secure formulation in what is in the majority position? And what were any obstacles, as the representative Langeland sees, that one could be clearer and, in fact, as clear as Ullensvang municipality itself has been in a unanimous position to ensure the region's security that the ferry link is well maintained in the future as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e978	Yes, SV is very for ferries both here and there. What is the case in this case is what I referred to from Hordaland SV's decision, that we want as much as possible to maintain this connection as it is today. At the same time, however, we are behind a plural remark in the committee, as the representative refers to. There is no doubt that this connection is very important, not least for the 1,400 who live on the west side of Sørfjorden. I have understood that very well, and it is therefore important for the Swedish Government to be involved and to help ensure that it is properly maintained and maintained. But it's insecurity, as I mentioned in my post. When we have a cow on Hardangerbrua and the piano in Ullensvang, this can be problematic. But SV must undoubtedly work for a strong and good connection between Utne and Kvandal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e985	Not many people had expected such a contribution from the representative of Langeland, unless we had known that SV was in government – until then we have participated in too many debates on this matter earlier. The Christian People's Party and SV have a common background here, as we have previously voted against, but now we are voting in favour. I have a question for SV, which goes one step further, at my discretion. Langeland admits that even when he says to Dagbladet, we swallow a camel in this case. It goes on with the security that was from our government, that we should build tunnels, we should also have a guarantee that we can finance this. Environmental tunnels are not within the national transport plan. There's no state funds in there right now. It was a part-financing with tolls. SV has also swallowed that camel. How, then, will someone be able to secure the purity of Hardangervidda?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e994	Fortunately, now there are no camels on Hardangervidda. One should come back to the tunnels. That's what the government has said one should do, and that's what the representative Langeland does. Therefore, one does not have the formulations of the previous government, which made this proposition strangely enough without financing these environmental tunnels. One of them is moving ahead, just like one of them is doing in another case today. The issues are linked to the previous government, where it was important to do a lot of things in the election campaign. This must be the new government going to clean up now, and it's a little silly. But there are still many camels left [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1001	The husband of a camel's hatch, as the representative of Langeland has done from this pulpit today, has hardly ever happened in this Chamber, I believe. Of course, I disagree with the representative of Langeland as to whether it was good for the country that we had a government change. But one thing I think we can agree on: if it hadn't been a government change, and the previous government had put forward a proposition on Hardangerbrua, it wouldn't have been a unanimous result today. Then SV had certainly been against Hardangerbrua. So today, Langeland is too. According to him himself it is because the Halvorsen and the Government have decided it so. All he can do is put on the funeral dress to mark his actual position. I would also like to take the opportunity to follow up Mr Sahl's line on environmental tunnels. Because I think the representative Langeland and I very much agree on the need for the National Park to be brought back together again, without a coherent highway. Now the proposal contained in the previous government is disconnected. Will the SV and the representative of Langeland contribute to bringing this project closer to a final solution than appears to be the case when the debate ends today?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1012	I just have to say that what I'm wearing isn't my funeral dress. This is the dress SV has equipped me with [[muttering in the hall]] The representative of Sponheim is busy and, of course, the government is busy with, the biological deficiency is tied up against Hardangerbrua. I was very specific about that in my article. These tunnels are likely to be necessary. It may go beyond the priorities of NTP, or they may need to be financed by tolls. Here is SV in line with the left. Our problem is that we took over this case from Bondevik II and Sponheim. I believe the representative is right that the matter could be resolved quickly if the previous government had been seated.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1019	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1023	It was the Bondevik government that last October presented the proposal for the expansion and financing of Hardangerbrua. The Christian People's Party today rejoices with those who need the bride, and with the positive benefits that the bride will bring both directly and indirectly. The project will improve local and regional communication between the East and the West over Rv. 7 on the Hardanger range. Brua costs with supply routes above NOK 2 billion and is to be financed mainly by tolls and local subsidies. There are two elements in the closing part of the treatment that have been given special attention – both of which relate to possible consequences of the brewing: firstly, that the frequency of the ferry connection Kinsarvik – Utne – Kvandal should be maintained as today, and, secondly, the consequence of the wild rain on Hardangervidda. With regard to the ferry link Utne-Kvandal, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would say that we perceive this connection to continue with the current frequency and quality. Insurance whether it is expressed both locally and centrally. The Kinsarvik-Utne-Kvandal link shall not be damaged due to the construction of Hardangerbrua. Any increased traffic on Hardangervidda will affect the largest wilderness habitat in Norway. This applies to the direct effects of the highway itself and traffic there, but indirect effects are also feared. Studies on any changes to the conditions of the wild train are under way and will be submitted during 2006. There is broad agreement that this investigation should lead to the construction of the environmental tunnel on Hardangervidda. The Christian People's Party is pleased about this. The Bondevik government proposed that such an environmental tunnel should possibly be partly financed by extending the tolling period on the bridge. I don't want to hide that with this we are in a conflict between two central considerations. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that tolls and road pricing are started by local initiatives, and that the Stortinget is based on local and political decisions. On the other hand, there are key environmental considerations. For the Christian People's Party, administrative responsibility is absolutely fundamental. We all know how difficult it can be to start and implement a transport project, especially when it is a project that is primarily important for environmental reasons. By entering this bond into the proposition, the Bondevik government wanted to make sure that any negative environmental consequences of the brewing would be compensated quickly. Here in lies a valuable compromise between expansion lines and conservation lines. Now the Left and Christian People's Party are left alone to support the Government's proposal at this point. It is alarming that several months after her government chose not to draw the proposition in an answer to questions raised by the Committee, the Government announced that it is going away from securing the environmental tunnels in the event of partial toll financing. What if the question had not been asked? Would the Council of State then have stood by the initial proposal of the Proposition and what had been taken into account? It is also striking that, rather than being together with us in order to preserve the environment, which has been a taboo for SV, SV now actually ensures a majority both that the bridge is built – as SV said – has been opposed – but also that the environmental guarantees fail. That's too bad. Many of us had hoped that SV would be able to reach a compromise in this matter, a compromise for the sake of the environment. Today we just have to note that SV has not succeeded in this. To put it this way with the representative Langeland's own words, quoted from Dagbladet on 21 February: ‘We are in the government, and Mrs. Halvorsen has decided that we are in the position for.’ It's probably some of the lessons that we all have to take off in government, that we have to compromise. In this case, the compromise went in a direction that the Christian People's Party is not pleased with. But when that is said, I would say that we support the proposition in relation to the construction of Hardangerbrua, and we rejoice with the people of Hardanger that it is now brewing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1050	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1053	The representative Sahl stated in a previous reply that he was concerned about the lack of toll financing in relation to the environmental tunnels. In that connection, he asked who would apply for tolls. He mentioned the sea that the only actor had to be the wild train. The Christian People's Party uncritically joins all the toll projects that come into the hall. They're just stamping them. My question to the representative Sahl is first and foremost: if the wild train were to apply for tolls now, would the Christian People's Party say yes? No, then -- I'm going to challenge the Christian People's Party on the same question I had to represent Halleraker from the Right. See if the representative Sahl is quite clear about securing the ferry link Kvandal-Utne-Kinsarvik, my question is quite simply: if the construction of a bridge leads to a traffic decline on the ferry link, will the Christian People's Party stand upright and provide for increased government appropriations to maintain the ferry link at today's level?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1060	Finally, on the specific question, I can answer an unconditional yes. We have clearly stated, both here from the pulpit and in the proposition, that Utne–Kvandal should have a frequency and an offer that is at the present level. We will do the same in the future. When it comes to the Christian People's Party swallowing toll projects, I just want to say that the Christian People's Party, as I was in here, is basically not for us to adopt toll projects on the part of the Storting or on the part of the Government. When it comes to local initiatives, we're open to it, because we're realists. I would like to remind you that the Progress Party was co-responsible for the national transport plan that is now underpinning it. They were in the majority who adopted it. That means that that's the means we have to go in these four years. So even if the Progress Party had been given the opportunity for their proposals to go through, we can determine by per cent. today that there would not have been any Hardanger Bru.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1067	I really have a question to the representative Jan Sahl that he might possibly answer yes or no to: does the representative of the Christian People's Party think it would be fair for local users of Hardangerbrua to be involved in financing the environmental tunnel at Hardangervidda?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1072	There is no doubt that Hardangerbrua and the road across Hardangervidda are closely linked. This is not equivalent to what we have on the next case that we are going to address, where there are questions about an ESA case or not. What is important for the Christian People's Party is to ensure that there are funds for those environmental tunnels. If the investigation that is now under way, with which we were also strongly involved and helped to get us started in the last period, shows that environmental tunnels are required, the money has to come from somewhere. They are not included in the national transport plan for the first four years. And I'm going to assume when this government goes away from this, it's because it's going to come up with money so that these environmental tunnels are going to be built. In that case, it's a reasonable solution for us. But the guarantee that there will be funds has been removed by this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1077	I felt strongly the need to ask for a reply when the representative Sahl presented this as if the national transport plan had been adopted from 1 January 2006. It's not at all. The framework of the National Transport Plan, based on the agreement reached by the Progress Party with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, does not exist. The red-green government has failed with SEK 1.6 billion in 2006 compared to the deal. Those frames don't exist, just to let the representative Sahl know. I have a new question, as the Christian People's Party is not included in the comment on page 4 of the setting. It is a note from a majority of the Committee, the Working Party, the Right, the SV and the Centre, stressing that ‘claims shall be raised and toll station shall be closed when the project Rv 7/rv 13 Hardangerbrua has been paid down’. That note is not a Christian People's Party. Does this mean that the Christian People's Party will have an opening in order to possibly link the construction of the environmental tunnels to this project at a later stage?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1084	When it comes to dealing with the framework of the national transport plan, the Progress Party also has good experience of what it is about. In the majority who put up the high framework, the Progress Party was also involved. They agreed to spend an extra NOK 1 billion per person. years also to the finish. It went no further than to the first budget, then the promises were broken – for everything they were worth. You can't blame the sitting government. Compared with the national transport plan, there are currently DKK 1.6 billion behind. I just notice that it's not money for environmental tunnels. When it comes to the future, it lies in the hands of the sitting government. We're unfortunately in the minority here, and we're dealing with what the government comes to. We will now be champions for the Storting to come up with appropriations so that the environmental tunnels can be built – if the conclusions are that they must be built.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1093	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1096	I too will join all those who congratulate Hardanger on today. As a newly elected chairman in Ulvik, I had the pleasure of sitting around a nice spring day in 1985, when Johan J. Jakobsen said the winged words that have been referred many times today. I also had the less joy of seeing a beguiled bunch of cobbled hardys leaving the gallery in the staging room with defeat in June 1996. Had someone at that time dared to make a bet about the probability that ten years later there would come up a matter in the Storting with unanimity for the construction of Hardangerbrua, I think it would have been fantastic odds. But that's the situation we've come into. We could have spent a lot of time analysing it, but at least it's a great story for Hardanger that we've got there. Much has been said in this debate about the national importance of these projects. It concerns both a north-south axis, in the interior of the West, and – not least – an east-west axis. I personally believe that the last mentioned is going to have a greater significance than many have to pay attention to so far. The effective path between the country's two largest cities I'm pretty sure is going to go here. The numbers here are probably going to show something other than what's in the prognosis. It has in some ways not been politically correct to dry up this promise very much, but in this debate I will nevertheless choose to do so. This is going to be the main road east-west. There's no doubt about it. It's so effective, and it works so well. If once in the future it is also supplemented by the good environmental tunnels, which will make it a safe way over the vastness, it will be the dynamic of this development. I think it makes sense for the country. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to say a little about local and regional conditions, since I am a great representative of Hordaland and am resident in one of the host municipalities of this bridge. The decision taken in 1996, when Hardanger – as the only place in Norway, almost – failed to produce a large toll project, created a negative psychology and has for ten years been a bit paralysing much of the development, in and of itself beyond what the bride represents. It was in such a way that everyone else succeeded – with triangle connection, with competing projects in Hordaland, but not in Hardanger. The fact that you put this ratio behind you, I think it's important too much, for more than that bridge represents. Of course, there are many local and regional conditions associated with this bridge. Larger parts of Hardanger have continental connections. One can drive continuously by car to the important peninsula of Bergen and to the Bergens market, and not least is a bridge important for travel life south of fjord. But I also think we should stop by the fact that when the bridge is built, and you're in the middle of it, it's a quarter drive to four town halls. These are the town halls in the three municipalities with 1 000-1 200 people in each and in a slightly larger, Ullensvang. A cooperation pattern seen in the light of something like this is going to create a whole new dynamic and a new development in this region. There will be a community of living and working people who will change the region in a positive sense, but also face some challenges. One of the challenges is clearly addressed in this debate. This concerns developments on the other side of Sørfjorden, on the Folgefonn peninsula, on the west side and in Jondalen. I am pleased to note that the Storting is today concerned that the decision will not provide a positive dynamic for parts of Hardanger and make the Folgefonn peninsula a backbone. Therefore, ferry connection, frequency and quality are so important. However, it is also important that this part of Hardanger, almost from tomorrow by, both locally and regionally and nationally, be given increased attention so that it does not become a backbone, but gets involved in positive travel life development and activity. I think many good forces should contribute to this. The debate on Hardangerbrua and the environment has been central for several years. From the point of view I have followed this environmental debate, I will roughly divide it into two elements. One is a general resistance to all road projects, based on forecasts of increased traffic and what it represents of pollution and its likes. Hardangerbrua has in a way become the address of frustration over all such projects. I think many in Hardanger have felt that Hardangerbrua has been picked out to be such an address for frustrations, almost because they are so few, and because they live so widely. They're going to take it, while the Sunthordlanders and many others are winning out with their projects. It is factually such that this is a know-how sum of 1.3 km. There is nothing dramatic about the environment – of course it is not. The real thing in the environmental debate about a hardanger bridge is Hardangervida – the fact that we have this national monument as the national park is, and the fact that we have a highway that goes through, in and on, completely independent of the fact that there is a ferry there. The challenge of building an environmental tunnel that brings together the national park and which also creates a more traffic-proof road must not be abandoned. I hope that the Council of State will be able to confirm positively the need to work for such environmental tunnels.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1113	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1117	The left of its former Minister for Transport, Torild Skogsholm, saw it as a matter of time to extend the period of tolling of Hardangerbrua to finance possible environmental tunnels at Hardangervidda. Does the representative Lars Sponheim think it is reasonable for the locals in Hardanger to pay for such a project at Hardangervidda?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1122	Let me first say, when the Workers' Party takes a line on me in this debate, that it's not often I remember lines on my posts from debates in this big room. But I still remember very well the line taken by the former spokeswoman of the Workers' Party for this project in the Committee on Transport, Solveig Torsvik, June 10, 1996. There was some of the bitterest, sharpest and most arrogant resistance to the harddanger bridge I have ever experienced. Fortunately, it looks different today. So to the question: I was in the government that promoted this proposal, and I saw the need to connect bridge to a security that the environmental tunnels would come. Then, as a significant user of this, I was willing to participate in and finance it. For one place the toll collection has to be done, and the way to drive money through the stalls – I would say – is not the most effective way. So I think it's necessary. When this is no longer the case, and it is disconnected today, I ask that the Council of State provide us with security as soon as possible for the tunnels to come in one way or another – because that is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1129	I would like to follow up on the previous line round. It is true that the Left has turned in relation to connecting the financing of environmental tunnels to Hardangerbrua. I would like to ask the representative Sponheim to look at the note on page 4 of the setting, which I also referred to in my previous reply to the Christian People's Party. There is the Left with, along with the majority, and it is stated and underlined that in the case of Hardangerbrua, the collection will cease and the toll station will be closed once the project has been paid down. My question to the representative Sponheim is: is there a principle that the Left will deal with, or is it just that the Left will consider it on a case-by-case basis, so that when the Left finds it too good, some projects will be continued, either in the form of a higher toll charge or in the form of extended toll collection, in order to pay for other projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1138	It is my opinion and that of the Left, and it was also Bondevik II's opinion, that Hardangerbrua was environmentally acceptable if we were assured that the environmental tunnels would come. That security has the bulk of storage now disconnected. I'm so busy that Hardangerbrua is coming, that I don't think it's a big point to file on this very much today. I regret that today we do not have the necessary financial security. I don't think at any time there will be any local toll company and initiative to collect tolls for Hardangerbrua. I think it's a national project to ensure an overall national park. When that project comes up, it will be natural to discuss a financing that is decoupled from today's collection for Hardangerbrua, probably with a toll project and with tolls located at any end of these environmental tunnels. I hope the Council of State will come back with such a project. But I regret that today we do not have financial security for the construction of these environmental tunnels.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1145	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1148	Today is a long-awaited day for large parts of Hardanger and surrounding. It's reflected in a big show at the gallery. I see that it flashes in Nypussa Silver and Hardanger Bundles, and that has its cause. It's been a rough road to Hardangerbrua. This proposition, which is the second about the bridge, was made by the government of Bondevik II and held up by today's government. I am pleased that the Committee has joined the Committee on the development and financing of Hardangerbrua and that we are now receiving a unanimous decision. It might not have happened if we had not received a government change – as has been said before in the debate. I am also pleased that two pluralities in the Committee have concluded that the Government of Stoltenberg II will not keep up the link between the construction of Hardangerbrua and the construction of environmental tunnels on Hardangervidda. Winter operation on rv. 7 is central to the assessment of the conditions for the wild train. I want to come back to Stortinget when I have gained more knowledge about this context. I am also pleased that the Committee has joined the Government's view that there should be a decent offer in the ferries Kinsarvik-Utne-Kvandal, even if the bridge is built to maintain and further develop the established food and busnet structure in the area. If the minority, who has a more detailed suggestion about the ferry frequency, actually wants to bring up to voting and get it down, is up to the minority itself. But there is little doubt that the cases are losing out on the presentation coming up to voting. Hardangerbrua will replace today's ferry link between Bruravik and Brimnes and will be built between Vallavik in Ulvik herad and Bu in Ullensvang herad. The project will improve local and regional communication. In addition to the bridge, which will have a total length of 1,380 metres, it shall be built 2,4 km of tunnel and 0,8 km of road today. In addition, 0.9 km of walk and cycle path leads to the bridge. Hardangerbrua's operating frame is $1,810 million. 2005-kronor. The project shall be financed by tolls, municipal and local subsidies, chartered ferry services and ordinary state resources, but mainly through tolls and local advances. I have noticed that Hordaland County is willing to use funds from the frame to other national roads for a project that is also part of the tribal road network. The saved ferry charge is associated with the closure of today's Bruravik-Brimnes link. Progress has been made from driving gear in the ferry link Bruravik-Brimnes for about five and a half years after the project has been approved by Stortinget and until the start of traffic in 2011. It has also been added to basic expropriation for about 15 years. In order to reduce the period to 15 years, the funding plan has set aside a base of 180 million. 2006-krona in government funds for the project for the period 2010-2015. The county has guaranteed up to 1 300 million. EUR 2004 in borrowings. I have noticed that the majority in the committee stated that the toll company and the guarantor are working for an optimal interest burden on the loan portfolio within an acceptable risk, and that this would happen. Hardangerbrua is a result of long-term, hard local work and shows how much commitment there is to transport solutions in our long-term country. The county council and the local government take a great deal of responsibility – the county council as a regional policy actor, knowing how important a bridge is for business and busses in Hardanger and the development that can be achieved in a positive way. I want Hardanger to close with the day and close with a project that I hope will lead to growth and development in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1169	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1172	Growth and development in the region are important. I have a couple of questions related to it. Can the Council of State confirm that this decoupling between the bridge and the environmental tunnels is not of a temporary duration, that this is not a connection that is returned when the Government subsequently submits a case on the environmental tunnels, but that there is a lasting decoupling that will result in growth and development in the region? Growth and development in the region also depend on a well-functioning ferry link between Kvandal and Utne. Can we get assurances from the Council of State that there will be a well-functioning ferry link also in the future for the groups of road users using the ferry connection today, who obviously will not find their way with or naturally will choose the bridge as a new corridor, but will continue to use existing ferry connection Kvandal-Utne? Will they still get a good offer, so that we can get growth and development across the region, also on both sides of the Southfjord?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1181	Of course, the position on the decoupling of Hardangebrua from wide was not, as was claimed earlier in the debate, related to questions from the Stortinget, but was decided when, in good dialogue with the government parties, the Government discussed whether the matter should be withdrawn from the Stortinget or brought up by handling. It's a decision that will last over time, and of course, the Government is in possession. There is a work related to the error cleaning problem at Hardangarvidda, and I will of course come back to Stortinget with one thing when we have clarified the issues as a discussion there. Kvandal-Utne is a connection to be maintained, and it should be a satisfactory and well-functioning offer for those who are local users of this connection. But there is no tradition that Storting will adopt a detailed grid pattern. In this way, I am satisfied with the decision that the majority add up to, and will follow it up in the work ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1188	I stand by what I said in my speech in relation to what was the answer from the Council of State of Navarsete, and the remarkable fact that the committee was not made aware that a substantial part of the matter had been drawn before a question was asked by the committee – in the middle of the discussion, with which we were fully involved. We are surprised that the Government is drawing such a significant part of what is here, and I think we need to get an explanation of why the committee was not informed about that position. Then I'll ask you a specific question. In this letter of reply you will find, among other things: that there will be no particular increase in traffic on Hardangervidda even if the bridge comes. Then what I ask the Council of State: Has one already concluded that the environmental tunnels may not be necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1195	The representative Sahl may not have marked it so clearly yet, but we now have a plural government. When things were presented to the Stortinget, it was the Stortinget that had the decisive setting in mind. In this case, the government discussed it; we should not subtract the proposition. The proposition has doctors in Stortinget as he was, and it's obviously our party groups who in the work of the committee will stand as exponents of the view of the Government in this matter. So we had a good dialogue with our groups, and that was part of the government discussion. But the exposure of that position will, of course, come into the bulk treatment, as we chose not to present an additional proposition in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1203	In that case, it's not just the representative Jan Sahl who hasn't quite discovered that we've got a majority government, because that majority obviously hasn't been used to deliver so many things to the Storting so far. It is typical that when we have one of the most important debates today — and matters — after the elections, there are issues from the previous government that are being discussed. It's to hope that this majority will be able to become a majority in the Chamber that will bring matters to the attention of the Stortinge. This also applies to the follow-up to today’s case – as asked by the representative Sahl – namely the issue of environmental tunnels. The majority now decide that it should be decoupled from the funding ofhardangerbru. But as I understand it is said that environmental tunnels are still important. Toll projects, which environmental tunnels will require, are also said to be based on local initiatives. That's the great tradition. My argument is that this is a national project through a national park, and therefore it should be a central initiative. Is that what the Council of State shares?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1212	To the representative of Sponheim, I would like to say that I have presented both the proposal on the Atlantic Tunnel and Finnfast, which are to be dealt with later today – important and important issues, which were mentioned in broad terms, but not presented. When it comes to environmental tunnels in Hardangervida, I have said and written that there is a work to be done in 2006. This Council of State will await the conclusions of the discussions before concluding what the Government will do — whether or not it will go for environmental tunnels. I record in the proposal from the Bondevik II government that it was also what the government would do. The proposition does not say that one should have environmental tunnels. It has been said that if one assesses environmental tunnels, a toll collection will be linked to these environmental tunnels. First, we have to assess whether we're going to have environmental tunnels, and then we're going to find funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1219	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1222	Yes, then the day has come, which so many have been waiting for – and perhaps especially those who did not give up after the defeat of this case in 1996. Imagine that it would then be a unanimous decision we will take a little later today! Hardangerbrua must probably be the transportation project that puts Norway's record in local commitment, both human involvement and money. First, it must be said that the county has had this bridge as its priority road project number one for almost ten years. Neighborhood municipalities and the municipality of Bergen have committed themselves strongly in the matter. The background for this issue to come up again today is the strong commitment of both local authorities, businesses and the population of the region. Municipalities affected by the brua – Eidfjord, Voss, Granvin, Kvam, Ullensvang and Ulvik – have spent money on the bridge, failing in a very demanding municipal economy, and the municipality of Bergen has also been a contributor financially. Eidfjord Municipality, which is a municipality of power, has spent several hundred million for necessary pre-workers and pre-projects for the bridge, also for the supply routes and the project itself. This clearly shows how much the county and the region have wanted this transport project. Eidfjord municipality has approx. 900 inhabitants, and at the countless public meetings that have been held over the years, at some meetings there have been over 1,000 people – a crazy local commitment. It's also very happy for the whole region to get this ferry-free route between east and west, which will provide the shortest route between Bergen and Oslo. I'm sure this project will be a new give for Inner Hardanger, who sorely needs it after descending population and economic development. It could also be crucial if young families want to live in this part of the country, and if young people who have moved out want to move back after they have taken up education. Brua will give the people of fjord a new freedom to travel, it will provide predictability and make it easier for the business community that depends on car transport to transport goods to and from. Not least for the tourism industry, this is important – not just because the hangover itself can become a tourist attraction, but because the tourism industry in District Norway is totally dependent on showing a community where people live. That's what tourists want to see. They don't want to see overgrown beans, popular houses or empty storerooms. When the oil and gas end one day, travel life is one of the industries that we really have the opportunity to invest in in Norway. That's why it's so important that we now share in thinking forward for this industry. Although road users now have to pay tolls for some time, it will not be a ferry ticket forever. There are not many cases in Stortinget that are decided unanimously, which have so many spectators in the gallery – even some in a bundle. It just shows that they follow up to the last nod, the ones that are from the region. As a vossing, I would like to end by congratulating Hordaland – and not least persistent hard feelings – on the adoption of the case today. Later on, maybe we can toast to sides!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1243	There are many happy representatives here today, and they are many happy listeners. I am very happy, or a little worried, too, perhaps, because someone has claimed that the proposal of the Progress Party in this matter is a postponement proposal, while the majority of the representatives have expressed their satisfaction at the unanimous adoption of the matter. Some confusion may be, and therefore I would like to address something that goes on our proposal. When the representative of Greece uses so much of his commitment to claim that the Progress Party has a different agenda, it is important to clarify what is stated in the Progress Party's proposal: it is clear that we support the project, as explained, but that we want to replace the toll financing with government funding – that is why we are involved in the unanimous decision to adopt the project. However, as my colleague, Mr Sortevik, also said, there is some scepticism and goes to the Progress Party. This is evident from the rest of our proposal, where we want the state to take financial responsibility – which it does not seem to do this time either. If we had a majority in favour of this, we would demand that the state more secure state funding, with additional quality assurance of the traffic base. I think it is healthy that we in the Progress Party, which is all alone in believing that the state should take greater responsibility for building infrastructure in this country – which is enshrined in the Road Act, but as the majority of this room repeatedly deviates – show that we are sceptical about some projects. We have done that to the degrees in the proposal that is here. It is apparent from the underlying reports, not least the Moravian Research Report, which is quite clear in its speech on the societal benefits of this project. But then we have also fallen to the conclusion that when there is so much uncertainty about this project, there is an even greater reason why the state takes responsibility for the funding. We then find it pointless that regional and local transit traffic and local road users should take the risk that lies there – the more important it is that the State should take a greater share of the funding. When we see the large proportion of tolls in this project, I'm also afraid that it can provide a basis for increased toll rates in all the other projects that had to come at a later stage. We have also been clear and clear and stated that we are concerned that the construction of the bridge will destroy the ferries. I think that the Progress Party has received clear and clear answers from most people here today that if we have a significant decline in ferry traffic, the state should make sure that some more resources are used to maintain ferry links. It's the Progress Party very pleased with that. Some have wondered why the Progress Party has not called for a referendum. Studies have been carried out in the region asking whether a priority is given to racial protection or on a bridge. The feedback was quite clear, but it tells the Progress Party that people in this region don't settle down to get this bridge. The region will continue to increase the pressure on us who are responsible for infrastructure so that we take greater responsibility for racial protection. The Progress Party has done so in several ways, and the Progress Party will continue to do so, even if this bridge comes into place. We are also pleased that the majority in this Chamber has made it quite clear that this project is to be financed, disbursed and terminated without being linked to other projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1258	The gallery attendance shows that this is a great day for Hardanger. We're looking at an image of the local exposure to Hardangerbrua, which after many years is crowned with results. When a consensual big thing here today says yes to the wedding project, it is the beginning of an even bigger day, when the bride is expected to be finished, in 2011. Internal Hardanger, like other districts and regions in this country, needs good communications to be able to live and have their livelihood here. Transport is one of the most important things we can do to make use of the whole country. This, of course, has been understood by people in the region. That's why people and businesses, county councils and municipalities themselves are willing to buy money to build Hardangerbrua. This is important to bring with it when assessing this project. There will be no more government funds for other states and projects here, even if you say no to Hardangerbrua. This is where we're going to spend the right amount of 180 million. State crowns, but these are the state-allocated funds for so-called other national roads that Hordaland County is well placed to give priority to this project. This project will improve communications in Inner Hardanger, provide easier regional transport and better east-west connectivity. However, in the case of the East-West link, it is important to underline the decision that the E16 route should be the main route between Oslo and Bergen in the future as well. Hardangerbrua, with slightly increased traffic on rv. 7 over the Hardanger range, doesn't rock it. Increased traffic in conflict with the wild train has otherwise been maintained as a strong objection to the construction of Hardangerbrua. Now, the traffic growth is likely to be small, as the government writes in the proposition, but the problem of error cleaning exists independently of the construction of the hardware bridge. This problem needs to be remedied whenever we have a better basis for assessing the necessary measures. That's why it's also clarified from the Government's side – a plurality in the setting refers to – that one will disconnect the construction of Hardangerbrua from the question of environmental tunnels on Hardangervidda, i.e. one departs from the possibility of extending the toll period on the bridge in order to finance possible tunnel solutions on a wide scale. Another point of appeal against the bridge project is the claim of unsafe traffic base and therefore also the financing arrangement. In the proposition, the traffic base has been assessed. The Ministry of Transport also states that traffic forecasts are uncertain. Several consultants have been committed to ensuring the quality of the traffic base. Nevertheless, in the case of external quality assurance, the consultant concludes that the annual traffic generated by the State Road Service, both after opening and in a few years, represents a fairly accurate estimate. Otherwise, of course, it is taken as a height for how to deal with any failure according to the current toll project guidelines. One is afraid that the ferry connection Kinsarvik – Utne – Kvandal will be shut down. This connection shall be secured, and the majority of the Committee shall underpin the setting that there shall be a likely offer of this ferry link in the future, in order to maintain the established nutrient and bustan structure of the area, not least. Inner Hardanger is a special beautiful area. It makes it attractive for tourists, and travel is an important source of nutrition. If Hardangerbrua wants to weaken or strengthen tourism, it may be discussed, but I think it will be a beautiful hanging bridge that comes into place within the spring, at least much nicer than the bridge that was in force ten years ago, as there were quite a lot of stone fillings on both sides. In that way, it might have been a good idea to wait. Now maybe a bridge can become a travel life attraction or a goal in itself. There is reason to wish Hardanger happiness, both with better communication and with a future focus on tourism.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1275	Finally, the Stortinget makes the right decision on hardangerbru. It has been a long time to wait for us who have been a bridesmaid for many years. Now, however, is the day here, and there is every reason to congratulate firemen in Hardanger, local government, county councillors and brewing companies with enormous effort, incitement and belief, believing that a good cause would find a good solution. When two governments now stand behind the proposal for a new hardware bridge, there is no doubt about the outcome. It's gonna be a new bridge! When the project is realized, it is thanks to a high level of local funding. In a project artificially calculated at NOK 2.2 billion, the state goes in with less than 10 p.m., county councils and municipalities go in with more than 500 million. kr, and the rest is to be paid with tolls – or dolls, as you might call it here. Brua, one of the world's longest suspension bridges, will be a landmark, but will be an important link between east and west and between north and south. Rv. 7 through Hallingdal and over Hardangervidda is a widely used main road between east and west, and with Hardangerbrua in place there is reason to believe that traffic will increase. Now I heard that the previous speaker, from Uppland, was busy preserving the E16. One would like to keep it, but if people are running through Hallingdal and over Hardangervidda, one must at least consider the status of this road connection as well. When one knows that two of the country's most beautiful and largest travel-life regions, Hallingdal and Hardanger, are on each side of the world, one understands the significance this bride will have for travel life. At each end of the road connection lies the country's two largest cities, and although much of the goods between Oslo and Bergen now go by train, the bridge will also be important for utility traffic between east and west. But above all, this is a bridge that connects Hardanger and Hordaland. Some have tried to make this a struggle between east and west; others try to use environmental arguments, while others are angry because this project is in front of other good projects in Hordaland. But it's going to be a unanimous decision in Stortinget today. It's alarming in itself. It's been ten years since the Stortinge said no to Hardangerbru. 71 representatives voted in favour, and in Hordaland and Hardanger they shook off the disappointment, went on with fresh courage, and today the disappointment is turned to joy. Brua will be adopted. For me, who has worked on a transport project in Buskerud and the East-West relationship for over 20 years, it came as a positive additional element in the consultation that the bridge is also important for the North-South connection, among other things. The seat council pointed to the hearing we had in Eidfjord. An inner north-south route is the crossroads, which is also important when we are now dealing with Hardangerbrua. Clearance of the environmental tunnels over width has been discussed by many and that clarification has to come. The question of the wild train needs to be resolved. With a clear situation for wide and new projects such as Sokna–Örgenvika and a new road below Solmihögda, this will be an east-west connection that can match. When I was little and drove to my grandparents in Lofthus, the biggest attraction for a car-sick little guy was 500 meters of asphalt road past the Maurseth hotel. Now there'll be a bridge with a broth longer than the Golden Gate. The world is moving forward!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1296	It is historic when the decision on Hardangerbrua is made today. Many happy and festive people have taken the trip to Stortinget and the capital. I would like to say, as many have said, 'Congratulations with the day!' The wish for the bridge is made visible by clear political decisions over many years in municipalities and county councils. The debate on Hardangerbrua has been a long one, and now ends the last stage. There have been many debates and differing views on this investment. But that's how it'll always be -- some for, others against, and some who want rematches. It just shows a popular commitment, and that's good. Traffic creates debate and not least emotions. Hardangerbrua is important for Hordaland and Hardanger. The funding of the project is a continuation of a model where both tolls, subsidies from Hordaland County and municipalities in Hordaland, saved ferry subsidies and ordinary state funds are included. We have noticed that the project has a broad local and county municipal connection. Should a person have spread his residence and business life in District Norway, a good infrastructure must be provided. Good transport solutions are a good framework for business, and not least for housing. Many believe that Hardangerbrua will have a very positive impact on the region. Hardanger is characterized by dislocation, and the forecasts are gloomy. Most municipalities in Inner Hardanger have long experienced stagnation and decline in the population and business. Among other things, the Central Statistical Office believes that the seven Hardanger municipalities will lose approximately. 1200-1300 inhabitants over the next ten years. This represents approx. 5.5 pst. by the population. The biggest challenge in the future is youth. What is an offer for emigrated youth? Or, how would you keep the youth you have? I understand that one has invited young people to come up with opinions on what kind of tools you need to start to get young people to live in Hardanger, and to return after school. In a clear first place among the responses was availability — and I repeat: availability. Youth will be able to travel to and from when they want, not when the ferry will. They will have a labour market that covers both sides of the fjord, and they will be able to drive home after a concert or a party in Bergen or Odda without being met with a fjord that is closed between the weekends. 23.30 and 11:30 p.m. 7:00 a.m. I've been studying vacation time! It is difficult to decide where to live. Many parents and grandparents of generations have been at home with the heart of their throats and memories of their own youth, when children and grandchildren are on their way to the ferry. From experience, we know that the struggle to reach the ferry – either on a smooth lead or lying behind a mobile home – has ended up wrong for some of them. Hardangerbrua will also provide an enlarged labour market, a transport economic gain and increased cooperation between municipalities in the region, and the tourism industry expects to increase turnover, not least in terms of jobs. The rest of the business is reporting greater opportunities for expansion and new business start-ups. It will also increase cultural activity in the region and provide a shorter route to school and hospitals. In short, Brua will have major positive ring-effects and will be an extremely important and welcome contribution to good development for Inner Hordaland. So finally, for the ferry section Kinsarvik – Utne – Kvandal: it must be maintained even if Hardangerbrua is now being built. There shall also be a satisfactory offer in the ferry link in the future – this in order to maintain and continue to develop the established food and housing structure in the area. I believe that there should be no cause for concern for the future – nor the opposite. And that means optimism!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1317	Those who speak the following shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1320	Hardangerbrua is an important transportation project for Hordaland. We've heard that several times here today. Brua will replace today's ferry service. It will provide better communication locally in Inner Hardanger, a better regional transport service, and it will provide better services for long-distance services with a ferry-free connection east-west and north-south. The financing of the bridge is a continuation of a model in which both tolls, subsidies from Hordaland County and municipalities in Hordaland, savings in ferry and state subsidies are included. It's just to congratulate the local forces who have worked hard and intensively to set up this important transport project. The left joined the government of Hardangerbrua, assuming that environmental tunnels were to be established to preserve the Hardanger range as a nationally coherent and comprehensive high-mountain plateau. For the Left, it was important to get environmental tunnels into as part of the Hardangerbrua financing system in order to ensure biodiversity on a broad scale, and not least as a measure to ensure the traction routes of the mountain train. The last wild tribe of Northern Europe is worth taking care of! It is with sadness Left notes that the Stoltenberg government did not see this environmental aspect as they linked environmental tunnels from the bridge financing facility. We are then in a situation where the so-called environmental party SV votes for a bridge they are against, and towards an environmental tunnel they are really in favour of. The left is determined by the decision on the construction of Hardangerbrua, but we want to be drivers for the development of environmental tunnels. When the Left was able to set up environmental tunnels as part of the financing plan with three out of 19 government councils, SV should also have five out of 19 government councils, including the Minister for the Environment. It is only to note that SV failed to do so; now the Left, together with the Christian People's Party, must be the environmental driver of Norwegian politics. However, I am pleased that the Minister for Transport will come back to Stortinget when she has gained more knowledge of the wilderness's migratory routes. Finally, on our committee tour in Hardanger we registered great concern for the ferry section Kinsarvik-Utne-Kvandal. In the cheers around the new Hardanger Bridge, it seems that it is important not to forget this ferry connection. This offer is important for the maintenance and further development of business and housing in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1335	As the Christian People's Party pointed out earlier in the debate, it is absolutely necessary to build environmental tunnels on Hardangervidda if the ongoing investigation shows that Hardangerbrua is exacerbating the conditions of the wild. Many fear that the bridge will increase traffic between east and west, and that the wild reindeer population on the shore is thus threatened. In that case, we need an extensive extension, also by Rv. 7 over the Hardanger range. It's important that we see these things in context. Environmental considerations must be put first. The cross-sectional migration of wild fauna must be ensured, and if requested by the Environment Council, sections of the national road must also be put in tunnels. Hardangervida is one of the largest wildrein tribes in Europe, and it is a unique global resource. The Christian People's Party believes that the link between tolls over Hardangerbrua and Rv. 7 is essential for progress in the work of the Hardanger-wide tunnel. I am therefore disappointed that today's government does not see this. It is gratifying to hear that the Council of State will come back to Stortinget with one thing about this, but it is disappointing that SV, who wants to be an environmental party, has done a complete turnaround and has not even managed to maintain the connection between Hardanger Bridge and the construction of environmental tunnels on Hardangervidda. The representative of Langeland says in today’s ‘Policy Quarter’ that SV in position has tried to stop Hardangerbrua, but that the Government has not taken this into account. The Christian People's Party would wish that the environmental exposure in the Government was greater, and that this commitment also got through. So far it's been disappointing. That SV has now lost this case, yes, in practice it means that it is also the error that has lost.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1347	It's great to experience that a total accumulation today is adopting the construction of Hardangerbrua. The majority, even including the Socialist Left Party, even perceives that Hardangerbrua becomes an attraction in itself. There's music in the ears of a displaced hardening. This shows that it is useful to fight for what you believe in, and that local democracy can win even when the resistance is great. Hardangerbrua is simply a holiday relief project on the Bruravik–Brimnes route, providing people with savings in terms of time and flexibility. The bridge is locally financed and the state's contribution is low. The bridge will have a major impact on the business of Hardanger and will greatly expand the housing and labour market. This will give a strong growth impulse to a region that, unlike the rest of Hordaland, has been struggling with population decline for several years. Hardangerbrua has been a political challenge for several reasons. It reinforces rv. 7 as an east-west relationship in competition with other options. Large parts of the traffic between Bergen and Oslo will in the future go along rv. 7, and traffic growth will provide the basis for new investments in this link. Environmental tunnel over Hardangervida will also have a justification for improving traffic conditions on RV. 7th@item: inlistbox Hardangerfjorden is a national environmental symbol, and Hardangervidda has a unique wild tree trunk. Therefore, environmental organisations have turned the resistance to Hardangerbrua into a battle cause. In my view, it is a false basis. Hardangerbrua will be an enrichment for Hardangerfjorden, and the relationship between Rv. 7 and the wild reindeer strain will be handled in a good way. The fjord is long-distance, and not all parts of the fjord are directly benefiting from the project. There has also been resistance from our regional magazine Bergen until last year. In total, there has been a lot of resistance to the project. Knowing the position of some of those who vote for today and reading the comments and the postponement proposal of the Progress Party, there is little doubt that, despite unanimity, Hardangerbrua is adopted with what can be called relatively narrow political margins. The right considers Hardangerbrua to be our project. We've been working for the bridge for many years, on many different levels. This has been one of the most exciting and dramatic individual projects from Hordaland in recent years. I think it was crucial for the project that the Co-operation Administration promoted the proposal last autumn in the form of a proposition. And once we have done so, it is due to good political craftsmanship from several parties and from several individual politicians. Hardangerbrua is primarily brought forward by solid work from the populace of Hardanger, Hordaland and Bergen. Today’s decision is a victory for local democracy, a victory for those who have fought for their future in Hardanger for years, and a victory for Hordaland. That is why we are so proud – and happy – of today’s unanimous decision. I will end by wishing people and businesses in Hardanger and Hordaland good luck with this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1364	On 10 June 1996 the Stortinget said no to Hardangerbrua. Today Stortinget says yes. But it did not go more than three days from the Storting said no to the county council in Hordaland on 13 June 1996 by county rapporteur Magnar Lussand and several other firesmen decided to move on. They rejected the Storting's decision to refuse to the bridge. The project was too important, and it was too good. They decided to reset. New impact assessments, all figures had to be updated so that the basis for a new decision could be laid. In June 2001, the district council in Lofthus, where I was on board, decided on Hardangerbrua as priority No. 1 of the national road projects. The financial plan for the bridge shows the enormous local commitment. Municipal grants of nearly 150 million. kr, municipal concession funds of more than 350 million. kr, in addition to more than SEK 1.4 billion in tolls, show a strong loyal will and believe that Hardangerbrua will be realized. So the ordinary state funds are equal to 177 million. kr. Why is a bride important? Indeed, it binds together an important geographical area and provides much better communications locally in internal Hardanger, it opens up a wider labour market, it is very important for the north-south link, between Voss and Odda, i.e. the internal route, and not least a ferry-free connection east-west. It creates the necessary flexibility for business. The history of Hardangerbrua shows that important issues such as very many transport projects can, if they have local and regional anchorages, emerge despite national resistance. A no to the bridge in 1996, is becoming a yes today, because forward-looking local and state politicians never gave up. The attendance at the gallery today shows that this commitment is great, and has been great, and there are many representatives of people in Hardanger who have worked on this project. Congratulations on the day!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1375	For someone who has worked against this bridge for many years, I just get to say congratulations to those who have worked hard for Hardangerbrua, and who can collect a victory today. We don't have a rematch, we've said that. We're part of a government that supports this project, and we take the consequences of that. But Hordaland SV has been, as I said, an avid opponent of the bridge, and we have been in both county and local government, also in Hardanger. The same has been true of nature and environmental protection organisations. SV has priority race protection, good use paths with yellow stripe in the middle and improvement of the ferry connection. The same priorities are a large majority in Hordaland and Hardanger actually agrees. In a poll published in Bergen's Official Journal last autumn, a large majority, also in Hardanger, said that the priority race protection and good use roads over the bridge. The arguments against the bridge are many and well-known. Due to the bridge, the ferry link Utne – Kvandal may be in danger. Brua is a major intervention in nature and in the cultural landscape. In addition, we know that questions can be asked about traffic forecasts and whether toll revenue can be lower than assumed, as Mr. Møreforsk has warned against, which could mean new demands and pressure in a few years. In that case, they will take the form of demands for increased government appropriations for the bridge, which may go beyond other roads in Hordaland and Hardanger, or they will come in the form of further pressure on Rv. 7 over Hardangerbrua, which in turn may harm and disturb the unique wild reindeer tribe of Hardangervidda. When the bride is adopted today – correctly, I must admit, with very little enthusiasm from the SV side – it is important for us to signal what needs to be done now. Firstly, SV will work hard to keep the ferry service Utne–Kvandal up as a decent connection, with modern ferry equipment and the same departure frequency as today. Hardangerbrua will undoubtedly facilitate the connection between Bergen and parts of inner stripe. Then it becomes important that bets on this project do not lead to those who live on the west side of Ullensvang, paying the price – and I say that because I know Hardanger quite well after living there for many years. Secondly, there must be a serious debate on how to resolve greater pressure on Hardangervidda. Norway has a responsibility, as many have said, to manage the unique wild reindeer tribe. Therefore, the construction of environmental tunnels that can ensure the migration of the wild train must be part of that debate. SV is an environmental party, and if necessary we will go in to finance environmental tunnels as a toll project if it turns into it. Hardangerbrua is produced as the major solution for the development of Hardanger. I hope the many people who claim it are right. I am convinced that there must be many other measures, and I am quite sure that when the rest of the government parties hear about those measures, they will agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1398	In a brochure published by the County of Hordaland and the seven municipalities of Hordaland behind Hardangerbrua AS, the title is: ‘Norway needs a living Hardanger, Hardangerbrua is important for Norway’. The centre party fully supports this design. Hardangerbrua will remove an important bottleneck and make the region more attractive to innovation and investment, not least in travel and tourism. In many parts of the internal Western world, there is stagnation before economic development and decline in the population. Time-consuming and difficult communication helps to reinforce this trend. An important contribution when it comes to the competitive environment of business and in order to prevent relocation is to invest in road development and better communication. Of the estimated cost of about NOK 2 billion, the size is financed through tolls and local subsidies. Once again, the community itself is paying for a new, big commercial project! I'm glad Hardangerbrua is now being realized. It's a big day for the region in general and for Hardanger in particular. The Fertiliser Connection Kinsarvik – Utne – Kvandal shall remain in place in the future. This connection is important, perhaps decisive, for enterprises located and established on the Utne. The continuation and further development of the established business and busnet structure in the area is decisive for the continuation of the current communication pattern. It is representatives of the Christian People's Party and the Left who act as if environmental tunnels on Hardangervidda are rewritten in St. pp. No 2 from Bondevik II, both in the case of decisions and funding. It is not correct. On page 12 environmental tunnels are mentioned with six lines, and it says that the issue of environmental tunnels on Hardangervidda will be considered after one has concluded the impact assessment. And what the plural now says in the setting is that we're suggesting that the government will come back to Stortinget with a case of this very thing. It has been confirmed several times by the Council of State from this pulpit. So here, the Left and the Christian People's Party are trying to make a big deal out of something that they're weaker on in the proposition than in the settings of the plural. Finally, to the proposal of the Progress Party: In order not to weaken the majority of those who say about the Utne-Kinsarvik-Kvandal ferry link, I ask the Progress Party to consider making the proposal, or parts of the proposal, a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1418	Today the flag is in Hardanger! A national transport project passes an important milestone. This project is much more than a local road project in internal Hardanger, because with the varied and well-functioning business we have in the West, and with the value creation that this part of the country represents, the fast road between east and west to which Hardangerbrua will contribute is also an important industrial policy project. It's very positive to say about Oslo. There are lots of cozy people, many good and useful institutions, etc., but – and that’s a but – Oslo is a little out of the ordinary! This disadvantage will help Hardangerbrua reduce. In the process towards what is now the result, the Christian People's Party has also played an active role, both locally, regionally and centrally. The project is a brilliant example of combining forces and efforts giving results. This makes Hardanger Bridge a great cross-political project. But more than that: Hardangerbrua is also a monument of victorious willpower and the belief in and the willingness to realize good social project ultimately has impact. This has been a long and victorious march, but "Who is counting the lost battles on the day of victory"? 'Cause today we're slipping, and we're looking forward! Hardangerbrua will represent a time separation. Too many are ‘before and after Hardangerbrua’. We are slipping over the solid plurality that stands behind the project. Two governments, both Bondevik II and Stoltenberg II, have joined the project. And the different parties set up. However, we cannot avoid noticing that the Progress Party has a tenth of its objections to the project. Both this and that should be better paid, this has gone too fast, etc. But even if they protest to all the world, they're still on their way. And good it is. SV also configures. If I have understood correctly what I have read, not least in the media, then the party is actually opposed to the project. But still – and situationally – they are for the project. Maybe not so in principle declaratory, but purely practical, this is very convenient. In the Christian People's Party we are glad that an important national transport and social project today receives a positive clear signal in the Stortinget!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1438	As others have said, this is a great day for Hardanger, and it is also a great day for reason. Of course, it's also a big day for those who've been on and fighting for Hardangerbrua. The Hardanger Bridge is a very good project. It's a bridge that will facilitate growth and positive development in Inner Hardanger. It is therefore also a socio-economic project, because it will provide a socio-economic benefit that exceeds the calculations made in the case-law. Now I'm so lucky that I come from a part of Hordaland that in 1994 was tied to the outside world using the North Hordlandsbrua. Before North Hordlandsbrua was built, there were also many negative views about the bridge. She was too expensive, she was too expensive, she could never be paid off, and it would also create great problems for the environment. The gloomy predictions haven't enabled. So today, the North Hordlandsbrua has been paid off, and it hasn't caused any negative effects on the environment in Osterfjord. Today it is difficult to find anyone who is opposed and who thinks it was wrong to build Nordhordlandsbrua. When it comes to the hold of Hardangerbrua, I also believe that it will evolve that way. When we see the warnings and the problem with the error of Hardangervidda, I also think there are gloomy predictions that will prove to be no problem at all. For the Progress Party, the most important thing is regardless of how to facilitate internal Hardanger bushing and growth. So it's more important to separate than to lose some wild shit on Hardangervidda. The only thing I can see as negative with this project is that one should thin the car list with tolls. Norway has a surplus on the state budget only for the current year of 316 billion kroner, and then it should be possible to finance a transport project, including Hardangerbrua, over the state budget without any need to withdraw tolls from the bill. Bilistane already pays more than enough in car-related charges. So it doesn't seem like we're getting multiples, but anyway, it's positive that the bridge is being built. So even if there are tolls, the toll collection will end one day – just as it did at the North Hordlandsbrua.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1453	Some may be surprised that a representative from Westfold, and with my dialect background, is taking the floor in this debate. But I have a past as a newspaper editor in Inner Hardanger, and I have on one day that this person wants to put me in the ranks of the congratulations. Already in my time in Hardanger, in the 1970s, over Hardangerfjord was a very topical issue – in a region that is more concerned with transportation than many other regions in this country. When the history of this project is once written, it will be a story of a strong local commitment that eventually led, despite setbacks and setbacks. The bigger is probably the joy today. But Hardangerbrua is – and is likely to be – a controversial project for many years. Now, when the project is realized, I'm not in any particular doubt that rv. 7 will become an even more important east–west link than the road is today. Nor am I in any particular doubt that the development of the bridge will result from requirements for the development and extension of the RV. 7 to a much better standard than the road has today. Another side of this project that I am also concerned with is the nutritional significance that a new connection over Hardangerfjorden will have. Wherever we come as businessmen in this country, we are met by demands for better roads, better transportation. The roads, the traffic, are of great nutritional importance, and the bridge over Hardangerfjord will certainly be of pleasure to business on both sides of Hardangervidda. But one day like this, it is also important to remember that the district and the Hordaland counties assume a very heavy financial responsibility in connection with this project. Questions can be asked about the cost estimates for the project, which run up to over NOK 2 billion. Questions may also be asked about the traffic calculations. And I would like to remind you that Hordaland takes a great responsibility, because exceedances are to be covered by a divided frame.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1467	As a representative of Hordaland, it is a great pleasure to stand here on the pulpit in the Stortinget today. It is a great day for Hardanger and for the whole of the West. This case is a good example of local mobilisation, clear prioritisation and good strategic work over time bearing fruit, and not least of not giving up in the first place. After Storting’s previous treatment, a new strategy and a new one began locally. Today, the Western region can really enjoy both the decision on Hardangerbrua and the decision on the Bergen programme. But I also want to mention that there are many challenges in other areas that remain for this beautiful, good, drifting and uphill region. Today shows the importance of local involvement and priority, but this will also be important in future issues relating to the Western region, which the Stortinge will certainly deal with. Like some others, I will be allowed to congratulate all of us who come from this region, and not least all of us here today. It's a big day for Hordaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1478	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1414]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1494	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each batch and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose to allow for the replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after the Council of State's inauguration. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - This is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1503	Let me start by thanking the Committee on Cooperation on Finnfast, and thanking for the cooperation with local and regional authorities, represented by the chairman in particular, but I would also like to thank the chairman and vice-chairman of Finnøy, whom I see is in place to listen to the case. After many releases, Finnfast is now ready for construction. Now Finnfast will come, and Finnøy and Talga will be free of charge. It will be desired by all parties. It has been a turbulence about this matter. The previous government promised several times to file the case, but it was constantly postponed. In the election campaign even the Bondevik II party, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Right, said that Finnfast-saka was completely clear, but it was not put forward. Then came the change of government, and we got a new offensive, red-green government. We're going to start working on getting this case done. Then we got complaints from the previous government parties that it was too late – while they themselves had been spending several years! But yet this government will be able to get this case up and down to decision today in four months, on 28 February. Why the Bondevik II party, I don't know. Right, Christian People's Party and Left ask in the setting that one assesses through different actions to contribute more money to the project. It told me as case spokesman that the case was not as clear as the previous government thought it was, as they themselves had no such proposal on Finnfast in the draft state budget for 2006. It also tells us that the parties are now in opposition and clearly have more money. But they should: the Bondevik II parties do not come forward with an alternative proposal for a decision. It's neat. The scheme adopted by the Stortinget in 2002, which was not realized by the previous government in the long period they set, is now realized after four months by a new, red-green government. The turbulence number two in this case goes on with the infrastructure size and protests against it. However, the majority of the Committee notes that the ‘finishings have contributed to the financing of Rennfast for the whole of Finnfast’. So, in the multiples, Finnfast is considered to be part of a larger infrastructure. At the same time, everyone in Stortinget who wants to know that the Finns have a significant impact on Rennfast’s first step. Some might then say that the people of Rennesøy who demonstrate are expressing lack of spirit of virtue or lack of solidarity. It's okay to mean it. But the committee has actually listened to the protests that have come, and has asked for follow-up from the Government and the bridesmaid on two points. One thing is to reduce the interest rate on the loan. There should now be good possibilities for that. The second is that you ask the Government to consider a faster payment of your holiday payoffs. Therefore, as a case spokesman, I ask that those who have protested take note of the positive will that has been shown by the majority of the population to listen to the protests that have been made, and that the result of this may lead to the Storting suggesting that the toll period be somewhat reduced. I am happy for this, and once again I want to congratulate Finnøy and Rogaland on a new project. Now is the time to wait - Finnfast is being built.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1524	This connection will provide the inhabitants of Finnøy Islands and Talga fixed road connections with Rennesøy and beyond with the mainland. The measure is a holiday settlement project, and Finnfast's funding is mainly based on tolls and alternative use of the ferry surcharge. The Toll Company and local authorities, in cooperation with the Swedish Road Administration, have worked on a financing solution that requires very small government promises. This makes it possible to achieve a faster realization of the project than would otherwise have been the case. Finnfast is an element of the ‘Ryphal Package’, which is a comprehensive strategy to address transport challenges in the Ryphal region. The project impact assessment was approved in 2001 and the regulatory plan was approved in 2003 in the municipality of Finnøy and in 2004 in the municipality of Rennesøy. The project will provide a larger employment and employment market, which will benefit industry in particular. The project governance framework is 530 million. 2006-kr. This provides a total financing need including a financial cost of 747 million. kr. The toll ratio is 80 pst. of the costs. The ordinary government funds make up approx. 3 pst. These 22 state million in the project are funds that Rogaland County has prioritised for the project in the action programme for other national pesticides in Rogaland. The project is not mentioned in the national transport plan, because it falls within the budget area of other national means, which are distributed by the state. There's a lot of local and regional outreach about the project. They take the majority of the costs themselves. This was particularly apparent during the hearing in the committee, which included: County Spokesperson Bergsaker did good for the connection. The financial plan provides for the extension of the toll collection at Sokn Toll Station for seven to eight months. Rennesø Municipality has protested against this extension. After an overall assessment, which includes, inter alia: emphasis has been placed on the fact that the inhabitants of the municipality of Finnøy have contributed to the financing of the Rennefast project since the opening of the link in 1992, in addition to the loss of their direct ferry service to Stavanger, the Directorate of Road has recommended that the extension of the toll period at Sokn toll station should provide a funding contribution of 65 million. kr. The Ministry of Transport has agreed on this. In the committee, we have also joined in. In this context, it is also important to note that, in total, Finnøy residents pay most of the costs, 512 million. kr, through a new and unmanned toll station. And here we're also going to notice that one of them is based on two-way entry at this bomb. Furthermore, advance collection of the ferries has been used for about three years after the project has been approved in Stortinget. It is added to backlog collection/tolls for 20 years. This is five years longer than a normal toll period. But the option is ferry in the future, so the choice here should be simple, as I see it. I myself come from an island municipality and know how important it is for the local population in general and for business in particular to expand the employment and labour market. I have also seen and experienced how such societies are being given new opportunities for development with new communications. I want to praise the county council and the municipalities that are behind this project. They take responsibility for communications that are respected. With a positive decision here today, as a populace, we have delivered what we promised in the election campaign, and I am proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1545	This has been an urgent matter within the Committee. It does not at all tell us how important it is for the majority of the Committee to have tolled through toll projects. The Progress Party thinks this is a good project – one of many good projects. Here I will allow myself to praise the Council of State, which has finally done something about the calculation rate. This is a project that actually shows that the calculation rate has an impact on the dietary benefit principle. Here's a project that goes from minus to plus relative to diet-benefit, and that's very interesting. The Progress Party also has alternative proposals here that the State should go more into and finance this type of project instead of charging users more costs through tolls. However, what has taken some of the attention in this debate is the new principle that the Storting is now adopting. It's an interesting principle, actually. I noticed what was said by the previous speaker, that the option for tolls on Finnfast was a ferry in the future. It tells how the majority view how to finance infrastructure in Norway. There are no alternatives, says the majority, to use tolls. That's interesting, because if it's going to follow us further when it comes to financing infrastructure, we know what we're waiting for. This new principle, I think, is interesting. We can go back to the previous case, where a majority of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre stressed that the collection will cease and the toll station will be closed once the project has been paid down. So this principle is established by the majority in the previous case. So it's interesting to note former state councillor Terje Moe Gustavsen who in 2001 said about toll exceedances in the transport debate. Moe Gustavsen said at the time: ‘We need to be more aware that when we deal with these questions, we are literally dealing with the people’s money. They must be handled in such a way as to ensure that they are used for the project, that the recovery period is observed, that they are at all sure to receive the goods for which they are paid.» The current state council, Terje Moe Gustavsen, said at the same time that it is «not applicable to finance Finnfast with Rennfast» – Rennfast is not to be paid with Finnfast. There are a lot of that kind of statements at that time. Then my question becomes: Is it so strange that people have lost confidence in the politicians? First of all, we see that there is an urgent need in the Stortinget, where the committee is almost not allowed to deal with the matter. Because you know that Rennfast has been paid down on 1 March, you have to drum through this. Where there is uncertainty as to the legality of the decision, it shall continue to be trodden through. I ask the question again: Is it strange that most people lose confidence in politicians? So one thing that also creates conflict between communities, one has to trump through. I think this case had deserved a better treatment. Here, after all, it's all beyond what's toll, talk about a minimum effort by the state to get away from introducing these kind of new principles. There is a minimal effort by the state to remove the ongoing local conflict. The majority will continue to trump it through as quickly as possible to maximise conflict. I record that there are forces on the move to get this case filed for ESA. It shall accompany the party of progress with the eyes of the argus. But I must also be allowed to say that it is an interesting principle that is established here today, when it is said that because people from Finnøy have driven through the Rennfastbom station, Rennfast is now going to be involved in financing the mainland connection for Finnøy. That's interesting, because then I know that when I'm going to come forward with a proposal in Stortinget the day the bombing around Oslo is removed, I'll say there's a lot of drones that have run through this bombing here, so I want to continue it so that I can build some roads in Trondelag! It's the exact same principle that's being established here now. I think that's very interesting. I will deal with the suggestions in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1581	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1584	This is a happy day for people on Finnøy. Finnfast is part of a larger whole to connect the islands of Ryfylke better. A transport plan for this purpose was approved almost 20 years ago. As is well known to many islands, the group consists of boat and ferry-based communication. Rennesø municipality with Rennfast came first. Today, the municipality of Finnøy and some of the islands are on their way. In time, many will say. It will be a milestone for the development of society in a municipality that, until those degrees, has been based on boat connections to and from the outside world. Many people in central Europe cannot fully imagine that one should not be able to travel when one wants to, that one does not have alternatives, or that one is excluded from the outside world from ten to eleven in the evening until the next morning. In the weekends, the ferries stop going even earlier. That is why it is a milestone in the region and in the fulfilment of the old dream of the transport plan for Ryfylke represents. In toll cases, the Right attaches great importance to local and regional decisions and wishes. Finnø Municipality strongly wants this project and the setup behind it. So does Rogaland County. The main principle behind toll projects in Norway is that they are wanted locally. That is also the case in this project. The neighbouring municipality of Rennesøy is also in favour of the project, but does not want to extend the collection of the Rennesfast connection, which is otherwise soon paid off – long in advance. We've noticed this resistance and we understand it. However, there is no doubt that the toll period for Rennfast had been another year if not the ferry of the finn island bow from Judaberg to Stavanger had been cancelled in connection with the establishment of the Rennfast in its time. This, therefore, becomes a reasonable balance in many ways, where we in the Right have fallen on the ministry's conclusion in the evaluation of this overall. The daily commuters from Rennesøy should also be screened in these months, and this will include, among other things. the rest of us who travel on the E39, who are being charged. And we have, among other things, the Finnish Isle to thank for the fast down payment period. The right has joined the majority comment on optimising the interest burden on the loan portfolio. Today's favourable interest rates can significantly reduce the extra collection time for Rennfast. We have also pointed out, together with the committee majority, that a different and more correct structure for the payment of the ferry release funds can be briefly further reduced to this period. The right has also pointed out the unreasonable fact that the state's loan to Rennfast cannot be continued, all the time the race-fixed project is introduced as a prerequisite for Finnfast. The state acts here as an untimely cremator and not as a cooperative partner for a population taking on a huge economic boost. On the right, it is inconceivable that the Ministry does not rely on its own office, the State Road Service, in its traffic assessments, but chooses to use an external consultant's estimate of traffic. All of these elements together give a much smaller extension of the collection period for Rennfast, if any. But all in all, we have confidence that the department looks into all these conditions and makes Finnfast the happy event it is, also for the neighbors. Then I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that the Right wants to vote in favour of the Procedural Party's proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1605	Let me begin by stating that the Christian People's Party is very pleased that the Stortinget today adopts the development of the mainland connection for Finnøy. None of us doubt that this is an important step for the community of Finnøy, and also for the whole region and for the country. Every island municipality depends on good communication with the mainland. This project also provides Finnøy and Talgä ferries free of charge and a 24-hour connection with the mainland via the Rennes Island connection. It will provide good facilities for all who live on the islands, and commuters will have shorter travel time and an enlarged labour market. The aim is also to contribute to the competitiveness of the industry in the area. The specific aquaculture industry emphasises the importance of the project. So we see that the project appears to be a good regional policy tool: it facilitates continued widespread settlement along the coast. Finnfast is part of the Ryfylkepaket, which is a comprehensive strategy to address the transport challenges in the Ryfylkeregion. The project has a long history, and it's long-lasting. With regard to the financing facility for the Finnfast project, a broad political settlement at county level has been established. The Toll Company and local authorities, in cooperation with the Swedish Road Administration, have developed a financing solution with small ordinary government appropriations. This makes it possible to achieve a faster realization of the project than would otherwise have been the case. Many people probably want the state to have contributed a greater share, and of course I have a full understanding of that. But most of us realize that we have to deal with reality. We see that the project would not be feasible if state full funding were to be used – at least not within a reasonable time. This is not only true of the Finnfast project, but of the thematic nature of most transport debates. However, the overall debate will be re-examined when the revision of the national transport plan takes place in 2009. It is only the Progress Party that appears to be able to operate with ‘double-booking’. They were part of the majority who adopted the national transport plan for the current metropolitan period, at the same time setting out in all transport cases as if the agreed framework did not exist. The head of the Dagbladet Sunday 26 February, according to my knowledge, takes the party on the grain. I quote: ‘Frp is the only seducer on the track again. From the opposition, the lot may practice its special practice of sectoralising the policy. They can choose the popular position and move towards the unpopular, without having to defend the whole of their policies. [[...]] Even if it does not work together, economically, it is effective.’ It may be appropriate to ask the Progress Party the following question: When would Finnøy have got its mainland link if they were to wait for state full funding in accordance with the majority framework in the NTP that the Progress Party has agreed to vote for here in the Stortinget? The funding of Finnfast is therefore based on tolls, alternative use of ferry subsidies and state resources. Tolls and alternative use of ferries are all essential from the financing. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the scheme is based on local and regional decisions. It has broad political outreach at state level, but at the same time we know that parts of the funding plan are controversial. In particular, Rennesø Municipality has problems with continuing the bombing on Sokn for eight months to help finance the Finnfast project. Now, however, you've already got an interest rate of 1 pst. lower than that taken into account in the proposition. This means that there is already some progress in reducing the use of tolls on Sokn. The Christian People's Party, together with the Right and Left, has requested in a comment in the setting that the ministry also assesses other possibilities for further decline. Maybe you can end up with not continuing the toll collection on Sokn. In that case it would be a joyous day also for the river island. Finally, I would like to say that the Christian People's Party also supports minority motion No. 3 from the Progress Party in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1629	This is a historic day for Finnøy Municipality, for Ryfylke and for Rogaland. The inhabitants of the islands of Finnøy and Tallowe are now connected to the mainland after the decision. It means a whole new time for people in the municipality. There are completely different and new opportunities for young people who have taken training and are considering moving home to Finnøy. Constantly, there is optimism for agriculture and the green sector, for agriculture, tourism and a vitally advanced school. The project also provides opportunities for others who would like to bus themselves more rurally, to move away from the toy in a completely different way. In this way Finnfast can also mean better space on a North-Jear press. Finnfast is an extraordinary project. Costs for users are going to be extraordinarily high. Traffic numbers are uncertain. Tolls for the Finn Island arc may be exceptional for a long time, at least 20 years instead of 15 years. The project is locally and regionally initiated. It's part of the Ryfylke Transport Plan, signed in Rogaland County as far back as 1987. Funding has been a difficult matter and has gradually created some two neighbouring municipalities between them. The main question is whether you can charge a toll to Finnfast from Rennfast. It's a center party. A broad majority in Rogaland County has taken this principle into account. The government has followed up. For my part, my first question in Stortinget's question-time focused on the financing of Rennfast. It was November 1993. The government had recently said no to the county guarantee for loans to the Sole's ferry terminal. I thought it was unimaginable. Such a guarantee would have provided cheaper loans and thus a shorter repayment period. Dwelling municipal minister Gunnar Berge promised a new assessment and followed shortly after with a yes. The regulations in the Stortinget's position from 8 December 1988 on the mainland link for Rennesøy have been amended several times in the course of the race. The size added to base 7 pst. Annual increase in fares and tolls by 2008. When 54 kroner in 1987 have been 90 kroner in 2006, when passengers have passed free for several years now, when Rennfast is paid down almost two years before the expected time, and when the tolls the Finn Island Arc has paid net so far to Rennfast, is estimated to be about 90 million. kr, it may be justified that the Sokn boom is available for a few months to claim 65 million. kr for part-financing of Finnfast. But let me make it very clear: the center party suggested that the bomb should be removed immediately the 65 million. kr is claimed! The central party otherwise believes that the state should take a greater part of the responsibility for the infrastructure in this country. Rogaland is a good example of how the inhabitants take an unreasonably high cost of ownership. 80 pst. road projects are now toll-financed - an unhigh-valued property. The alternative would still be a full stop. The centre party has committed itself strongly to more government means of transportation. We are very pleased with Soria Moria, who announces a review of today's budgeting for a possible separation between operations and long-term investments. We also look forward to the launch of alert project funding. In future projects, an inconceivable additional cost in the form of costly borrowings is avoided. Otherwise, I remember today's government adding 460 million in its first budget. kr more than Bondevik II. It's big, especially compared to the fact that over the last four years, the Progress Party has had only five million in the last four years. kr more. As when Rennfast was signed 18 years ago, there is room for improvement in the financing arrangement that is being agreed today. I ask the State Council to pay extra attention to the request for a speedy payment of the fee waiver funds. A positive assessment during the spring means listening both to Rennesøy and to the Transport Committee. There will be a reduced toll period in Rennfast.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1648	This is an important and happy day for Finn Island, and it is an important and happy day for Rogaland. This is a large project that provides ferry-free continental connections for large parts of the municipality of an option with relatively low population. On Finn Island lives half a million people in the country. Three-quarters of the Rogaland population is on Finn Island. Nevertheless, this is a valuable project and a useful project that will have positive ring-effects far beyond the boundaries of the municipality and fully defends the means that will now be used for this project. Finnfast will help bind Rogaland closer together. It will give more flexibility to those who live on Finnøy, and to those who visit Finnøy. It will make everyday life easier for commuters and expand their labour market. In particular, the Finnish economy will become more competitive when Finnfast is finished. Finnfast is part of the Ryfylke package, which is a comprehensive strategy to address the transport challenges in the Ryfylke. It is important to underline in a day like this that new important projects are on the move. Rogaland is a strong-growth state. In such a state, imbalances between the different parts of the county can easily occur. Active policies are needed to avoid this. Transport and infrastructure are the key in this way. That's why the Left Heart supports Finnfast, both locally, regionally and centrally. Locally, we have been involved in the funding plan that has received broad support in the county. It has been necessary to be creative and go untraditional ways to realize this project. The alternative that the Advance Party has would mean that Finnfast had not been realised. It's the worst of all solutions. Centrally, we have also pressed for this project. With the Left in the management of the Ministry of Transport, we could be a link between those who were engaged locally and those who were primary suppliers. The left has helped to put in place several important assumptions for the solution we have today, including: the possibility of using holiday-relieving agents. There was one thing that had been working on for many years and under several governments, and that was solved while Torild Skogsholm was Minister of Transport. It was one of the keys to the Finnfast project. We have also agreed to open up the extension of the toll collection on Rennesøy. It has been a prerequisite for continuing to work on this project. But it has always been a goal for the Left to help minimize that extension. In this context, I refer to the setting, where the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left ask the Government to try to limit the collection by evaluating various alternative ways that can contribute to this. A large majority of them ask the Government to consider speeding up the payment of holiday-relief funds. Here, there's room for a sharp reduction that can minimize the extra toll period. It's important to establish after you've had a period when some people have said that the bomb will never disappear, that it will. It'll disappear. It'll be gone in a short time. I understand the dissatisfaction on Rennesøy, and I am therefore concerned that there will be a quick clarification of the request that goes to the Government. I hope that the Council of State can today contribute to such clarification and clarify whether she is behind the thought that is being suggested, namely a faster payment of holiday-relief funds. Today, the Council of State has an article in Stavanger Aftenblad, where she writes «Final Finnfast». There is not a single word sacrificed to this moment, and it is a key to moving on and finding a solution to what is disputed locally. The noise is understandable, but it should not interfere with what is the main point today. This is a day of joy, Finnfast is to be realized. It's important for Finnøy, and it's important for Rogaland. The left will also support the proposal of the Progress Party No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1677	The size is today invited to make a crucial decision for Finnøy and for all of the Ryfylke in a matter that has been in process for a long time. It has been working on plans for a fixed road link between Finnøy and Rennesøy since the 1980s, especially in connection with the work of the Ryfylke Transport Plan, which was approved in 1987. The transport plan included a network of bridges and tunnels linking several of the Finnøy municipalities to Rennesøy and further to the mainland through the mainland connection to Rennesøy, which was opened for traffic in 1992. So now Finnfast is the next one. The project will provide the inhabitants of Finnøy and Talgäfer free road connections with Rennesøy and beyond with the mainland. Finnfast will provide commuters with shorter travel time and an expanded labour market. For the industry in the area, the project will contribute to increasing competitiveness and, in particular, the aquaculture industry emphasises the importance of the project. The project is strongly desired locally, and I know I have many with me when I express joy that the committee has joined the Government's proposal to implement the Finnfast project. The steering frame is estimated to be 530 million. kr. The cost of capital included in the advance is the total financing need of about 747 million. kr. Funding is based on tolls, alternative use of ferry charges – both state and county – and state resources. Tolls and alternative use of ferry charges make everything important of funding. The tolling period is estimated to be 20 years in total with an expropriation charge. In addition, there will be a period of about three years with advance collection in Søndre Finnøyle. In addition, funds have been inserted for planning from a previous pre-requisition in the same relationship. The main rule for toll collection is that the recovery period shall be a maximum of 15 years. For the holiday termination project, the option is to actually pay tolls in the form of a ferry ticket as long as the connection is maintained. There has been a strong local desire to replace this "permanent" payment on the ferry with a time-limited toll payment. The government believes that an extension of the collection period can be accepted for Finnfast. I am pleased that the Committee also agrees to this. The Finnfast financing plan implies that the collection at Sokn Toll Station will continue for seven to eight months longer than foreseen. I am well aware that this has an important role to play locally, and that questions have been asked about whether this is legal. It has been a long-term and holistic strategy to establish an infrastructure network with free connection to a number of islands in the Gulf. Finnfast is part of this network, and the collection at Sokn Toll Station is directly linked to the financing of this related network. In addition, the government has stressed that the inhabitants of Finnøy Municipality, against their will, had the ferry connection Judaberg-Stavanger, and thus contributed to the financing of Rennfast in a range that far exceeds the income of Sokn toll station, and that it is only a short period of time. In any case, the collection will be higher than the original of the Stortinget's management of the 1988 Rennfast project. I have noticed that the Committee asks the Government to assess the speedy payment of the holiday payoff funds in order to achieve a reduced toll period for Rennfast. This is a fundamental question that I will consider in connection with the case of the principle of toll financing, and I will return with it to Stortinget later.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1698	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1701	It is a great and important day for the region that is affected here. I want to start by giving tribute to the Government for putting this matter quickly and neatly ahead of the Storting and facilitating a good and quick implementation. The Christian People's Party is committed to following up local decisions at national level. We are pleased that the Government has promoted the proposition, so that today we can have the big decision on the development and financing of Finnfast that we need to move on. The Council of State was now relatively buttoned in its statement on the issue of the financing solution addressed in the committee setting. Together with the Right and Left, in the Christian People's Party, we have sat down to find any improvements in the financing plan promoted by the Government. We have suggested some solutions in the vote, and it also seems that there are good opportunities for us to avoid extending the toll period on Rennesøy by eight months if the Government follows the request in the vote, and also the additional possibilities pointed out by the previous government parties. We trust the Council of State to follow up on this, and hope she succeeds in bringing about all sorts of improvements. We want us to get the mainland connection to Finnøy realized as quickly as possible, in a way that makes the most possible look worth the solution that comes. I cannot fail to note that the minority here today is promoting proposals for Finnfast's state full funding. It sounds good – it sounds tempting with 100 pst. State funding – but if we had all put ourselves on that line in such projects, it would take many years before Finnfast and other similar projects were realised. In this way I think that Stavanger Aftenblad had a striking headline in Friday's edition of his newspaper that this would actually give full knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1710	There are many here who think this is a great day. It's good to see that we have a green light to implement an important transport project, and we're turning each other over in praiseworthy mention of the work that's finished in the lead. For me, it is a bit of a pleasure to give gifts that the recipient himself has to pay. Unfortunately, the Finnfast project is an example of the fact that the State will not take its responsibility to fully finance infrastructure development in this country, and it is incomprehensible, no matter what the representative Højbräten says, that it cannot be a state responsibility in a situation where the country has DKK 1 400 billion invested in foreign business. I admire the Finnfast community, but I am strongly critical of the arrogant way in which the majority of the population and the Government implement this. It is an obvious breach of the authorities' promises when the users of Rennfast still have to pay tolls after the Rennfast project has been paid down. The inhabitants of Rennesøy have every reason to be cursed when they find that the Government and the majority of the population are breaking contracts, and therefore the inhabitants still have to pay tolls for something that would have been free. The rapporteur says that the Finnøy bow has paid to run through Rennfast, and that it is therefore fair and reasonable that the Rennesø bow has to pay for Finnfast to be implemented. It's as logical in my mind as saying that because I'm going through the tolling in Oslo, the Oslo people are going to be in and pay for the road project on the Jären. The case rapporteur will push away such objections by pointing out that Finnfast and Rennfast are part of the same transport project, but it knows Stortinget, and the Government knows that there is a great deal of controversy about it. It is rare for a municipality to consider going to court with the state because of a toll project, and it is also rare for a full-number municipal government to oppose this. So there are none of the parties in this room who have the support of their local representatives in this case. A responsible treatment in Stortinget would say that such uncertainties were clarified, but rather than making the necessary clarifications, the Government chooses to use raw power. The case is forced through without taking the legal objections into consideration. Now someone is trying to create the impression that a person is trying to meet the objections by shortening the extension of the toll period. But the principal issues around this, namely that the state is breaking an agreement to remove a toll station, and that it is highly questionable whether it is lawful to continue the toll operation, yes, they are jumping over, and to their defense, the Minister of Transport stamps all the toll opponents in Rogaland as unsoldary, as she did during a visit to Rogaland last week. It is a use of words that is mockery and provocation and not least abuse of the word solidarity. The toll drive on the Sokn is already intended to be protected, even if it is still in operation. Thus, it will stand forever as a symbol — a symbol of political betrayal: agreements that are broken, election commitments that are broken, and not least the irresponsibility of the state in the financing of road investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1721	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1414]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1729	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1 to 4. Before we go to voting, the President will propose that it be voted on in case No. 2 first, so before case No. 1st@item: inlistbox That would give a more logical order, since the minority proposal in case No. 2 is a primary position in relation to the voting themes in case No. 1st@item: inlistbox – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1739	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that a binding referendum is held in Bergen on the construction of the urban railway and the use of toll financing before the Stortinget takes a decision on these issues in the Bergen programme. The size requires, if necessary, State advance in order to ensure propulsion in the other project areas within the Bergen programme.»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1763	In the course of the debate, Ms Sortevik presented eight proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1840	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The cancellation consents to the construction of Hardangerbrua as explained in St.prp. [[2005-2006]] No 2
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1872	During the debate Per Sandberg put forward three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-28.ana.ud1331e1904	Then, alternatively, between the setting and the proposals, no. 1 and 2.
