ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19-lower.ana.ud1316e37	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19-lower.ana.ud1316e44	There is a broad majority in the Committee, all parties with the exception of the Progress Party, who agree with the Government’s proposal on amendments to the Child Protection Act and the Social Services Act as regards the rules of procedure for the protection of children and social affairs. The proposal, which is available, is the result of a longer work started by the previous government, among others. by setting up a county committee to investigate and propose efficiency-enhancing and cost-saving simplifications in the county planning system, including proposals for legislative changes. Research and evaluation have shown that the county system ensures legal certainty in a very good way, but at the same time the same research shows that the scheme is seizing large economic and, in part, scarce human resources, and that unreasonable lengths of proceedings can be very burdensome for children and parents who are initially very vulnerable in the situation. There are, therefore, difficult balances to be made when procedural rules in this field are to be dropped, the balance between legal certainty, resource scarcity and lengthy procedural times, which have adverse consequences for individuals. There are differing views on these considerations, which were also found during the consultation round on the position of the County Committee. The Committee has also noted that the members themselves have been critical of some of the Committee's proposals and that the Ministry has taken this criticism into account in its legislative proposal, which the Committee has endorsed. As regards the main principles of procedure, the majority of the Committee agrees that the proceedings in the counties should be based on the procedural principles laid down in the new dispute law. This includes, inter alia: proportionality between what is to be determined and the resources deployed, as well as a focused case preparation and active case management by the facilitator. The majority emphasise that both parties are given a real opportunity to be heard and that the legal certainty of the child is ensured by hearing the child during the examination. The majority have also taken note of the reasons for its decision as a judge. The majority of the Committee agrees with the proposal that the denominator should normally consist of three members, that, in addition to a chairman, there should be one expert member and one member of the board, and that the denominator may be extended to five if the complexity of the matter so requires. The majority also subscribe to the proposal that the consent of the parties is a prerequisite for the decision of the facilitator alone. The majority of the Committee is concerned that a matter of taking care must take account of the child’s need to maintain good relations where they exist and is therefore satisfied that the parties are also granted status to non-parents in matters of association. The majority agree that today’s practice should be limited somewhat, but would stress that it should not be at the expense of the child’s ability to maintain lasting relations. The majority of the Committee points out that the new rules refer to and are based largely on the dispute law and therefore agree that it is not appropriate to put the new rules of procedure for the county councils in place in full before the entry into force of the new dispute law in 2008. However, the majority believe that it is desirable to bring some provisions into force before the others, and therefore promote proposals in line with this. With this, I recommend the majority position of the committee and assume that the minority will present its proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19-lower.ana.ud1316e72	The issue under consideration today is therefore the proposal for a new chapter 7 of the Children’s Protection Services Act – on county council members, since most of the issues dealt with there are, in fact, child protection matters, and, in all material terms, takeovers in some form. The Progress Party does not want special mentions to be given to such cases, but would therefore like to see matters currently dealt with in the Chamber transferred to the courts and dealt with in accordance with Chapter 36 of the Law on Disputes. Why does the Progress Party, as the only party, want to wind up the counties? The reasons are several, and the problem is complex. This is not at all a populist jeippo, but a very thoughtful position that the Progress Party has had since the introduction of the county councils. It is primarily about legal certainty, or lack of it, in order to be more accurate. It turns out that in the vast majority of cases that have been through the county — about 80 pst. – has followed the setting of the local child protection system. The child protection system has to express itself in the cases used professionals who have had strong ties to the municipalities. We're afraid of the child's legal certainty, and we're afraid of parents' legal certainty. The Progress Party wants to vote against the new chapter. I'm taking up our proposal in the same sling. However, when this is said, it is important for us to comment on the content of the legislative amendment. Effectiveness and cost-saving measures in the public sector are not the Progress Party against, by no means. But when you talk about resource saving in the proceedings, we are concerned. There may soon be a threat to legal certainty, and in particular to this child, who can speak little of his or her own case. The Progress Party will also warn against taking decisions on its own. We don't want to put the leader in a bad light, but a single person's assessment can have major consequences for the current child for the rest of his life. We don't want a child's future to depend on a head of state. The progression party has always focused on the child’s good relationship with the biological family, even when biological parents are unable to care for the child. We know that very often other biological families have set up for the child where parents have not been able to take this responsibility – but before child protection has intervened. It therefore appears unreasonable to the Progress Party that these do not have party rights in such cases. It might also be interesting to hear why the child does not have the right to a lawyer or an assistant lawyer. There is no doubt that this is the case with the child, and who will ensure that the Convention on the Rights of the Child is complied with and that the child's rights are respected? The same applies when appointing a professional, the child should have his/her own spokesperson. It appears that a simpler form has been put in place with regard to the possibility of appeals against decisions, but at the same time the parties concerned are not given the right to free legal aid to any particular extent. We have to remember that not everyone has lawyers paid by the municipality, so that means a substantial cost for the private party. Not everyone has the economy to pursue a case, and this too is an aspect you have to take with you. Finally, in the case of emergency cases where urgent action is needed, the Progress Party will recall that Articles 3, 8, 9 and 12 of the Children’s Convention must always be complied with. This means that action should always be for the best of the child. The child’s right to identity shall always be respected, parental separation shall not be unnecessary and the child has the right to express his or her own opinion. In too many cases with which I have been associated, one or more of these points have not been taken into account, either in emergencies or in cases of full mention. The hope of the Progress Party is to gradually reduce the use of county council members, to work preventively, to provide assistance in child protection matters at a much earlier time than today, and to help both children and families at home. I have thus taken up our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19-lower.ana.ud1316e95	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has drawn up the proposal to which she referred. No more people have asked for the floor. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19-lower.ana.ud1316e110	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19-lower.ana.ud1316e118	During the debate, Mr S. Woldseth put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Act No 17 July 1992 100 on child protection services is amended as follows:Section 7-1 is replaced by the following:Cases under this Act are dealt with in accordance with the rules of the Arbitration Act Chapter 36.Chapter 7 is replaced by the following:Chapter 7 Rules of Procedure §7-2 until 7-5 is deleted.’ The President will first vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19-lower.ana.ud1316e997	The progress party has announced that they will vote against the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19-lower.ana.ud1316e1010	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Advance Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19-lower.ana.ud1316e1024	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-10-19-lower.ana.ud1316e1035	There is no record. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
