ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-2.ana.ud600e34	I would like to thank the interpellant who focuses on this important topic we are now discussing. I want to take a little professional starting point, because I have been working as a midwife for several years on sexual assaults both in maternity care and in the school health service. There have been some kicks to some representatives from SV here. I think that's very unfair. Many of the good measures that the Council of State and others have been involved in here today were proposed by the Swedish authorities during the previous enlargement period, including in particular: I, the undersigned, propose to the Committee. This concerns Barna's house, new funding for the incest centers, new funding for crisis centres and incest phones. The mapping that many now look forward to was also proposed by SV during the previous period. We are very concerned about this, and it is clear that we need to put in place better skills and more targeted measures for children who are victims of abuse. It is quite right that the interpellant here points out that this is underreporting with boys and men who are sexually assaulted. One of the reasons many people have been faced with is that the threshold for admitting sexual assault is much higher for men and for boys. It's also true, as many people have said, that it's more taboo to talk about women who overtake. But what I really disagree with is that we have a comprehensive aid and support device for those who have been sexually assaulted. There are too few support centres for incest around Norway. The ‘right to necessary health care’ of the Municipal Health Act is currently the basis for the assistance and treatment of those who have been subjected to sexual abuse, but there are very few municipalities with preparedness and response. There are also very many municipalities that do not support the incest centres because they believe that this is not a problem for them. We also know that about the crisis centres. There are many municipalities that do not support this financially despite the fact that we now have a new funding scheme in place. Local authorities have difficulties in financing their statutory tasks, so SV believes that it is not realistic to get an offer across the country if these centres are not also legalised, just as we have proposed in the case of crisis centres. Incest centres are a low-threshold service that is targeted and well targeted. The centres depend on the good economy, which I have been in for, so that they can put in place a predictable operation and also have the opportunity to employ qualified personnel. Incest centres are established to a lesser extent than crisis centres; they are less known, more taboo, and, as I said, they are supported by fewer municipalities. SV proposed to set up a 24-hour, national and free emergency telephone for incestants during the previous period and is pleased that this is now in place, as the Council of State has pointed out. Sexual assault is a problem area where knowledge is largely lacking, and there is considerable darkness. We need to strengthen the different education in this area. Personnel working at school, in kindergartens, in health centres and in health care must get this into their education. Too many children, both girls and boys, have been overlooked throughout growth despite the fact that they show in many different ways that they have been abused. These children are going to fail by the auxiliaries. I have experienced several times as a midwife that I was the first one to ask the question whether they had been subjected to an assault, and I was the first one they told in maternity care. This is too bad. Many of those I've worked with, both children and adults, have had very poor quality of life, and many of them are disabled at a young age. I believe the most important thing now is to put in place Barna's house, who signed with the representative None Marte Thorkildsen proposed in the previous period. The house of children is a new model of questioning and treatment for children who have been subjected to violence and sexual assault. Experience from other countries shows that this is a good model to work for. This leads to several judges, some of whom have also been involved. In fact, I believe that we need to have a health card box, both for pregnant women and for all children in this country, asking if you have been subjected to abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-2.ana.ud600e53	I would also like to thank the interpellant for taking up an important and partly neglected theme, sexual assault on boys. It's a myth that only girls are sexually abused. The image of the dangerous father has dominated our portrayals of sexual abuse against children. Resurrections per employee Today, it is clear that men are in the main role of sexual abuse directed at children of both sexes, as are female offenders. It is also important to stress that sexual abuse against children and minors occurs more often outside the home than in the home. More and more men dare to tell about how they have been abused by men and women in child or youth wounds. It may be particularly difficult for boys and men to reveal that they have been sexually abused, as several of the speakers have been here today. Research until now shows that one in seven boys is exposed to sexual assault. They say that they have had to perform sexual services for older children or adults, or that they may have been selected. The Bondevik II government launched a collective plan against sexual and physical abuse against children. The plan has four main objectives: to prevent abuse, to detect abuse, to provide adequate assistance and treatment and to increase the competence of auxiliaries in the event of such abuse. Prevention has been given considerable space both in this plan and in the action plan Violence in close relations. Selected in close relationships shall be visible and prevented from being affected by changes in behaviour. It's a win, but it's a win. that it is necessary to give full attention to sexual and physical abuses and harms in general in the population after being exposed to violence in close relationships, both in order to prevent adults from engaging in criminal activity and to increase awareness among adults, so as to prevent others from engaging in criminal activity. I am pleased that the Government is following up this important work. In the plan against sexual abuse, one in particular says: that it is important to prevent physical punishment and selected in the mission in order to prevent the more severely selected child being subjected to. Parental guidance is a prevention measure that provides support for parents in the care and mission roles and incentives to counter the development of negative patterns of action and psychosocial problems in children and young people. The main task of child protection is to provide assistance and support to children, young people and families in difficult situations. Child protection shall provide a guarantee that all children and young people are guaranteed care, security and development facilities. Child protection shall protect children from care failure and shall prevent children from suffering from physical and mental trauma. There may be a need to increase skills in the child protection service and to make the service more effective than it is today. Some child protection services lack experience in assault cases and family choice. The Child Protection Service will be able to assist in difficult family elections and abuses by teams within the child, youth and family life. The men's offer of ADÁM at the Church's Resource Centre against Violence and Sexual Abuse has a conversation group for men who have experienced abuse of children's and school homes. The group offer allows participants to share their experiences and experience similar support from others. ADÁM is an offer for men, driven by human professionals with relevant education. This is a proposal that I hope the Government will contribute to further development. Sexual assault is a serious and sometimes hidden social problem. Being subjected to sexual assault has great consequences for those who become victims, and it affects, among other things. individual health, self-confidence, safety and quality of life. Sexual abuse concerns us all, whether we are parents, politicians, auxiliaries, or voluntary organizations, or fellow human beings. We have a common responsibility to help and protect them, whether they are women, men, girls, boys, ethnic Norwegians or people with a minority ethnic background. We need to strengthen our ability to see and act. We have a special responsibility to prevent children from being harmed – damage that can affect their health, quality of life and living conditions as adults.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-2.ana.ud600e79	Sexual assault occurs both girls and boys. The centre party believes that the interpellant addresses an important issue, namely, that the support device we have can be seen to a large extent to be adapted to women who have been subjected to sexual abuse as children. Men who have been subjected to such abuse do not have the same supply, according to the interpellant. I also want to say that the post of the representative, Skei Grande, challenges us, because she talks about a woman who attacks both when it comes to sexual abuse and when it comes to power. Obviously, there is no usual diet in the social debate. If the description of the treatment situation provided by the representative Skei Grande is correct, is there any reason to ask the following questions: Is it such that the law or guidelines discriminate between men and women? I am not aware of any such discrimination, so it is natural to grasp what is also spent most time by the interpellant, namely what is involved in the provision of treatment. There is reason to see whether there is sufficient expertise in the auxiliaries in the matter of men and abuse, and whether there may be some reason why fewer men seek out the auxiliaries. Likely, both the inter-pellant and the state councils point to the main reason why no more men seek help, namely that it does not match the current perception of the human role. So we're facing a two-part problem, both that the treatment supply for men who have been abused is not good enough, and that probably too few men are looking for help. On the centre side of the party, we're busy securing everyone who searches for the auxiliaries shorter or longer time for a sexual assault, the help they need, whether the victim is a woman or a man, and no matter where in the country a cage. If it is the case that men who have been assaulted do not seek the assistance needed, it must be important to strengthen the information work. It is important that the information work for young people in schools, leisure clubs, sports and other areas where young people meet is visible. At any rate, we are concerned about and pleased that the Council of State is addressing these important issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-2.ana.ud600e92	There has been talk in the debate about something that is sometimes in the Storting, that you try to say who has been the best. I felt that the debate before the break had an existing intensity, for which both the inter-pellant and the Council of State should have great honor and honor. Since we've had a break, I would like to remind you that the core point of the representative, Skei Grande, was that we are emotionally faced with three challenges at the same time: first of all, being a victim – no matter what kind of victim you are – and then that a man is a victim of a woman, and that woman is the mother of a man. There you have the other two themes at the same time. The representative Skei Grande has met a person who has been in that situation. We've heard the story, and I'm not going to take it any further than it was. But I think she got the existing dimension in a very good way. I think it's very important in a debate in Stortinget to keep it there, only we can get that consciousness in place in those places where we have people who can actually see and do something. When I, like the representative Skei Grande, want to ask the Council of State to look at whether she wants to make an action plan, it is not to make it one of the policy exercises in explanation, but that the good action plan can simply be a place to gather a lot of good energy – and a little money, but perhaps first and foremost targeted use of money and targeted use of people. I, like the representative Skei Grande, would like to refer to the cooperation that I believe the Minister for Children and Gender Equality can have with both the Minister for Health and Welfare and the Minister for Justice. I know that kind of cooperation myself, when you go close to the inside – to say it like that. I have been involved in previous roles in my life in connection with trafficking and violence in close relationships. The heaviest thing is not to have the collection and collect the money, even if it's a demanding exercise. The heaviest thing is when you challenge – let's call it – professional and administrative cultures. To do that as a politician I think the ombudsman role is worthy of us. I interpreted both the inter-pellant's posts and the Council's response there to the fact that they are willing to enter that role. I think that the Council of State should have honor and honor to really deal with the theme in the way she has done. The theme is very easy to explain. I am also pleased that it is now beginning to become female participants, because if the debate had been about violence in close relations, someone would have asked where it had become of all the male participants – there were eventually some male participants in that debate as well. There's something about the Storting, such a large hall, being able to draw close to something that's insanely difficult. Let's take a little example, which has nothing to do with the example of the interpellant, but which still affects the theme. TV 2 had a documenter the other day about a young boy who had been sexually abused by a man, a principal, who led to a rather scrupulous case-law. He was disabled, and only the review tells you how many explanation mechanisms you also meet in people you should have faith in, whether it's teachers, health professionals or anything else. I support the interpellation and think there are excellent measures that the Council of State indicated that she would do something for herself. Could she bring something that systematizes it, I think it could bring the world a step forward for them. We know that we are quite good in Norway when we dare be so close to difficult things, and when we also dare rely so much on people that we raise it. It's at one of the moments we can get something into Norwegian politics. It's a good thing we can do it with the weight of having a party-political competition, not in the meaning of who's worst, but how we can actually encourage each other to make good efforts. I basically took the word just to encourage it. I think that the basic tone that was put between interpellant and state council was of the more golden moments in this hall. I've had someone. I think it's important to say that, because it's a demanding topic that's been raised. Challenge taboos require a lot more than the words we can put back here. But that we can put some words here, at least means something to some people affected. I believe for my part that when there is some political energy around this, there will also be some good actions, many small and important steps. One of the small and important steps that many people should take, both the Council of State and, for that matter, the Municipality of Oslo, is how to get to the office that the representative Skei Grande told us about, where you often call and call without coming up. That's one of the steps that can be done with. This is an important interpellation debate. I would like to commend my partisan Trine Skei Grande for she dares to go into topics that are sensitive and quite close.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-2.ana.ud600e115	I also want to start by giving praise to Trine Skei Grande for having raised this debate. I think it's absolutely necessary. I think there's almost no limit to how many times this has to become a theme if we're to get rid of the taboo culture that exists. It is absolutely necessary to maintain the old slogans of the support centre movement: Incest is to be spoken in his/her heel, not in his/her heel. It's clear that incest and sexual assault are taboo, and when boys are exposed, and women are superior, there's even more taboo. The Support Centre movement has done a lot of work in this area. Among other things, I have wanting to bring out the Incest Centre in Westfold, which has now served the green telephone line, which we very much appreciate the fact that the Government has just put in there, so that we get competent people at the other end. It should be a telephone for both vulnerable people, for relatives and for professionals, so that they can call and ask for advice. They also have their own website that provides an overview of help offers across the country. It's unique. In addition, I want to bring out the Centers for Abused Men in Oslo, where, among other things. Change Förland has been going on as a whole for many years, with the pressures it has certainly brought by standing up in that way. But he has not given up, he has demanded to have a face in that debate. I think there's a lot of respect for that, and there's reason to bend in the dust for that effort. Being a man and standing up with such stories is terrible tough – and enough extra tough. It takes a lot of courage. The Institute of Clinical Sexology and Therapy has also done a lot to make this gender dimension visible in the problem of abuse. I have enjoyed having close contact with them for many years. Many offenders are comforted by the fact that the children they are proselytizing have initially visited the attacker. These include: that many of these children are initially quite lonely and need adult contact. I'm not saying that everyone has it like that, but a lot, and they want to be close. But what the perpetrators need to know is that the children often take even more harm from the assault when it's the children's seamen who've visited them. I think it's worth thinking about, because what usually characterizes sexual assault is precisely this with secrecy and taboo culture, and it gets even stronger when guilt comes to the top of this. This applies in particular when the child has visited the seafarer. They also tend to say that at the Institute of Clinical Sexology and Therapy, and be very clear about it. They also have shoppers for treatment in themselves. In SV we are very concerned about strengthening the offer of vulnerable children. Professionals who have competence and courage, who dare to ask questions and dare to respond to the answers they get, professionals who cooperate, who are involved in their profession, and who have leaders who are close and committed – this is extremely important. It is also incredibly important that we make a settlement with the taboo culture that prevails – in all fields, I would say – in society, and we do so, among other things. Here now. We need to talk about this where children are at daily intervals. I had a conversation with Ada Austergard, the mother of Stine Sofie who was killed in Baneheia. She said she thought it was strange that her six-year-old daughter had learned about alcohol and tobacco, but not about violence and abuse. I think that's a cross of thought. You have to start talking to kids about this, so they can at least know that this is no fun, fun and fun, phy. May Hansen reported, among others: for proposals which we have been behind, and in particular this with Barna's house, we must now put them in place. It can play a very important role for these children and their families, but also for the auxiliaries, who can get guidance. Then I just want to say to the very end that those who claim that SV denies that this affects men, they think I really know better. So I'd like us not to discuss it any more. We are very concerned that this also affects boys – of course it does – and that women are also superiors. But I think that the misunderstanding is that I explained the damage that exposed women get, and that we know about, because women have been researched. But just there also comes a discriminatory factor. We've done too little research on men, and we have to do something about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-2.ana.ud600e138	First of all, I must also be allowed to join the ranks of people who have thanked the representative Skei Grande for addressing such an important question. This isn't just a very important question, it's also an incredibly difficult topic to talk about. Although it sounds very strange, and this has been mentioned by many before me today, it may seem that it is much easier for girls not only to talk to their neighbors about previous abuses, but also to contact the auxiliaries. And the worst thing is that it also seems that the auxiliaries have a lot easier to help girls than boys. There is a broad consensus in this room that the adverse effects of sexual assault on children are the same regardless of gender. But we have to realize that men are far less open about abuse they have experienced in childhood, and I think this makes men labor much more and much longer with late effects than what the other sex does. Now people must not misunderstand me, but to me it is close to talking about the strong and the weak sex. Because there is no doubt that in this context it is men who are the weak sex. For some strange reason, there is not the same acceptance that a man is telling his friends or his support apparatus about past abuses. But is it really that we don't know the reason? Unfortunately, in the world’s most equalised countries, as Norway actually is, there are enormous differences between men and women. In particular, the expected gender roles — and the gender role that Norwegian boys are indirectly told by society to take. It's largely about being tough, about being a masculine and about taking it back if someone tries to hurt you. And if you can't take it again, at least you shouldn't start laughing or gossiping to someone -- then you're a pussy. But sometimes it's not as easy to take it again. I don't think it's that easy for an eight-year-old boy who gets sexually abused by one of his parents, to take back the attacker. The consequence of these attitudes that Norwegian boys get trampled down on their heads by Norwegian society is that male victims of this type of assault are often blamed on themselves, they blame themselves for not being able to defend themselves, and they are ashamed. They are so ashamed that they do not dare to contact people who can help them with the problems they are struggling with. In the Norwegian gender equality debate, it is claimed from time to time that it is soon impossible for men to be men anymore — the human role is about to disappear. Right in this case, I really don't think the traditional human role is something we're going to miss out on. In this context, I think it was great what the Council of State said about the importance of letting men be victims. Maybe there's some of the most important things we're discussing here. We can have the best helper in the world, but it doesn't help men if they don't make sense, and dare to realize that they have been victims of a cruel act that they themselves are not responsible for. There have been a lot of good words in the hall here, and there is a very broad consensus on the issue – and I have no plans to sabotage this good atmosphere. Nevertheless, I think I have to mention that I thought it was a bit broken by the Progress Party to focus so much on punishment. The community is clearly going to punish the perpetrators who are guilty of this kind of terrible offense, but it's very important to keep focus, because it's infinitely much more important that we get a real offer to the victims in place than that we're going to spend time wondering what becomes the worst possible punishment for the perpetrator. We need to get more men into the auxiliaries, so that it's easier for men to talk about the problems they're struggling with. We need to disseminate information through the school health service to address the problems at an early stage and, hopefully, avoid any abuse. We need to ensure that the necessary competences and resources are available in both healthcare and support and ancillary services in this area. Not least, it's important that we tell guys that it's okay not always to be the toughest in the world, and that it's okay to be a victim.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-2.ana.ud600e155	I would first like to thank you for a good debate in which all the parties have participated. I just have to say that if someone thought of me this way at first that I was criticizing SV, that wasn't the idea, but I was very thoughtful after that debate about why you got as angry as you were, because it was clearly a feeling that occurred. I feel that they all, most of them here in the debate have had a slightly thoughtful, backward role, and I think that has been good. I also have to say that I think it has been very good that we have had a debate on sexual abuse with a majority of men as participants. Then we also got a little bit on our way. What I also think has been fine, is that we have been able to use the Great Britain's pulpit to kill some taboos. This is a topic where not only political action is needed but also a public debate. I think that Olemic Thommesen's image of brotherhood and sisterhood shows how difficult this is, for everyone sees it's a little easier to tell if there's two girlfriends sitting on the couch with a red wine glass, or two friends sitting on the couch with a beer bottle. We imagine that the picture of the situation where it's easy to tell something is different in that context. For my part, I wrote a special edition in the third gym on the Torah trilogy. I, who had had a protected growth and almost didn't understand what it was about once, really discovered that a writer could open a world that made me understand something, got a political commitment to something, and that I actually also felt a responsibility to do something. I think we should use the opportunity we now have, to both, as No Marte Thorkildsen did, to honor the pioneers in the field who have worked for it, and to open a debate that might get others on the field, both to do something political, to get something professional and also to do something in a social debate where this should no longer be seen as a taboo. Then we might also need a writer who is willing to write the trilogy of Tore.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-2.ana.ud600e166	In conclusion, I would like to say very briefly that each of the posts that have been held here in this interview debate has been very good and has made very important contributions to a taboo theme. I will not go into every post that has been made, but I want to say that the representative Dørum kept a very worthy and well-pointed summary of what I felt many expressed. So I think his words can stand as a very good end to this debate. I can only promise that we are going to follow up the concrete recordings that have been made in the debate, both in terms of knowledge, competence, how our auxiliaries can focus, and to dry up asking questions about sexual abuse in a completely different way from what has been done. There is also an important gender dimension in what the interpellant has drawn up today, namely that we also need to focus on men in relation to these questions in a completely different way than we have done so far. Then I also want to defend SV a little bit on the tap. I can assure the opposition that SV's commitment to many of these questions is entirely genuine, and that is also emphasised in the road choices that our Department and the Ministry of Justice are making on these issues. I just wanted to say it, because it's the interaction between the games that makes us come out that way. In this way, we will also include the contribution of the Left in this topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-2.ana.ud600e175	The interpellant debate is closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-2.ana.ud600e189	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetition of the individual statements. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-2.ana.ud600e198	In the examination of this case there has been a great deal of consensus in the Committee. Nevertheless, I find it right to link some comments to some of the points, including: to this with overfishing. Overfishing is probably one of the biggest problems facing the Norwegian fishing industry, a problem that has been going on for many years, and which is probably going to last. As can be seen from the above, overfishing in Norwegian-Arctic cod in the Barents Sea is estimated at 100 000 to 120 000 tonnes per year. That's 20 pst. of the total quota for cod and it has a first-hand value of approx. One and a half billion kroner. It's significant. Then I think it is right to focus on that from the committee, which we have also written in the vote. We are also aware that this will result in a reduction in quotas. It affects the fishing fleet, and it also affects the fish recipients that depend on the raw material. Many measures have been tried over the years, but, unfortunately, overfishing has not decreased. So it's a big challenge you're facing here. So I'm just going to add a few brief comments to a point where the committee has a little bit of shared vision. The quota negotiations between Norway and Russia concern the management of the king crab. We record that for 2006, there is an agreement to have Russia capture 3 million individuals. The quota for Norway is 300000. The minority – the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People’s Party and the Left – records that Norway’s share is slightly lower than that for which it should have been based. I assume that the Minister for Fisheries will come to a closer conclusion in his speech. Then it's also important to realize that the royal crab is an introduced species. In that case, particular attention should be paid to its management. After what we've registered, it's possible that there's going to be a matter for the Grand Council on the management of the royal crab, and I think it's high time you got a long-term strategy like that. In conclusion, I believe that the most important thing that can be done in the future to manage fishing resources both in the Barents Sea and in the North Sea is to strengthen dialogue with the countries with which we work, not least with Russia in the North, just to improve the management and control of the Common Maritime Areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-2.ana.ud600e215	I allow myself to point out that Norway has won through the North Atlantic Fisheries Commission with the demand for enhanced port State control in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregistered fishing. The EU countries and Russia, not least, have joined in this, which, in my view, is a breakthrough for the international work of the Government and Fisheries Minister Helga Pedersen in this area. I would also point out that later this evening Odelstinget will deal with changes to the Fishing Prohibition Act and the Saltwater Fishing Act on the same subject. At a time when some are calling for a more aggressive approach to the control of fishing in the northern regions, there may be grounds for recalling that Norwegian action must always be within the framework of international law and the fisheries agreements that Norway has with other countries. There is no alternative to these agreements. The alternative is that we fish the sea empty. That is why our fisheries agreements are the very foundation of our fisheries cooperation with other countries. It is important that the contractual environment is maintained and further developed in the coming years. And it turns out it's useful. Step by step, we will approach sustainable international resource management in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-2.ana.ud600e222	An extensive part, approx. 90 pst., of Norwegian fishing happens on populations that we share with other countries. This means that the nations concerned jointly should both cooperate and cooperate on the rational regulation and protection of stocks. In order to influence the management of marine resources and to influence the development of international maritime law, it is important that Norwegian authorities are active and still have a strong position in this work. There is reason to be concerned about cod stocks when the EU-Agreement with the EU for 2006 now shows that the parties have had to adopt further cuts in the cod quota. This means that the cod quota has never been lower, while the total quota for hake, sieving and plaice is being reduced. Overfishing in the Barents Sea causes considerable economic losses for Norway, which one has experienced in the past. Despite a number of Norwegian measures, the decline in overfishing in the Barents Sea has not been particularly significant in recent years. Right is pleased that the Government is following up the important work undertaken by the Bondevik II Government, with a greater focus on and enhanced control of transshipment of fish in the Barents Sea. Measures taken to stop overfishing must be based on international agreements and implemented by countries concluding agreements to control overfishing and control the landing of fish. The fight against overfishing in the Barents Sea is one of the most important challenges we have in the future. I am pleased that the Government takes the matter seriously, but this matter is not resolved in a short time or with small appropriations in the budget. Targeted work is needed, and action needs to be taken to manage fishing resources in a sustainable way and to stop overfishing. This does not mean that only the Minister of Finance is involved in the matter. The Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs must use the channels available to deal with the illegalities in our neighbourhoods. Despite the fact that the king crab is an economic resource, the Right believes that it poses major problems for the traditional fishing fleet. Therefore, the right is wondering about the low total Norwegian take-off, on the basis of the overall increase for 2006. The right is also skeptical that the administration of royal crabs is based on the growth of the total population – despite the fact that it is an introduced species. Important measures to reduce the species must be to consider a requirement to retain caught female crabs on board when caught. While the Norwegian authorities have a high responsibility in promoting sound resource management, the economic needs of the fishing industry, its importance for the national economy must be constantly taken into account, and not least the coastal settlement must be taken into account. The right is pleased that the fishing industry has experienced profitability in recent years and that the fishing industry has been able to make the necessary initial investments as a result of a policy that has stimulated increased profitability. What is alarming is that since last autumn’s elections, the Norwegian fishing industry has been subject to a number of measures and regulations that alone, and not least in sum, contribute to reducing this profitability. There are, in particular, five factors that have contributed to a deterioration in profitability and that the Government should take a closer look at. It is the district enemy district quotas, the extension of the net pay system, the strong tightening of universal service, the structural halt and the NOx charge, which particularly affect fishing fleets.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-2.ana.ud600e244	I would also like to stress that we have to recognise that a large part of Norwegian fishing takes place in populations we share with other countries, and that it creates great challenges for us, as has also been pointed out in this case. So we are obliged to cooperate to promote sound resource management, but we are also obliged to have a resource management that takes into account the economy of domestic fisheries. I want to stay a little bit with it. The great overfishing, which has been underlined by several of the representatives here, is worrying. The excessive overfishing of cod results directly in reduced national quotas, resulting in a lower operating base for the fishing fleet in Norway. This is a very serious problem. The fact that we have an overfishing that is estimated to be 20 pst. of the total quota on cod, represents enormous values for Norwegian fishermen. There is a negative impact for each vessel in the Norwegian fishing fleet, from the smallest coastal vessel to the large trawls that are at long sea. If we had managed to overcome overfishing, which we are now fighting hard to achieve, it would have affected both structural policy and distribution issues in the fishing industry, and we might have avoided some of the conflicts that it refers to in many other contexts if we had control of the resources and could have distributed this to our own fishermen. We have to recognise that, despite the fact that a number of measures have been implemented, overfishing in the Barents Sea has not decreased significantly, and we have to discuss new measures, which we will be doing later in Odelstinget. Control of resources requires close cooperation with the countries with which we share resources. We have agreements with the EU, Russia, Portugal and other countries. I am concerned that we need to continue to review and review those agreements in order to strengthen the overall control effort in the North-East Atlantic. In my opinion, the most important thing now is to get control of the harvesting of fish in the Barents Sea. It's been first priority, and it's got to be first priority too. I think we can say that 2006 has brought us a good deal further when it comes to getting rid of illegal fishing. We're going to discuss that further. Norway and Russia have undertaken mutual exchange of information on allowances at ship level. It has provided the control authorities with an improved opportunity to assess whether or not each vessel is legally fishing. In addition, we have had tests and tests on satellite tracking throughout the Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea. It works, as far as I know, satisfactorily, and it can also contribute to better control. In particular, there is agreement between Norway and Russia to cooperate to analyse information on overfishing both in the Barents Sea and in the Norwegian Sea. We also have good cooperation with the European Union. Both the EU and Norway are actively involved in establishing a robust regime for port State control. The North-East Atlantic Fisheries Commission has adopted binding rules for such controls. They apply to the EU, the Faeroe Islands, Greenland, Iceland, Russia and Norway. The rules shall enter into force during the spring of 2007 and they will be a very good complement in cases where the flag State does not have the will or ability to control vessels flying its flag. I think we're going to be very pleased that we've moved on many steps towards ensuring sustainable management of the shared fish stocks. I would also like to stress that for the vast majority of North-East Atlantic populations, there are administrative regimes in place, and it is also a good and constructive administrative cooperation with the other countries that makes us look ahead and take a positive look at achieving sustainable management over the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-2.ana.ud600e259	The left is committed to regulating the traditional fishing industry through quota provisions, so that long-term taxation does not exceed the ecologically sustainable level. It is important that, through international negotiations, Norway is a driver of sustainable fisheries – this through our focus on effective control, our work against unregulated fishing and for more sustainable taxation in international waters as well. International agreements and effective control must ensure ecological balance. Of course, this applies everywhere, but it is important in the current situation to focus specifically on the North Sea and the Barents Sea. The stock of North Sea cod is in a difficult situation, although the total quota has been at a very low level in recent years. The ICES International Maritime Research Organisation has long recommended full stoppages in fishing. Cod will always be used as a by-catch in other fisheries, so a total stop is practically impossible. However, it is necessary to work continuously to come up with arrangements to minimise cod in other fisheries. Time does not allow for more detail on the problem of the North Sea population, but one gets happy that the seismic population is in good condition, while there is something more worrying about the recruitment of North Sea herring. The left-wing conclusion is that although there is often a significant pressure from both nations and fisheries organisations on greater withdrawals than professional recommendations, it is important to resist, think long-term and be guided. It is a painful experience what happened to Norwegian springing herring in the 1960s, when the population was almost wiped out. Only now that the last decade, and in particular the 2002-year-old class have contributed to it, has the population risen to the level it was in the good years after the war. It is quick to tear down, but late to rebuild. It is a unanimous committee that has submitted its setting, except at one point where there are shades in the setting. This applies to the extraction of the royal crab. King crab is an introduced species in our areas. As we know, it came from the Pacific, transmitted by Russian researchers. The royal crab has been a significant problem for fishermen who are especially involved in nets and line fishing. In the last four to five years, by-catch of royal crabs has also been recorded in trawls and scurvy. Although I am focusing here on the problems of the king crab, I am fully aware of its potential as a basis for nutrition in a new and exciting species that provides new opportunities for both fishermen and processing businesses. But in the view of the Left, it is important to have the best possible control of the prevalence of this species until one knows more about the ecological effects. Therefore, the Left is skeptical of a policy that implies an increase in the population. Here it is important to have a significant research effort on the biological and ecological effects of the king crab. And I think it's urgent. Although there is increased interaction and focus on better practices between Norway and Russia in control and action against overfishing, this is still a major problem, which has been discussed by several speakers. As the Committee points out, this could lead to a reduction in national allowances, which in turn leads to a lower fleet operating base. There's overfishing in the Barents Sea for billions of dollars in cod and hake. What concerns is that, although measures are being implemented, overfishing does not seem to have decreased in recent years — perhaps rather on the contrary. It is therefore important that resources be deployed in this area and that action be taken against the offenders.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-2.ana.ud600e282	Initially, I would like to stress that sustainable resource management will be a central objective of the Government in the fisheries negotiations that we conduct with other countries each year. Based on the debate as far as it seems there is a very broad consensus on it. I've read the Committee's configuration, Innst. S. No 28, with interest and must say that the Committee's comments show that there is a broad consensus on the objectives we should have in these negotiations, and what are our challenges. I notice that the Committee points out how important it is for Norway to have agreements regulating fishing in the waters we share with other countries, and that there is particular concern about illegal fishing. This is a concern that I fully share. In the autumn negotiations with Russia, the illegal withdrawal of cod in the Barents Sea was the central theme, and Norway and Russia agreed on further measures to address the problem. In this year’s focus was also further progress in the implementation of various measures that have already been agreed upon. Illegal fishing is a common concern which is being addressed on many fronts, cf. the treatment today of the ostrich proposal on measures against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. Overall, it is my hope that the measures will help us to overcome illegal fishing in the Barents Sea. Based on the detection of landings of unregistered Norwegian Arctic cod in EU countries, control was also a central theme in the negotiations with the EU on a 2007 fisheries agreement. The EU is now our closest ally in the fight against UUU fishing. In the bilateral fisheries agreement with the EU, we also have long-term management plans for herring, sieving, hay and cod in the North Sea. The aim is to ensure sound management and to contribute to a stable framework for industry. The situation of cod in the North Sea is still difficult, and the total quota has been at a very low level in recent years. The quota for this population was further reduced for 2007 and is 19,957 tonnes, which is the lowest quota ever. I note that the members of the Committee from the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left are amazed at the low Norwegian total withdrawal of royal crabs for 2006. A small increase in the Norwegian quota of 20,000 individuals from 2005 to 2006 may appear small, but in fact means that the tax rate for male crabs above the minimum target was increased from 20 pst. to 37 pst. A relatively small increase in the number of crabs is due to a significant decrease in the population of catchable males in the Norwegian region from 2005 to 2006. Otherwise, reference is made to the great news of the administration of the royal crab coming next year. As regards the international administration of Norwegian springing herring, a five-party management agreement has not yet been concluded, but Norway has concluded bilateral agreements with the EU and Russia for 2006. As regards the management of coal, last year coastal states agreed on an agreement covering both the distribution and management of this stock. The agreement was continued for 2007. I am very pleased that we have made more progress in ensuring the sustainable management of shared fish stocks. It is also important to note that for the vast majority of North-East Atlantic populations, we have administrative regimes in place and good and constructive administrative cooperation with the countries concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-2.ana.ud600e310	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 942]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-2.ana.ud600e326	On behalf of the Business Committee, I present the Innst. S. No 60 for 2006-2007 on consent to the approval of Decision No EEA Committee 68/2006 of 2 June 2006 on the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of EU acts on public acquisitions, etc., based on St.prp. No 2 for 2006-2007 with the same name. As rapporteur, it has not been possible to reveal any disagreement in the Committee on this matter. This means that the entire Committee stands together and recommends that the Storting should decide to approve the above-mentioned decision of the EEA Committee. The two new Council Directives together constitute the main regulatory framework for the regulation of public procurement in the EU and the implementation of the Directives with the legislative acts will contribute to the renewal of the procurement legislation. The procedures proposed for inclusion in Norwegian law and regulation concern increased flexibility and higher quality requirements for public procurement systems. It is a full electronic procurement form, where suppliers can register in an electronic system and make offers to the public purchaser. This is an extended possibility for dialogue in the inception of large, complex projects, and it is an increased requirement for the weighting of award criteria. These changes also lead to the adoption of existing case-law on environmental and social considerations. Furthermore, the Directive contains rules to ensure the universal design of all products, services, buildings and surroundings, so that they can be used on equal terms as much as possible. The amendments recommended by the Committee require changes to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to public acquisitions. The amendment of procurement procedures in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors necessitates both legislative changes and a number of changes to the supply regulation. New procedural rules for the public acquisition of goods, services and works imply the further development of three existing directives. These do not require legal changes but a number of changes to the regulation on government acquisitions. The Directive facilitates the electronic execution of the entire procurement procedure from publication, transmission of a competitive basis, questions, submission of tenders and evaluation. Furthermore, it opens up so-called dynamic purchasing arrangements and electronic auctions. Let me make it clear that the Committee is of the opinion that change in the procedures in itself does not promote the increased outsourcing of goods and services. The procedures are recommended solely for the management of public acquisitions in areas already decided on under national competition. I'm referring to the setting, where an overall committee joins the submitted proposition from the Government. The proposal has also been within the Foreign Affairs Committee, without having any further comments or comments on the vote. In this context, the Committee recommends that the Stortinget consent to the approval of the decision of the EEA Committee to include these EU acts on public procurement in Norwegian law and regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-2.ana.ud600e354	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 943]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-2.ana.ud600e362	Then Stortinget will vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-2.ana.ud600e370	During the debate, seven proposals were put forward by Per Ove Wideth, on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-2.ana.ud600e3815	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Per Ove Width, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Jan Petersen on behalf of the Right It is first voted on the proposal from the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to merge the clearing body into two bodies, one civil and one military.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-2.ana.ud600e3839	It is then put to the vote on the proposal by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to establish a common clearing authority governed by the NSM and to maintain its own intelligence clearance authority, applicable specifically to the intelligence service.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-2.ana.ud600e3865	In Case No: 3–5 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-2.ana.ud600e3873	The Committee had set up: St.meld. No This [[2005-2006]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-05-2.ana.ud600e3907	There is no record. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
