ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-09-lower.ana.ud2529e42	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-09-lower.ana.ud2529e51	An overall committee is in favour of foreign workers coming to Norway to work. Demand for labour, inter alia: the construction industry and agricultural industry are larger than the supply, and migrant labour makes it possible to maintain a high level of activity while wage developments are moderate and price developments are limited. However, it is a serious challenge for some foreign workers to be offered pay and working conditions which differ significantly from those offered to Norwegian workers. In the Dagbladet on 9 October, Steinar Lem warns against migrant labour becoming a subclass of servants for the kres and rich Nordics. These workers deserve far better conditions in Norway than many are offered today. To this end, the Committee clarifies that migrant labour is to be offered Norwegian wage and working conditions and that work on social dumping needs to be intensified. The Committee supports the Government’s proposal to allow the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Authority to impose and apply periodic penalty payments and penalties in order to enforce compliance with the obligations of supervision under the Public Procurement Act and the Foreign Affairs Act. It is important that authorities should be able to impose effective and targeted penalties when complying with statutory rights and obligations. It is positive that the Ministry investigates whether an infringement fee may be applicable in the event of a breach of the law. An overall committee sees that supervision needs sufficient resources to carry out its control functions. It is important to rapidly develop new procedures for the implementation of the new tasks now being entrusted to supervisory authorities in order to see in practice a reinforced response to social dumping. The Committee also supports the proposal to include a regulatory body in Section 9 of the Public Procurement Act, which allows the Ministry to lay down rules requiring contracting entities to inform contracting entities of obligations under the Public Procurement Regulation. We think it makes sense for the Ministry to give such a regulation to the construction industry in the first place, but we ask the Ministry to continue to assess the need for a more comprehensive regulation. Today, the authorities responsible for the enforcement of the anti-social dumping legislation can only place the company in which the workers are employed under the responsibility of law offences. The Workers' Party, Right, SV, Christian People's Party and Left believe that the contracting entities should be given greater responsibility for the proper remuneration and working conditions of foreign workers, and we want the Government to follow this up through proposals for regulatory changes that make the contracting entities more accountable. A minority, consisting of the Right Christian People's Party and the Left, points out in the position that such an obligation must be followed by sanctions. The Committee, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, shares the Government's concern that access to labour hire can lead to the emergence of a short-term labour market characterised by unprofessionalism and poor pay and working conditions. We believe that there is a need for clearer rules for those who can hire and hire labour in Norway, and are responding to regulatory amendments to this effect. I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party has received full support for the proposal to ask the Government to consider proposals that will facilitate the availability of information on rights and obligations in Norway in a language that they understand. This ensures legal employment and working conditions. Lack of accurate information can lead to tax evasion and illegal working conditions. The Christian People's Party believes that trustees should be granted the right of access to the pay and working conditions of foreign workers in areas subject to public service decisions. In our opinion, such a system will contribute to effective control of compliance with provisions adopted to prevent social dumping. For the time being, we are alone on this proposal. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its clear and good cooperation and good input on the road. I also refer to the vote, and mention the proposal that is included there.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-09-lower.ana.ud2529e79	The representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-09-lower.ana.ud2529e82	The issue we are dealing with today is a major cross-political consensus on the proposals put forward by the Government to change. It is positive that foreign labour is coming to Norway. We are in the situation today that there is a shortage of labour, especially in the construction sector, and it would make sense to invest there, for example. also on the road, could use foreign labour to a much greater extent in order to complete projects. In this respect, the Progress Party would like to welcome them to contribute to a better value creation in our own country. It is also important to facilitate the positive participation of foreign labour in Norway. We are well aware that some foreign workers are offered pay and working conditions that are worse than what we are used to under Norwegian conditions. It is important to clarify that a unanimous committee and a unanimous majority are opposed to social dumping and want to work to combat it. For this reason, it is also considered that work on social dumping needs to be intensified. The Progress Party considers it important in this work that the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Inspectorate are provided with sanctions. We think it can help limit social dumping by giving the two supervisors the opportunity to come up with measures when you're out recording things. Another point I would like to touch on is the right of access for trustees. The Progress Party considers that this raises many questions of principle and that they need to be thoroughly investigated before possible recourse to such a system, both in the interests of privacy and in the interests of competitive relationships between enterprises. Finally, I would like to say that we also think that transparency must be reserved for the supervisory authorities. In addition to this, I have no other comments on the matter. It is clear from the setting that there is a relatively unanimous committee behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-09-lower.ana.ud2529e95	The proposition we are discussing today is a concrete follow-up to the Government's action plan against social dumping. The action plan presented in the revised national budget consists of a number of elements that, individually and collectively, will contribute to the fight against social dumping. The large differences in pay and living conditions between Norway and many of the new EU countries make it very profitable to trade cheap labour from Eastern Europe in a Norwegian labour market. When, in many cases, Eastern European construction workers earn between 50 and 60 kroner per hour, and in many cases less, one should not think that this is reflected in the price the consumer ultimately pays for the product. The benefits of hiring out Eastern European labour can be very high in several stages, and this is the driving force behind the phenomenon of social dumping. The Government’s action plan against social dumping therefore provides for a mix of measures aimed at strengthening the law and regulation, strengthening control bodies and responsible labour market actors, and in particular the construction industry. I Ot. pp. No 92 for 2005-2006, the Government proposes to coerce the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Authority into coercive measures such as the coercive payment and the cessation of work in order to ensure compliance with the obligations, the conformity of pay and working conditions agreements with the public service regulations, and the conformity of work and residence permits with the legislation. These are coercive substances that have been shown to be effective in the enforcement of the Work Environment Act. There are coercive measures which the supervisory authorities also have experience in using. It is the supervision itself that has to assess the use of the instrument on a case-by-case basis. As I mentioned earlier, today it is very profitable to pick up the most unscrupulous players on this market. It is therefore absolutely necessary to find measures that can deter those who will make money to underpay their employees. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State, in its letter to the Committee on 13 October, states that the Department considers further strengthening the role of the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Authority by allowing them to use sanctions, such as: Infringement fee e.g. The level of social dumping that has been identified is greatest in the construction industry. It is an industry characterised by the temporary nature of workplaces and by the fact that many enterprises are in swing on the same construction site at the same time. We find here many different contractual relationships and partly long contract chains. These conditions require special rules for the industry. As regards health, the environment and safety, building contractors, project managers and employers have been entrusted with a specific responsibility for the conditions of workers on construction sites through the Building Regulation. So we already have laws that impose responsibility on non-employees for workers in construction sites. In the context of social dumping situations, we have seen in many cases that contracting entities make demands on the pay and working conditions of contractors. Norway has ratified ILO Convention No. 94 and has implemented it by requiring that the pay and working conditions of workers on state-owned construction should not be lower than those resulting from applicable collective bargaining agreements. In the private sector, we see some contracting entities applying similar requirements on their own initiative. The Government’s action plan against social dumping states that ILO Convention No. 94 in 2007 will also be implemented in municipalities and county municipalities. The present proposal proposes that the Ministry should be authorised to lay down rules requiring contracting entities to include a clause in contracts ‘in which it is informed that the employees of the contracting entities must have pay and working conditions’ in accordance with the general rules. This is a step in the right direction. I am pleased that the Government is investigating the need for a more comprehensive regulation. We believe that a stronger accountability of the contracting entity will make it easier to close out the businesses that are ahead of social dumping. The consideration of this proposition by the Committee has once again shown that there is a broad consensus on the objectives and instruments of the Government’s strong commitment to social dumping. I note in particular that the former government parties now support the principle that the contracting entity must also be held responsible for the pay and working conditions of the employees of the contracting entity. This is a positive development in relation to the previous ageing period, as these lots in the Inst. S. No 149 for 2003-2004 demonstrated resistance to such extended liability. When the former government parties now support both the present proposal and the idea of further accountability, I choose to interpret it as an expression of how bad conditions have become in the construction industry, and that strong instruments are needed to achieve the objective of orderly pay and working conditions in a serious labour market. The government has close and good cooperation with the social partners on these issues. This is an important cooperation. When the previous government parties want to get on the table proposals on measures and sanctions that make the contracting entity responsible, I notice that. However, the Workers' Party will await the investigations and assessments that will emerge in the Government's cooperation with the parties to this issue. The same applies to the proposal on the right of access for elected representatives, which is an important requirement of professional mobility and, as the Government has said in the Soria Moria Declaration, is in place. Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a good cooperation during the examination of the matter and once again express pleasure at the consensus that exists in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-09-lower.ana.ud2529e121	First of all, I also want to express joy at the very broad political consensus that labour migration is positive. It is a unanimous committee that states that labour migration allows a high level of activity to be maintained, wage developments to be moderated and price developments to be limited. This is not bad at all, given the noise and political unrest that has been associated with labour immigration only a relatively short time ago. I note this with great satisfaction. This consensus is worth noting and taking care of, even for future times, when the labour market situation may be quite different from what we see today. At the same time, it is worth lifting your eyes – look beyond paragraphs and details – not to forget what this is all about. When the EU was enlarged by ten new countries in May 2004, it was an event that will enter Europe’s history as one of the most important moments. For many tens of millions of people this new opportunity to create a new and better life, to get out of the oppression, surveillance and distress of communist dictatorships. The four freedoms of the EU, which were dispelled in 1994 during the EU fight, are now recognised as fundamentally positive in this case, which is also about the free movement of labour. It's also not a small event, politically. That being said, there is no reason to hide that one within some sectors finds unworthy relationships for foreign workers. This is all reason to try to fight. None of the social partners, neither employers nor employees nor governments, are in a position to develop this. It will only undermine the possibilities of developing a serious and decent working and business life. At the same time, I think it is important to recognise that this is a complicated area, where it is not given that the instruments that you believe will work effectively, will actually do so. In this case, there is broad agreement on some instruments, including: the importance of the role of the Labour Inspectorate and Petroleum Control and the need for sanctions. But if the supervisory authorities are to have the opportunity to do their job properly, I think one is also going to have to admit that they need increased resources. I do not feel confident that the increased resources that the Labour Inspectorate has so far received will be sufficient to carry out these important tasks. This worries me, and I hope that the Council of State can comment on it a little bit in the post he will later make. In conclusion, I would just like to address that issue – perhaps the only one – where there really is disagreement in the Committee, and it concerns the issue of the right of access by the elected representatives. At the right’s discretion – and the Progress Party and the Left are also behind these evaluations in the vote – a right of access for trustees in the pay and working conditions of workers, including in establishments where the union in question does not have members, raises a number of questions. These are issues of both EU law, labour law, competition law, public law and data protection law. I register with interest that the government parties do not fully support the case rapporteur and the Christian People's Party in this question in the setting, but I reserve the right to come back to it. I also hope that the Council of State will be able to comment on this issue in more detail. I think it is absolutely essential that such a right of access is reserved to the supervisory authorities in relation to the job they are going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-09-lower.ana.ud2529e140	The fight against social dumping is crucial if we are to succeed in giving workers decent conditions and negotiating rights in a globalised world. I must admit that when I read this statement, I was very pleased that the entire committee has agreed on the following wording: «It is important for the Committee to clarify that migrant labour is to be offered Norwegian pay and working conditions.» For a man like me, who worked on this in the last growing-up period, there's no way. Then we had a debate after discussion with the previous government parties on this very premise. I now see that it has attached itself, and that there is agreement on this in a total mass. I'm very, very happy about that. So our government is in favour of labour immigration. There are two types of immigration. One is employment immigration, where foreign companies offer their services in Norway. The other is migrant labour, i.e. people from Poland or elsewhere, applying for employment in Norwegian companies and getting a job there. What we see from the Labour Inspectorate's reports is that in relation to workers coming from the new EU countries who are employed in Norwegian, serious companies, they have largely old-age pay and working conditions. The challenge lies in particular within the field of service, where people come from foreign companies and are offered, preferably through temporary employment agencies, poor pay and working conditions. Against that, we only have one instrument, and that's the publication of collective bargaining agreements. What we have done in some industries with the publication of collective bargaining agreements. We've done it in the construction industry. And what we see is that it's a heavy tool to use. That is why it is very good that the majority in Stortinget in the previous period, consisting of all but the three previous government parties, gave the Labour Inspectorate authority to enforce these public tariff agreements. Now we go one step further, and then all of the games in Stortinget are with us. I am very pleased about that, because it helps to strengthen the work force's ability to tap into social dumping. What is important to be told to the Christian People's Party is that I am very happy that the Christian People's Party is promoting the proposal that they are now making. In the last period, the Christian People's Party voted against this proposal as the parties that are now in government – the Central Party, the Workers' Party and the SV – promoted exactly the same proposal. I see that it is the germ of a broader alliance against social dumping – to make employers responsible, and to ensure that the rights of the trade union movement are strengthened. That's why we're also saying that this is one of the things we're going to consider, go right into and come back to as part of a broader social dumping action package. We have a Minister of Labour who has said very clearly that he is in favour of labour immigration in order to solve some of the challenges we face in the lack of labour in key areas. However, it is also very important to say that the principle that a worker should then be offered Norwegian pay and working conditions lies as a foundation of government policy. There is no doubt that if, for example, we get labour immigration of unskilled labour from the new EU countries, possibly also through international trade agreements on the service front, so that we get a wider immigration of low-paid labour from other countries, it is vital to ensure that the principle of Norwegian pay and working conditions are fully established. If we don't risk exactly what Ottar Brox writes about in his book on labour immigration, and as many others who are concerned with the positive effects of labour migration, writes about, namely, developing a new subclass. I noticed in a debate with Jan Tore Sanner just one week ago that he said that we should repeal all the transitional rules relating to the new EU countries. If one starts to unravel — for one of the principles that lie there, precisely Norwegian pay and working conditions — and gives people who come from poorer countries with poorer pay conditions and who immigrate to Norway to work, poorer pay and working conditions, then it is precisely in the trap that one develops a subclass in Norway. So we can't have any of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-09-lower.ana.ud2529e162	The centre party has no objection that job vacancies in Norwegian jobs are occupied by people from other countries, but we do not want to participate in a development in which domestic labour is replaced by an outside labour force offered luxuries and miserable social conditions. It is therefore necessary that the transitional arrangements we have against free labour immigration from EEA countries be supplemented by measures against social dumping. I am pleased that the Government is going into this work in depth, and that we are now going to be presented continuously in the future with proposals that are just representing these measures. I am also pleased – perhaps extra pleased – that there is a broader and broader consensus among the parties on the need for these measures to combat social dumping. Yes, it is, as you can see when you read this setting, that there is an impatience in relation to the work done by the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion in the area. I really think that the Council of State will be happy when it comes to the problem. So the critics say that our transitional arrangements contribute to the search for loopholes to avoid the requirements. Consumer employers and labour hire agencies are legislating or deliberately breaking the rules in order to be able to pick up labour which is subject to much worse conditions than the transitional rules require. There are, of course, just measures to do something about what we are dealing with today, and which we will come back to later on when it comes to other issues. It is necessary that the roles of the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Authority be strengthened by being able to impose and apply periodic penalty payments. The Committee stresses that sufficient resources must be allocated to supervision to this end. So I assume that the ministry will go into the evaluation of whether this is going to happen through increased resources, or whether it could also be possible to redeploy resources so that the work of supervision is targeted better than what might be done. Another point is the role of the contracting entity. Types of response to contracting entities that do not interfere with the breach of the law by subcontractors will be necessary. I am pleased that this is being worked on, and I am pleased with the impatience shown by the Committee in taking action to this end. Then, as several speakers have pointed out, we are still separating laws on the issue of the right of access for trustees in the working conditions offered at our workplaces. I note with interest that the Christian People's Party is playing along with the government parties on this issue, and even more impatient than we are, because we do not want to wait for the work that is now going on in the ministry to go through this and make proposals that will give us the opportunity to give it transparency. It's interesting that we are now developing such a broad consensus on the Storting about these measures against social dumping, and that we see it as a way to make Norway an open and inclusive society for the workers we depend on and we want to welcome here, but to be given conditions that allow us to see them in our eyes and experience that they can work on the same lines as Norwegian workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-09-lower.ana.ud2529e179	The left generally favours the changes in the law that we are dealing with today. We will initially conclude that it is an honest matter to look for a better future for themselves and their families, whether for political or economic reasons. For Norway, it is an enrichment that people who want to create a future come here. At the same time, we know that it contributes both to the maintenance of today's growth and to the creation of value. The left considers that the migrant worker should be granted a work permit in Norway as a result of having a job. It is equally important that the migrant enjoys the same rights and obligations as Norwegian nationals. In many areas, there is a demand for skilled labour. Therefore, the Left believes that it is important to facilitate relations so that foreign workers can take part in the Norwegian labour market in a positive way. At a time when labour demand is high, foreign labour will help maintain a high level of activity, while wage developments are moderate and price developments are limited. In an important area, there are principled lines of division between the parties in this matter. The majority assesses the right of access to pay and working conditions for trustees. I would like to stress that the Left believes that foreign labour should not involve any form of social dumping. Nevertheless, it is that transparency, as it is sketched, raises many fundamental questions and needs to be thoroughly investigated before any one can enter into such a scheme. Both in the interests of privacy and in the interests of competition between enterprises in the industries concerned, such transparency is of concern. However, the size is consistent with its concerns in several other areas. Some foreign workers are offered pay and working conditions in Norway which differ significantly from those offered to Norwegian workers. Foreign workers shall not lead to social dumping but to the development of healthy competition with Norwegian wage and working conditions. These include: such conditions are aimed at resolving legislative changes. In our view, the work against social dumping needs to be intensified. There is a need for sanctions to be provided to the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Authority in order to improve the efficiency of their work against social dumping. In this context, it is necessary to give the contracting entities an even greater responsibility for the provision of sound remuneration and employment to non-resident workers. Therefore, we support the proposal for a regulatory remedy to oblige contracting entities to inform contracting entities of obligations under the general regulation, and we believe it is necessary to make the contracting entities more accountable. It is therefore positive that the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Inspectorate are now given the opportunity to raise their attention to this issue. It is also true that many non-resident workers in Norway have difficulty familiarizing themselves with their rights and obligations. For many, the language is unknown and the network of the individual can be messageed. Lack of accurate information can lead to tax evasion and illegal working conditions. It is in the interests of both the individual worker and the Norwegian authorities that migrant labour is provided with easily accessible and aggregated information such as: ensure legal employment and working conditions. That is why a concrete proposal has been put forward by an overall committee in this area. The left joins, otherwise, the estimates and recommendations of the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-09-lower.ana.ud2529e200	The proposals now under consideration by Odelsting are a first step towards fulfilling the measures of the Action Plan against Social Dumping presented by the Government in the context of the revised national budget in spring. Although there may be different perceptions of how far individual actions in the action plan should go, I am pleased that there is a broad consensus on the measures to be addressed now and, among other things, on. implies that the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Authority will have the same access to imposes and to apply periodic penalty payments and penalties in order to enforce public service obligations as they have under the Labour Environment Act. The home provision for the provision of regulations requiring contracting entities to inform contractors of obligations under the Public Procurement Act will be put into practice primarily in the construction industry. Proposals for new builder regulations will be sent to the hearing with the first. As early as October 2004, the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Inspectorate were entrusted with supervision under the Public Service Act and the Foreign Affairs Act. Now they have the means to enforce this responsibility more effectively. The amendments shall enter into force on 1 December of this year. I am pleased that we have the committee with us in relation to the offer of migrant labour to Norwegian wage and working conditions and that work on social dumping needs to be intensified. In this context, I would like to point out, as the Committee also does in its position, that there is already investigation work in progress in the department. This applies both to the right of access to pay and working conditions, to the sanctioning powers of the supervisory seat, to the public sector scheme, to the problem of payment and rental, and to greater liability for contracting entities than has been proposed in this round. We are planning to send out a letter of consultation on some of these issues already in the autumn. I do not find any reason to go into each of these measures now. Several of them are already part of the action plan, and I stress that the implementation of this action plan is a high priority. The Committee asks the Ministry to ensure that the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Authority have sufficient resources to carry out their control functions. The floors got 4 million. additional to this work in the context of the revised national budget, and this appropriation has been proposed to be carried forward with an annual impact in the next year's budget. We will follow the resource situation closely. In the nomination, the Government is also asked to consider proposals for measures that will ensure that foreign workers in Norway are easily accessible and comprehensive information on rights and obligations, including: on legal employment and working conditions. In particular, the government is asked to consider setting up a separate unit in order to carry out this task under the auspices of the Labour Inspectorate. The Labour Inspectorate is developing a better information service. With funds from the additional appropriations, the ETA has inter alia: set up two new posts for Polish-speaking people in the Oslo area. The Oslo office also provides professionals with relevant language and cultural backgrounds to be linked to the information service. In addition to answering by telephone and electronic means, the system shall, at the end of each period, involve office hours in which workers may apply directly to obtain the necessary information. Other guidance activities, such as: publication of written material, information measures relating to supervision, campaigns, etc. At the same time, the ETA will contribute to strengthening information cooperation between different authorities, including: by cooperating with the police, tax authorities and NAVs to provide easily understandable and aggregated information on the rules applicable to work in Norway. Although this will initially be a project in the Oslo region, the aim is to get the service after each nationwide.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-09-lower.ana.ud2529e227	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-09-lower.ana.ud2529e230	It is essential that supervisory authorities increase their control work. Severe underpayments, irresponsible security measures, totally unacceptable working conditions and life-threatening housing conditions have been identified and show the need for more control. The Christian People's Party believes that trustees should be granted the right of access to the pay and working conditions of foreign workers, but only in areas subject to public service decisions. In our opinion, such a system will contribute to effective control by effectively complying with the provisions adopted to prevent social dumping. The representative Henriksen mentioned that this was reflected in the Soria Moria declaration. My question to the Council of State is, When can a person expect words to become action?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-09-lower.ana.ud2529e239	Yes, I record that the Christian People's Party has made a bold choice in its setting. I myself have some experience in that there is a difference between life and learning in being in position and opposition. It is also for the Christian People's Party. At the same time, it is fundamentally positive that we can rely on a broad majority in the Grand Duchy to do something about transparency. But it's also one of the areas where there's really a basis for really addressing, because there's no doubt that this affects quite a large number of fundamental issues in Norwegian working life. We're working hard on that. We aim to promote propositions and proposals for the Storting beyond the spring session in Stortinget, and the ambitions are that we should make something about transparency, as soon as we feel it is proper to be able to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-09-lower.ana.ud2529e246	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-09-lower.ana.ud2529e254	The odelsting shall now vote on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-09-lower.ana.ud2529e262	During the debate, Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, put forward a proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals as soon as possible giving elected representatives the right of access to the pay and employment of foreign workers in areas subject to public service decisions.’ The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-09-lower.ana.ud2529e368	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-09-lower.ana.ud2529e378	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-09-lower.ana.ud2529e391	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
