ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e30	The representative Robert Eriksson, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The representative of Gjermund Hageseter will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e35	On behalf of the representatives of Ulf Leirstein, Jørund Rytman, Christian Tybring-Gjedde and myself, I am delighted to propose an annual tax-free bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e40	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e58	On Friday, the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Anne-Grete Ström-ErichsenState Council Knut StorbergetState Council Heidi Grande Røys The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e77	I want to ask questions to the Minister of Justice. One of society’s most important tasks is to prevent and prevent crime. This is done in several ways, and the sum of them shows whether we succeed or not. Protecting children from abuse is and shall be one of the most important tasks we have. At the same time, it is also the case that, after an end, convicted persons are to be returned to society. Last night, the Minister of Justice and I took part in a debate on the use of pedophile offenders. One of the measures favoured by the Progress Party is to inform the local population by name and image if a pedophile is to be placed in their vicinity. The Minister of Justice said yesterday that he saw no obstacle to providing such information. On the basis of this, I would like to know if the Council of State has now planned to introduce such a measure and actually give notice to the local population when a former pedophilia sentence moves in. Such a measure will demonstrate that the safety of children is more important than the protection of former offenders.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e84	First of all, I have to express enthusiasm for the Progress Party to start talking about preventing criminal acts. It is particularly important, and I invite you to a wider debate in this way. As regards the issue of child abuse, prevention is certainly important. We have to do that on many teams, preferably before the action takes place, and before convictions come. Once punishment has come and people have been sentenced to detention, one of the most important prevention strategies is precisely to be restrictive in relation to issues of release, especially by the pedophilia convicted. So the question is how to behave when pedophilia judges come back into society. During the debate on television yesterday to which the representative referred, questions were raised about, inter alia: the obligation of professional secrecy of the police. It is obvious that many public bodies make it as if confidentiality rules apply so strictly that it is not possible to notify where necessary. What I said and want to underline is that the police have access to just alerts, especially school environments and organizations. I know that the police have also warned by sending out criminal convictions to bath facilities, but that is so in cases where it is considered necessary to warn against criminal offences. I see that many public authorities, as well as individuals, perceive the legislation as something different, and see the need to make a clarification in this, which I have set the ministry to do, and with which I will come back to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e93	I thank you for your answer. I record that the Council of State is competent to respond to public authorities, but the primary thing here is that parents should have an access to know what kind of community their children are moving in. It's, as we were in the debate we had yesterday, so that some people go back to society without the local people being aware that they're actually coming there. Then new, vulnerable situations arise where random children can end up as random victims. I think that public authorities are informed of this. But doesn't the Council of State think that even parents should have access to know about it when you get a previous pedophilia conviction in their community, not necessarily in order to drive a turn against him, but in order to secure your own children? Does not the Council of State consider it reasonable to have such knowledge?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e98	I think I would like to stress what I said in my answer, that what should be the motive of the police to provide such information, whether it be for a housing law, parents, bath facilities or school, must be that you want to avert criminal offences. It's important – and I think the representative Ellingen agrees with me – that we also have the thought in our head that people should return to society, and that we protect them from a situation where you are almost put in a gap, which can actually help to cause more criminal acts by making it impossible for any rehabilitation. So we have to be careful with the limit drawing that is done in relation to the information that is given. I am sure that the Norwegian police have so far balanced these relationships and provided information not only to public institutions but also to – as mentioned above – bathing facilities, and in some cases it may also be about housing laws and housing associations, precisely to avert obvious criminal acts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e103	The President will accept three follow-up questions – first Elisabeth Aspaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e106	Yesterday, the judgment in the Munch case fell. He who had contributed to the stolen car was sentenced to eight years in prison. In this case, we're talking about a pedophilia convicted with over 100 violations of conscience. He got seven years' custody and was released after three years. Munch is an important national tax, but our kids are the most important national taxes we have. The case of the released man who has committed a large number of pedophile assaults over several decades rebels against us. At NRK Focus last night we got a shocking picture of the man's abuse of many boys in many places in the country. Despite his conviction, he had to seek a new job in primary school in a new municipality and continue his abuse. This is a very serious estimate of the legal certainty of children in Norway. I do not think the Council of State answered specifically the question from Jan Arild Ellingsen, so I allow myself to ask again the same question: What will the Council of State actually do now to provide children in Norway with better protection against overgrowth and to prevent them from starting new employment among children, as in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e115	Now there was a different question to the one asked by the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen, but I'm going to try to be specific to the question, among other things. on professional secrecy. I believe that the previous government, and that will also be followed up by the current government, has contributed to the fact that the rules of professional secrecy have become clearer in the sense that the police today have access to alerts where they believe there is an imminent risk of further abuse. It is important in relation to the particular issue of child abuse. Then I will not fail to point out that we will not be able to reduce this type of crime if we do not also focus on preventing new abuses from people who are not convicted. Today, we have rules on certificates in relation to schools. It's important. However, we also need to put in place preventive measures to identify such issues in the past. The government has wanted to bet on getting up the percentage of clarification in relation to this type of case, and we want to put in a number of instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e125	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e128	I fully agree with the Minister of Justice that preventing new abuses is an incredibly important task. Criminal law has a major role in this respect in being responsible for part of those who have been in custody. Yesterday, the director of Oslo said that he is afraid that several unstable criminals will walk without supervision in Oslo's streets. They don't feel safe that they can be able to follow up everyone, according to the head of the office. Can the Minister of Justice assure the people and the Stortinget that the freedom of movement will be provided with the necessary means, so that no one goes without the necessary supervision on the street?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e135	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e140	Bea Lymph – last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e143	There are several sides to debate on this matter. Unfortunately, we are left with a strong impression that the victims, their families and a whole generation of young people have been hard hit by the widespread abuses in this matter, and without the great community being able to intervene and provide adequate assistance and guidance in retrospect. The Minister of Justice has the top responsibility for rescue and preparedness in this country. In the event of major accidents or natural disasters, national emergency teams are deployed. Among other things, we have a system of rescue centres to build up below this. In the case of victims of criminal acts, for example: a large number of victims of widespread sexual abuse affecting an entire society, we have no national preparedness or rescue centre to resort to. On this basis, I would like to ask the Minister of Justice if he, in cooperation with the Minister of Health, would like to take the initiative to set up an ambulatory psychiatric crisis team to assist in this type of crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e150	This is an important field to work on, obviously. But I do not agree with the representative when she says that we have no national readiness to meet victims for this type of crime. After all, it would be a severe devastation of the work that, among other things, The Left-State Council Odd Einar Dørum did in the Ministry of Justice in the previous period, where much of the national strategy for meeting victims was just being built up. The Government wants to continue. It is a significant effort in terms of compensation for victims of violence and counselling offices for victims of violence. The government wants this year to get the project started with Barnas Hus, where we will be able to ensure evidence in this type of case, but also focus on treatment in relation to how we meet children who are subjected to abuse. We also want to strengthen psychiatry, so that you can help meet children this way. I would definitely like to give a positive answer to the representative's questions about my cooperation with the Minister for Health. I think that's an important point, and I'll take that with me. We have national strategies for this, and I think we're on our way, but there's still a lot of work to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e157	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e160	I will ask questions to the Minister for Renewal and Administration. A new, strict and consumer-friendly competition law was adopted in the previous period by the Co-operation Board. State Council Victor D. Norman went to work and got through several actions implemented competition in aviation. The result was that passengers were given greater choice, that prices were lower, and that the route offer increased. The co-operation administration also improved competition in the book industry, and read-only consumers received lower prices and better offers. The biggest policy change of the Stoltenberg II government is likely to be the reversal of competition policy. The Government has run over the Competition Authority in almost all of the pending merger cases. The government has allowed Statkraft’s purchase of Trondheim Energy, despite the fact that it provides consumers with a higher electricity price. The Government has authorised prior’s purchase of Norgården and closures and mass redundancies there, despite the fact that consumers receive higher prices and poorer selection, the Government has closed down a joint nordic research programme on competition policy, the Government has dropped the obligation to publish smaller, public procurement, so that they are less competitive, and the Government has the objective of removing the public procurement obligation by raising the tendering threshold to the absolute minimum EU level. Recently, representatives of the government parties indicated that although the merger would give one company 48 pst, Gilde and Prior would be able to relax completely in relation to the view of the Competition Authority on the merger. market share of meat, 65 pst. market share of poultry and near 80 pst. market share of eggs, thereby dramatically reducing consumer choice in food shops. The weakening of competition policy will cause significant losses to consumers, businesses and the Norwegian economy through higher prices, less diversity and less innovation. The current professor at Norway's Hochschule, former competition director Einar Hope, feared in the evening post on 25 April for the legitimacy of the entire Norwegian Competition Authority. Can the Council of State provide us with the political basis for the reversal that is now taking place in consumer and competition policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e171	Here it was very much to grips with, but instead of going into polemics with the representative Hansen on every single theme, let me at least say introductoryly that the Right and Government disagree on a part of the competition policy. In other areas, such as: aviation, as the representative Hansen mentions, is the Regeringen and Right a few, and I have asked the Competition Authority to pay particular attention to what is associated with competition in aviation, in my letter of award this year. Similarly, I have asked the Competition Authority to be particularly attentive to the condition of non-life insurance, which we have also seen some unfortunate statements around. Let me also say that we are not against competition. On the contrary, and competition supervision is not at least an important tool for overseeing that one of the areas where we have opened up competition should comply with the competition rules. But then the government has said that in some other areas we don't want to use competition as a tool. It is within health, within care and within education. Thus, competition should not act as a tool, but of course it should be assessed in the light of a number of other policy objectives. Then we talk about the care of the environment, the care of security and the care of distribution, to take some. Therefore, one must, when one is to take political decisions, weigh the issue of competition up against other concerns that we politicians must take. That's what we're doing. Reversing in respect of all merger cases which have our anchors, said the representative Hansen. Yes, there are two, and yes, I've converted two. That's the exact same thing as for example. Former state councillor Morten Andreas Meyer did. He referred two merger cases in the course of a six-month period in 2004, the one underpinning agricultural and district policy and the other underpinning industrial policy and district policy. So I can't see that converting such things is a new policy. Right-state councils have done that before me.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e182	As far as I remember, the Council of State has converted three merger cases. One was the purchase of Trondheim Energy, the other was the merger between Varco and National Oilwell in the oil service industry, and the third was Prior's purchase of Norgården. I think there is quite a lack of coherence in what the Council of State is doing here, because representatives of the Government have, in several respects, called for the use of consumer power and the choice of alternatives that the Government or the councils of individual states do not like. For example, the Socialist Left Party and Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen took the following steps: the order to boycott goods from Israel, Minister for Children and Gender Equality Karita Bekkemelm recommends that people replace banks with overcharges, and last week the Minister for Children and Family took on the top of it all for a consumer boycott of Gilde as a result of the E. coli case. This is almost a parody when the Government conducts at the same time a competition policy that will give consumers minimal freedom of choice in the food shops. Does not the Council of State not see that there is a link between competition policy and consumer choice?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e189	Yeah, it could be a context. But, as I say, consumer concerns must, of course, be a factor in competition policy. It is precisely consumer concerns that can also be the basis for us to secure ourselves and have a strong Norwegian food giant in competition with the WTO. In fact, former Minister of Agriculture Lars Sponheim has criticised the Government for too little to guide Norwegian agriculture, for example. on which will meet one at a new WTO negotiation. Otherwise I can't see that I'm having a different argument than what Morten Andreas Meyer did, for example. when he accepted the merger when Stormøllen got one of his biggest competitors. Then he said, «As indicated above, the acquisition contributes to the strengthening of an already significant restriction on competition in several of the relevant markets.» In conclusion, however, he says that 'for the sake of, inter alia, The Ministry of Labour and Administration has decided to convert the decision of the Competition Authority to Norwegian cereals’. Equally close to a merger on NOBØ came the corresponding comments from Morten Andreas Meyer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e204	Here, too, the President will accept three follow-up questions – first, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e207	I expect that the Grande Røys Council of State from the Socialist Left is in favour of competition in aviation, because it means lower prices and better route provision for the population. We've seen in connection with some of the latest issues we've had with SAS, that customers have been quite unmerciful and used their power as consumers. Why, then, does the same Council of State feel that older people should not be able to be equally unmerciful in terms of poor quality of care for the elderly, that they should not be able to remove poor homes for the benefit of good health homes? Why can't schoolchildren be equally unappreciative in the choice of school services if they can have the opportunity to opt out of poor schools for the benefit of good schools? Why does the Council of State not believe that people in need of hip surgery, a back operation – whatever it may be – should themselves be able to assess the quality of these services, when they are able to assess it in aviation, insurance, housing and in all the other important areas of this society?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e212	Then we're into another part of what's the disadvantages of competition, that what's optional for a few, quickly goes out on a very large number of others. We can see that, for example. in the privatisation of the schools that the previous government with good support from the Progress Party would have. It is clear that setting up private schools with public funding, where county municipalities were pulled 80 pst. of their willingness to finance corresponding private lines, would have meant that those students who either couldn't afford to go to private school, or perhaps didn't have grades that were good enough to be admitted to private school, would have to find themselves with a poorer offer through the public, in what was left of the general secondary school. I can only refer to Trondheim, who received an application to set up 2000 student seats in private schools. It is clear that it would have destroyed the whole of the general provision for further education in Trondheim. When it comes to older people, how municipalities manage to put up their offer for older people, I can't interfere, but a lot of places in Norway have only one hospital to choose, and then there's no choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e219	Ingredient S. Sørfonn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e222	Competition supervision is a very important institution. Competition supervision is a free and independent institution with the main task of caring for consumers’ interests. The Competition Authority was never going to be just a government hearing body. Does it not appear to the Council of State that it is somewhat doubtful to send out a signal that the decisions of the Competition Authority will be reversed, and that these rumors go out before the process of the Competition Authority has ended? We've seen an example of this. A weakening of the real position of the Competition Authority is also a weakening of the interests of consumers. Doesn't the Council of States see it this way? To the boycott play by the National Council of the Bekkelem on the weekend: Is it that encouraging single-business boikots is part of the government's competitive policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e227	I fully agree with what the representative Ingebrigig Sørfonn says about the Competition Authority. It is very important that competition supervision is a strong and independent supervision, and it is also under this government. I do not interfere with the assessment of the Competition Authority when the Competition Authority has a case for assessment. I can argue that they look at some sectors, as I have related to non-life insurance, but as long as the Competition Authority has a case under consideration, this government has nothing to do with the assessments made by the Competition Authority. It only has to be completely fixed. Then there's a political assessment, and it's under competition law that whoever gets a decision has the right to appeal. It goes against the Ministry of Renewal and Administration. Then I'm going to consider both the competitive assessments of the Competition Authority, and I'm going to do that, and in addition, I'm going to take other social considerations that, as I've also been involved, state councils before me by the civil government, which I'm going to do. It is not about undermining the Competition Authority, but about making policy assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e234	André N. Skelstad - until last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e237	Competition policy is important. Given the challenges we face in relation to the WTO, a merger between Gilde and Prior is right, but would have been more doubtful if we had not faced those challenges. With a review of the Competition Authority as the Government did when Prior wanted to buy Norgården, by the government giving a clear signal for merger, we are left to face such a situation. Can the Council of State agree that the Government’s review of the Competition Authority on a number of occasions weakens the supervision’s ability to monitor consumers and to reduce competition in general?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e242	No, I can't see that checking the Competition Authority in individual cases is weakening the Competition Authority. We have a policy set out in the Soria Moria Declaration, in the Declaration of Accession, as in particular. signals a different view of public ownership in the power sector. It was reasonably well communicated. It should not come as a surprise that we had a different view of Statkraft's ownership of Trondheim Energieverk. We also have a different view of, for example: cooperative enterprises in the agricultural industry than in the previous government. It should not come as a surprise that the view of collaboration should be recorded when we treat Prior/Norgården-saka. What would concern the argument about any appeal in connection with Prior/Gilde, I have not intended to submit. No one from the Government has commented on that matter. We have nothing to comment on a case that lies with the Competition Authority. If the Competition Authority makes the decision they have notified that they will make, the companies will be able to appeal. I get to sue on my table sometime during the summer, and I can rather start commenting on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e249	The President will allow himself to remember that when the red lamp goes out, the speaking time is over. Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e254	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. Security for our children is an important value to fight for. We are shaken when adults abuse the trust of children by committing serious abuses and irregularities. Therefore, from the Christian People's Party, we have seen it as very important that the police prioritise precisely these kinds of things, including among others. by creating a Barne-Kripos. Large quantities of child pornography have been seized by various police operations. The further follow-up is, unfortunately, considerable shortcomings. Several police districts have apparently not yet gone through the seized material, and efforts to identify the victims, the children, are slow. It's serious when a central Kripos employee says to the Evening Post: ‘We mean a lot internationally, but we cannot have control in our own country. It's fluent.' Unfortunately, we do not have a database in Norway where information on this is collected. This should not go too far in party politics. The matter is too important for that. I therefore have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: What will the Council of State actually do, so that children who have been the victims of these serious abuses can be identified, and that this will help to ensure that the children can receive the necessary help and, secondly, that the offenders can be prosecuted?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e271	I agree with the questioner that this should not involve party political prestige. The government has put this question on the agenda. One of the reasons the government chose to strengthen the Norwegian police last year was $90 million. kr in addition to what the Bondevik administration proposed, we see that in some areas we have too low a percentage of information. This does not just apply to child abuse. This also applies to abuse against adults. For example: raped, we have a sentence rate that is very low. That is 95 pst. Of the girls who are being raped in Norway today, there is no criminal record. There is reason for concern that we are resolving so little, and the challenge is really there, as opposed to discussing how long the punishment should be when he is being taken. There are several measures that we want to implement. We want a bet, precisely on the basis of the money allocated to the police, in relation to identifying and identifying several victims, among others. for child pornography. Kripos is doing a considerable job there, but is totally dependent on local police departments having the opportunity to get into the material. So the government wants to put in action, and among other things. propose legislative changes in relation to issues related to Internet abuse. This is in the same street. It's very difficult to investigate, so here we need both political attention and police attention, and we also need new criminal regulations and new investigation opportunities for the police. The government will come back to the Storing on the issue of Internet-related abuse. Then I would also like to point out what I said in the previous main question, that we aim to establish a Barna's house in Norway. There should be a centre where, among others: the question of certainty of evidence in these matters is put on the agenda, so that we get better investigation when conditions are revealed after all. It's very difficult to investigate, but we can do a lot more. That's what money is allocated to this year, and we're aiming to continue that effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e282	I thank you for the answer, although I have to say that sometimes it is a little difficult to get what concrete follow-up the Council of State will actually contribute to very specific questions. I am therefore going to raise one question related to a very concrete follow-up. It is a fact that many local police offices lack sufficient competence to investigate as well as to address issues related to sexual abuse against children. Therefore, from the Christian People's Party, we have called for the establishment of a cry-out unit under Kripos with special competence in matters relating to just child abuse, which can travel and assist the local police office on short notice. In order to strengthen the efforts to detect child abuse, will the Council of State endorse such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e289	In the fight to improve the legal certainty of children and to prevent some of the most serious forms of crime that exist, I do not want to reject any proposal. But to the representative's remarks that one needs to be more concrete: a cry-out force from Kripos is concrete, but it's also Barna's house, and that's also the question of intervening in relation to Internet-related abuses with its own legal provisions. Granting more money to the Norwegian police is more concrete, and I'm sure we won't be able to get the clearance rates in these cases if we're just betting on building on central units. We also need to strengthen the police out there, so that you can actually take this into your usual daily police portfolio in the police districts. Just as it is with financial crime, just as it is with environmental crime, it is also true in this field that we can't just base it on central units. It may be useful to look at measures for, inter alia: providing police districts with better assistance on very difficult issues. So it's the government's ambition that we get the percentage of information.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e296	The President will also allow three follow-up questions – first Jan Arild Ellingsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e299	In many ways child abuse is a disgrace to society, and we have to use every possible means to prevent it from happening. To what the Council of State answered in the first question, and now to the representative Syversen, there's a width of what you have to do in relation to this. In yesterday's debate, there was also talk of the relationship between staff in Norwegian prisons and so-called experts when people convicted of abuse are to be released. I expect that when you let people out, you've also thought about children's legal certainty. In what way does the Council of State think that we should intervene in today's system, when we have arrangements that allow the prison staff, who work closely across, to be seriously concerned that they should be released, while the experts say that ‘this is going well’ and ‘if you get something done with your lay and attitude, we can safely get you out again’. Does the Council of State think that the system we have today largely safeguards children’s legal certainty and the need for protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e306	With regard to very specific matters, which was the reason for yesterday's debate, and which means that the question is brought before the Stortinget today, I think it is important to stress that neither the Ministry of Justice, the Stortinget nor the Government has any authority to instruct Norwegian courts. This does not mean that we should not be concerned about what kind of premise the courts use when they dismiss their judges on a general basis. I'm very concerned about that. In this way, I am proud of the job done in prisons and in criminal matters, for which I have a political responsibility. I am of the opinion that the assessments that are now being made, among other things. to the custodians of criminal custody are very good and thorough assessments. So these are people who meet the sentence daily, and who also have different competences than the prison profession, to lock people in and out and help them daily, for example. psychological competence, etc. I am of the opinion that there should be particular reasons before deviating from the settings that come from the criminal justice system.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e313	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e316	It's true that as politicians, we shouldn't interfere in how the courts judge. But it is also the case that we are legislators and create the framework for how the courts are to judge. And then, of course, it's our responsibility to take it up if the judgments are not related to each other. I would like to refer to the picture taken by the representative Aspaker – the judgment for obtaining the car in the Munch case, and for the art taxes, the national taxes, which disappeared in that case, and the fact that being sentenced to three to seven years and released after three years for 100 crimes is not proportionate. That means we have to look at it, because there's something that doesn't match what we perceive as our national taxes, when the situation of children is assessed so much lower than the pictures that are important, becomes. I have one question for the Council of State, because I hear in all these question hours about as many plans to come. So there was on the table a concrete proposal from the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Ministry of Justice that would do something in one area, namely a proposal not to give sustenance in expulsion cases when the victims were children and women in the family. Why hasn't it come? It should have come six months ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e325	First of all, I am pleased that the representative of Solberg says that you should not interfere in the decisions of the courts. But I feel that a lot of the premise in the question, both in the Munch case and in the case that was revealed yesterday, just shows that we are going quite far into assessing proportionality, and I do not want to do that. But that does not mean that the framework for the activities of the courts is not affected by our work both in the Government and in the Stortinget. And that's what we're going to be concerned about. I must be allowed to stress that before that matter came up yesterday, the government had decided that we should already put the detention centre under the spotlight to look at opportunities to strengthen the system, so that we do not miss out on very important societal security issues. With regard to the question raised by the representative of Solberg, of giving suspensive effect to decisions that are initially in a department other than the one I am in charge of, we will come back to that question when a revision of foreign law is now being carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e334	Odd Einar Dørum – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e337	I think it is very good that the Minister of Justice will put the detention centre under evaluation, and I also think it is very positive that the work with Barna's House, which started earlier, is carried on with great pressure. I am also pleased that the Council of State replied to the representative Lyskleät, when she raised the concern about competence in small municipalities where one is often alone, that the Council of State was open to discuss with the Minister of Health to assist. My question is not on the criminal side. It is underlined by previous respondents and also by answers. I'm concerned about what we can do to prevent, to avert. In this area, we in Norway have developed a very unique cooperation between the judicial authorities, large telecommunications operators, mobile companies and card companies, which led to Telenor’s creation of a filter in its own time, which was published in cooperation with Kripos, and which Swedish authorities also found it interesting to copy. It might be interesting to know how the Minister of Justice now thinks that this cooperation with civil society to mobilize all good forces is being continued, so that all forces are involved in the fight against the intrusion of the weakest children.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e345	I am of the opinion that the work done earlier in relation to the contact with, among other things. the commercial operators are particularly important. Many of the challenges we face in the field of Internet-related crime, but also crimes that have their roots in, and are seen in, among others. the use of technology, such as mobile telephony, etc., is a long way to go in dialogue with commercial operators. The previous government and the then Minister of Justice showed that this was the case. We're going to continue that work, and we're going to do it very well. I think it needs to be reinforced. That is why we are setting up a working group to look into strengthening legislation in this area, but also strengthening some of the cooperation that is taking place with the commercial operators, mobile phones, Internet operators, etc., in order to get to the inside of a whole new arena, where we see that crime is being committed, but where we also have the opportunity to detect crime. So – yes – that work we want to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e350	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e353	My question goes to the Minister of Renewal and Administration. In the evening post yesterday we could read that in the East there are people who lose their night sleep because they have to stand in line outside the state roadway in hopes of getting signs to the car the next day. The alternative is to stand in line for two months. The big car importers have contracts that guarantee them, but most people and the smaller car importers have to sacrifice night sleep, leisure time and, not least, work profits to fix this. A frustrated car importer aptly described the situation to the evening post. He said that the state road system is Norway's last communist enterprise. Had the state roadway company been a private company, it had gone bankrupt quickly. What the State Road Service is, on the other hand, is a monopolist who can allow himself to do such things in relation to its customers, in relation to its users, without any consequences. It's a totally unacceptable situation. We have to admit that it is actually the state that exists for the inhabitants. It's not the inhabitants that exist for the state. My question will then be as follows: Is the Minister of Renewal and Administration satisfied with the Government's work to achieve a more open and user-friendly administration? And what solutions does the Council of State see in this specific matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e366	Let me start by saying that I distance myself from the characteristic given by the representative Amundsen of the State Road Administration. I believe that the state road system is an up-to-date, modern and efficient company. What is related to this specific matter could be within the remit of the Minister of Transport, since the State Road Service is below it, but since the representative Amundsen addresses issues of renewal work, namely effective management and opening hours in public administration, I would like to answer the question. The issue is linked to the control of imports of used cars, and for such vehicles – i.e. imported used cars – we require a different procedure than for the registration of new vehicles. To put it that way, the State Road Service has taken action in the short and long term. In the short term, it is important to have the capacity of the control halls and the relevant traffic stations strengthened rapidly. The road service will therefore use extended opening time. They will increase the availability of so-called drop-in controls, where no time is needed to order. The road service will generally increase the priority of the kind of administrative tasks that the public cannot do on their own, for example via the Internet, where they must physically meet. These measures were already introduced in Drammen a few days ago, and it is now available from the Directorate of Roads, so that other traffic stations too will stick to it. This is primarily an Austrian phenomenon. That's where the big pressure is. In the longer term, Vegvesenet has started work on increasing the recruitment and training of personnel for technical vehicle control. It is quite obvious that part of the queue is due to the fact that one has too few people to do the job. A great transformation has taken place in the Road Administration. They now make a thorough assessment of their own service provision, its quality, its potential for improvement, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e379	I just have to first be allowed to stress that I was not the one who described the State Road Service as a communist enterprise. It was a user of the State Road Service, a resident who uses the services of the State Road Service, who experienced this in his encounter with the State Road Service as the last communist enterprise. It says something, and it should be something the Minister of Renewal and Administration takes note of, because we as citizens are dependent on having good services from the public, and here the administration has a clear responsibility. I hear what the council says. But it's kind of strange when you see that in Billingstad, for example. - where people have been waiting in line, maybe from about 8 p.m. 4 a.m., and be rejected and not served the same day – is the opening time to serve these queues only until 4 p.m. 11:30. Then they close. It must be possible to get some grip, to put in place some concrete urgent measures, to deploy extra resources and staffing, so that you can solve the precarious situation here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e386	Yes, and that's exactly what I told the representative Amundsen that the state road system is now doing. First, they're expanding opening hours; second, they're putting more people on their jobs and, in the longer term, educating more people to do these types of tasks, so that they don't get into a similar situation. And it's also so that the public administration can't always rig to a large enough device to get away from absolutely all the tops, and here we've got an increase in used car imports. We now have 30 000-40,000 used car imports, so it's clear that if we're going to train an organisation for this based on an estimate that one leads, one might feel that one gets too many added to public administration. It wouldn't be effective either, so one might have to kind of figure out that one can't treat absolutely everything that one has a desire for, on the day. But as I say, it is quite obvious that there is now too long waiting time and too poor quality of service to the audience. Of course, the audience feels negative, and it does something to Vegvesenet.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e393	The President will allow two follow-up questions – first Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e396	The first thing that happened at the government change was that the Ministry of Modernization changed its name to the more diffuse Ministry of Renewal and Administration. Since then, modernisation work in the public sector has become increasingly unclear. MinSide is exposed for an indefinite period, and one is now seeing more and more concrete indications that the public is being hit by too little innovation in the public sector. It's e.g. 380 000 people need to meet to pick up passports in this country. The right has called for one to set two concrete targets for public sector opening hours. The places where many requests are made, such as: passport offices and traffic stations shall be open until noon. 18 on weekdays and in some cases on Saturdays. In other places with public enquiries, telephone services shall be provided until 9.00 p.m. 18 a.m. on weekdays and be open from 6 p.m. 10 to 10 o'clock. 14 on Saturdays. When we asked the minister about this a few weeks ago, we got a clear no to these two proposals. Will the Minister again assess whether she will also be involved in having two concrete objectives for better opening hours in the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e403	This council has said positively that we should look at the extension of the opening time in the public sector. That is what the Soria Moria Declaration says, and we are doing. Some of it can be done within the current main tariff agreement, while other things can go beyond what it says, and then it has to be negotiated with the parties. Now we've done some simplification work linked to the main agreement. We are in the process of wage negotiations in the state, and we must clear that up first. So I'm going to start talking to the parties. I have warned them, and in the fall we start with the work that goes on opening hours. It's not that we can just drag new and expanding opening hours down the head of the people who are going to do the job, that is, our employees. The best conversion is when employees are involved in the conversion. We already have some positive test projects. Among other things, we have some passport offices running with extended opening time today. I have challenged the NAV statement that when one is nailing a new ethos, it is quite obvious that one has to look at the opening time. So here's the work under full pressure. A lot of good projects will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e412	Jan Sahl – the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e415	It is a pity that such strong media coverage is needed before a public agency intervenes and initiates action. What we've seen in the newspapers lately, overnight in the car to get signs to the car, is quite a shocking reading to my discretion. We are aware that this is the Minister of Transport's area, but I see from answers to questions asked by users that it is about initiating a process of recruiting new people. It'll take time. Now the Minister of Renewal has said something about immediate action here, and I just want to use this opportunity again to stress the importance that we get the immediate measures in place quickly, so that we can get away and release new media postings like the ones we have had in the last part of this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e423	Here is every reason to believe that the Vegvesen had taken hold of the matter before the evening post wrote about her yesterday. As I was inside, I have learned to use extended opening time and to increase the so-called drop-in controls that have been carried out the last days, including. in the drama. So here's a starting work just because one saw that one had capacity problems. It's not like a newspaper lookup must be big for something to happen. The state authorities saw that they had a challenge here. They grabbed her. They have carried out an analysis and started action in the short term, and actions are clearly in progress in the long term. One of them is asking the queueers to contact the regions to find a solution to their problem as soon as possible. But, as I said, it's not all situations you can look at in advance. And the increase in used car imports that we've had wasn't necessarily very easy to predict.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e430	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e433	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. One of the most serious things that can happen to a state of law is that organized crime takes hold of us. The Norwegian court has opposed this. What happened in Stavanger, and what has happened in a number of other places, the state of law has stood up against, on the ground of the state of law. There is every reason to thank all those who have made an effort here. But it is also worth considering that in the same period – and we get to pinch our arms and hope that it will last – which we have not had many serious events, there have been all the more rough and armed rants in our neighbouring country of Sweden. It's stolen money in the order of half a billion dollars, and it's gross. It made an impression on me when I read the government's Soria Moria statement and did not find a word about organized crime. But I assume that a Minister of Justice will quickly come into contact with such questions and will also actively deal with them. So my wonder is what the Minister of Justice – having had the opportunity to try an extremely extensive and demanding field of work for six months – is now thinking about the threat that organised crime represents. What action does he see that we have to take to meet it, and can he fill in the words that are not contained in the Soria Moria statement, so that Norwegian citizens can be assured that what happened to the NOKAS ran is capable of responding to as a society? I have experienced in an earlier role in my life that there was broad support for it. It must also be the case, as a signal to the sitting Minister of Justice, that he will of course have broad support when he mobilises to ensure that citizens are not violated by what organized crime does. So I ask the Minister of Justice to supplement the missing words of the Soria Moria Declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e448	First of all, I must express my enthusiasm that the Soria Moria Declaration is being read carefully. It's a good document. When it says in the Soria Moria Declaration that we want to create more security in society, that we want to reduce crime and get the percentage of information, it's especially for organised crime. There's no doubt about it. What is the main challenge, in my opinion, that I have learned after six months in the Ministry of Justice, is that it is not just useful with good action plans and good legal provisions. We depend on doing the work much more operationally to get inside. I'm not saying that the previous government didn't contribute to making it operational, because I think we got a bit on the way, and there was a great deal of political consensus about the measures that were proposed, but we have significant challenges in terms of making the work more operational. We see that it's useful when we do it, and the reference to the relationship between gross debt in Norway and Sweden can be an example of the huge investment that has been made in relation to the NOKAS case. The government would like to continue the initiative that is quite concretely up against the NOKAS case. It shall be brought entirely in proceedings, not only to the last court. It shall also be introduced into shelter and custody. We need, among other things: strengthening Ila with security means, and we will. We will follow up on the work and come to Stortinget with the necessary propositions and allocation proposals in relation to it. I also think it is necessary to strengthen the police. One of the reasons we strengthened the police, as I said instead, by 90 million. In addition to the previous government budget, it was just to be more able to detect everyday crime, which someone chooses to call it, but also what we define as organized crime. And let me just smile and say here: what we characterize as everyday crime is related to a lot of organized crime. The daily criminals are often the gangsters of organized crime. That's why it's imperative for us in the new government to discover more of this everyday crime and get more out of circulation. More rapid criminal proceedings and the elimination of the pay queue are also an estimate of organised crime. Then I will also mention the bet that the government has made in relation to money laundering. Here we have good rules, but we haven't had people to map money laundering. We've given more money to that, because money laundering is the artery of organized crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e461	I am very pleased that the Council of State supplements the Soria Moria Declaration, because it is not a tribute document to combat organized crime. But the Council's response to me gives reasonable approaches to what you can do. That's why I asked. I didn't ask about this to censor a document. I asked to ask for exactly what I have been told on the way, that you are willing to keep the pressure up. I want to underline the support that the Council of State can expect to have, I think, in following the NOKAS case in terms of objectives. My concern, to draw it on the planet where I think it belongs – and I've always wondered as a Norwegian politician and citizen – is there going to be a new generation after the group we took on the NOKAS case? Can we risk Norwegian groups in an even rougher and tougher way than we've seen in some cases, allying with foreign groups? And perhaps the strongest of all: what is the Minister of Justice thinking about what I'm going to call the Russian Mafia, who specializes in what we call the third wave -- corrupting people in the small, then corrupting so many that you take struppets on society? This is what bothers me. I hope that the Minister of Justice will continue to supplement the Soria Moria document.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e468	I'm happy to get these questions, because it gives me the opportunity to say what we're doing in relation to this. These are things that we're usually taking in the highest seriousness. I mentioned it with whitewashing instead. The size has adopted rules in relation to money laundering, whereby financial institutions shall report to a Money Laundering Unit at Ecocrim. It is clear that the investment made by the new government in establishing eleven new posts is important to investigate the suspicious transactions. You can see that there are large flows of money, such as: is an artery in relation to organised crime. I also want to mention the methodology. We are totally dependent not only on adopting rules on new methods, but also on actually enabling the police to use the new methods. We must probably make a significant operational effort here. With regard to Russian affairs, I would like to point out that one of the greatest challenges we have – and I have already said that many times as Minister of Justice – is that we need to expand international cooperation. This applies to both intelligence and investigation, but also possibly to judgment. Here I have taken an initiative to raise the question of whether we can imagine, among other things. a Nordic State attorney's office in relation to the fight against organised crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e479	For the sake of the number of main questions, the President will also here only accept two follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e482	That the Council of State is concerned with operational measures, I very much appreciate it. It sounds good, and it's clearly a necessity. I also register that the Council of State says that the 90 million. kr for strengthening is very good, but I think it is little compared to the 250 million kr that was the year before – we probably disagree politically about this. Another thing that is important in the context of the fight against organised crime is police access to meet this type of crime in a fair and good way. I have seen that the Council of State has been a little variable in terms of e.g.: things such as personal protective equipment. I understand that the Council of State says it should be taken into account within its own budget, that the police themselves should find out – and I have seen that the Council of State has said something else in other contexts. It is true that if we expect the police as first-line officers to stand out and meet the toughest of the toughest crime, then they must be certain that they have the best equipment and that they have legal coverage. I am concerned that they are currently largely lacking personal protective equipment. I want to challenge the State Council now to support an investment budget for the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e489	So it was $90 million. We strengthened the police budget, and that was in addition to the strengthening that had been done in previous years, and that was in particular. The party of progress is honored. This has contributed to the fact that a good number of police districts now report that one actually feels that one has one’s head above the water, and then the Progress Party and the current government get some credit for it. And when I say 'head over water', it's actually also because more police districts now report that you're replacing your car park, you're about to upgrade your safety equipment, and you're also about to have the lists staffed so you can get enough crew. We have to be happy about that. So this kind of black and white thinking, that the police shouldn't have protective equipment, as the questioner says, is not right. But we want a renewal of the equipment. And I also register when I'm traveling, that many police officers report to us and say that you're about to get there. In Trondheim, for example, they are reported to have increased their investment budget to 4 pst. And there I'm ready: I don't think it's necessary, or right, with an investment budget of my own, but the police actually give the best priority to this themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e494	Trond Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e497	The fight against organised crime was one of the most important tasks of the previous government. Cash, effective research and large-scale resource efforts led to a roll-out of the organised research environment in Norway, and the NOKAS case was clarified. As the representative of Dørum was involved, the Soria Moria Declaration does not say much about organised crime – it does not say anything. But the Council of State has now assured us that this is a serious battle. The Council of State also talks about the importance of being operational, and mentions several positions for Økokrim, the idea of a Nordic State attorney's office, etc. What about the competence of police districts exposed to criminal environments, developing environments or already organised criminal environments? As a former justice politician, I still get some input from the police. It is okay to talk about protective equipment and investment — but what about local competence to combat organised crime? What does the Council of State do there?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e507	I answer the questions I get here in Stortinget, and when questions about protective equipment are raised, I answer them. As regards competence issues, it is quite clear that this is important. But it is not that when you train new policemen, you do not train people in relation to the issue of money laundering, in relation to organised crime – rather on the contrary: it is precisely these areas in which we want to strengthen our competence. I have had dialogue with both the police students and a number of police districts about exactly what you can do in order to strengthen your competence not only in this field, but also in the fields that several of the respondents have been concerned about earlier today, including in this area. violence in close relations and sexual abuse against children. There, I think it's absolutely necessary that we get the competence page rusted up. We will do that through our contact with, and the opportunity we have in the department in relation to, the Police College – its governance, and what the syllabus should contain – and not least in relation to the governance signals that go to the police districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e514	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e517	I want to ask the Minister of Justice a question. The Minister of Justice, in his previous answers here today, expressed concern and stated that he would look at and assess how to strengthen the legal certainty of children. However, the right is concerned with how to better address the concerns of the victims in general. It is a reality that the focus in the justice sector is too much on the criminal. A settlement is a critical time to prevent new crime and new abuses. For the population, victims and communities, it is important to feel the security of release at a time when rehabilitation has come to a satisfactory conclusion. The interaction between criminal services, police, health services and municipalities is essential to the success of rehabilitation. The Bondevik II administration was heavily committed within psychiatry, and placed great emphasis on municipalities being able to facilitate housing and work after settlement. I want to draw attention to the considerable imbalance between the follow-up and the attention given to the criminal and those affected, namely the victims. Such a diversity of treatment for victims means that the criminal justice gap is on a collision course with the population. Victims need much better assistance and follow-up and assistance for rehabilitation. It is for the right to determine whether the terms of release are available. However, there is reason to raise questions as to whether it is correct that only consideration should be given to the emphasis on early release assessment. I believe that both old and especially new victims are forgotten. I will now challenge the Minister of Justice to come from concern to action. The focus issue yesterday updates this issue, unless the situation of the victims should be clarified when the court decides whether to release a sentence. Will the Minister of Justice take the initiative to assess how the situation of the victims may be highlighted and emphasised in the legal context of the treatment of early release?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e534	I can answer yes, based on two factors. So, first of all, as I signaled instead, the department is going to go through the entire detention centre and the special reactions that apply in the criminal justice area. It is an initiative we took before the case came up. Although the law has only worked since 2002, I think it is important that we make such an assessment in order to look at possible adjustments where we believe that it fails. That relationship the questioner is now considering, whether to include insulted assessment, or offended perception of how the public will react to release, I think is an important moment. But I also notice that many of the offended people who today stand up bravely in the media – among others. The family of the deceased police officer in the NOKAS case – often has a much more nuanced picture of how to perceive this than what we politicians have. We tend to say that everything done for the accused is kind of an insult to the offended. I believe that the picture is more complex, that even insulted people have every interest in doing what you can to rehabilitate those sentences, so that they don't commit new crimes. That's what's going on on the side of the insulted. They say that the most important thing for them is to know that no new victims are created. That is why I believe that it is not contradictory, to take action against the defendant and against the court at the same time as thinking about the offended. At the same time, I would like to express my agreement on the petitioner's premise, that for a long time we have focused a great deal on criminal justice when it comes to criminal acts, and that the offended person, the victim of crime, has remained at the station a little longer – we haven't been good enough when it comes to actions against offended people. That is why I am pleased that we in the Ministry of Justice will receive in a few days' time the position of the Committee of Inquiry, where there will be many suggestions on how to strengthen the situation of justice – in addition to the other proposals that the Government is putting forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e543	I would like to thank you for your answer. I welcome the fact that Stortinget will be presented with a case as soon as possible in order to address these issues. In relation to this, by strengthening the victim’s position: it is a fact that judicial review procedures have been put in place in individual courts with persons assisting the victims in the settlement of legal proceedings. So far, this has been an appeal procedure in some courts. I would like to ask the Council of State specifically: when can we expect this to be a nationwide system? The feedback so far is that this is a very important and valuable support for those who have so lucky to have it so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e550	There is no doubt that the Government has an ambition that both the Victim Advice Offices, which also provide witness support, and the very concrete witness support projects around the courts should continue – and should also be permanent. I've learned in this half year that I'm not going to advance what future budgets will show, but this is what we want to get in place as quickly as possible. I think we have a challenge in this particular work: we need to coordinate it so that we don't set up many new projects where you really do the same thing. In addition, it is incredibly important that those who are insulted today, who feel that they are being subjected to a new attack, get far better support than they have been given in the past. For this reason, the Government has chosen to invest in both the counselling offices for victims of violence and the local witness support projects currently under way, which deliver very good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e557	The president looks at the clock - and will allow one follow-up question, from Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e560	I would like to follow up on the last question that was asked – the predecessors of the Council of State focused a lot on victims – but I would also like to follow up on the question the Minister of Justice had earlier, from the representative of the Left, Vera Lysklätt. This concerns the ability of small communities to deal with many victims, as we were informed yesterday – to create cross-sectoral systems around the victim related to the individual victim rather than to create systems to fit the victims into. My question is whether the Council of State can this time answer a little more comprehensively if he thinks it's a point to create systems around the victims instead of creating systems that the victims are going to fit in with. Does he think it is a point to create special crisis teams linked to small communities where such issues arise, and that it is important to focus on this in the future – or will he just follow up on all the good his predecessors did in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e567	When you point out the good work of my predecessor in this area, it shows to me that we do not have the national void that the left-wing representative Lyskleatt described in his main question. It will be very dangerous to describe the situation as completely empty, for there is both a lot of money and considerable political effort in this regard – from all parties. We are very much in agreement that this is important to lift up. In my work on the Committee's suspension, I think it is natural to take with me the ideas that the representative Skei Grande is now making use of. But I also think it is important that we get the responsibility clearly placed when it comes to the offended. That's why I've been anxious that we put in the clinics for the victims of violence. These offices are supposed to help to attract exchanges in the community to which the victims are going back, so that much of the work can be coordinated. We see that in the communities there are many resources, both municipal and voluntary, from which we can make good use of the situation of victims of violence and other victims of crime. I hope that this is a debate we can get started when we get to Stortinget with the results of the Committee's instigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e576	The size goes to the last main question in the oral Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e579	Thank you, President, for asking questions to the Minister of Defense so that she hasn't come here completely in vain today. I would like to say the following: in recent times we have still been able to read and hear about disturbing developments in troubled areas in Africa and elsewhere around the world. It turns out that in military, political and economic conflicts, more and more innocent people are being drawn into their power. One particularly alarming feature is the increasing number of child soldiers in Africa. These are children who are involved in conflicts in which they are completely innocent and have no opportunity to do anything with them. Many of these children have to do cruel acts to distance their relatives, so that they have to deal with those who use them as child soldiers, without any rights or follow-up. Systematic abuse and manipulation make these children become willless murderers, trapped in an unreal situation for us. These children are known to be very effective soldiers. They do not hesitate to use very brittle methods to achieve the goal of eradicating the enemy. In this context, I would like to ask the Council of State whether she believes that the Norwegian soldiers the Government wants to send to Sudan have the necessary training, attitude and experience to meet an enemy as untraditional as children's soldiers?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e591	The representative Width is asking a question about a very serious problem in Africa, and we have to deal with it in many ways. Military power alone cannot solve the problems associated with child soldiers in Africa. It needs a wide range of instruments to enable us to have a more stable situation on the African continent. With regard to the possible involvement of Norwegian soldiers in addition to what we have in Africa today – and Sudan is the area where we see the greatest need, because the conflict in Darfur can spread across the region, causing concern not only in Norway but in other European countries and in the United States – we have said that if there is a UN operation in Darfur in Sudan, Norway will consider assisting there if the United Nations so requests. It is reasonable to assume that if there were to be a UN operation in Sudan, we would be asked to support it. We have taken initiatives towards our Nordic neighbouring countries to potentially form a force with them, to meet the challenges that need to be met.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e598	It is positive to be able to contribute to stability outside the world. I fully agree with that. But I think we need to think first of all about our own soldiers – what they can get out of. And to be perfectly realistic: Are Norwegian soldiers trained to meet children with weapons – and get the choice between killing or being killed? That is the reality of the battlefield. So back to the soldiers, for the soldiers, there will be a much larger barrier from a psychological point of view to shoot child soldiers. In addition, the psychological reactions that follow may be so great for the individual soldier that they become almost impossible to deal with. Norway is not known to take good care of the soldiers who come back after being on international missions. Can the Council of State say anything about how she has thought that these soldiers will be taken care of afterwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e605	I want to say that we are doing very great preparations before we send soldiers out in international operations. It is quite obvious that if we are now to send soldiers to e.g. Sudan, it will require great preparation. I've been to the Marine War School in Bergen myself and I've been talking to the cadets about what situations you're facing, what ethical dilemmas you're facing. But the fact that there are children's soldiers in Africa can't be an argument that as a nation we should not contribute to subverting that conflict and trying to create stability on a continent that has been plagued by war, hunger and disaster for many decades. I would also like to point out that there are many aid workers in Sudan. When Norway has just said that we feel a special obligation, it is because we have a long tradition of contributing both to peace work and with assistance to this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e612	The President will accept one follow-up question – Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e615	The Council of State has just said that Norway will contribute if there is a UN mandated operation in Sudan. The previous government also said that we would contribute if there were a UN mandated operation in Sudan, but on one condition, that it was to maintain some kind of peace agreement – a solution. The current situation in Darfur is not like this. Today, the question of whether to join the UN forces in order to create a more stable situation – without the agreement of the parties – and in particular because we do not really want a UN force with representatives from Western countries present at the moment. I would like the Council of State to assess whether Norway is going to participate in an operation that is UN mandated, but where we are not wanted by the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e627	Our government has said very clearly that we will not go into any operation if it does not have a clear UN mandate or a clear anchoring in international law. We all know the situation in Sudan, because it says it in the media every day. It has not been possible to reach a peace agreement, as Mr Solberg rightly points out. It is clear that the parties must want peace, and the UN must also make a decision to go in, in order for us to also contribute there. The African Union is struggling with a poor economy and has many challenges in this area. It is clear that we will have to decide on this after the UN has made a final assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e636	So the oral question time is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e654	It's a big and comprehensive topic that we address in this interpellation. With this, the Christian People's Party wants to focus on the enormous environmental challenge we are facing, and launch a constructive, concrete and comprehensive debate on how we can contribute to feasible solutions. We need to find measures that create a development in the right direction. Today, developments are going in the wrong direction. Today’s development in the transport sector is not sustainable, i.e. that we are unable to meet today's needs without destroying the opportunities for future generations to meet their needs. The environmental challenges are particularly related to climate change, air pollution and noise, as well as biodiversity and cultural memories. We have chosen to focus most on climate challenges here today. Managing responsibility is fundamental in Christian People's Party's policy. Our goal is to manage the earth properly and ensure sustainable development. We know that we share this goal with most of the parties in Stortinget. At all times, the earth's climate has changed. Such climate change has, until recently, had natural causes, such as: change in the sun’s strength, changes in the earth’s orbit around the sun and volcanic eruptions. But now we see that humanity is facing global climate change for the first time caused by its own activities. Signs of this include, for example: the global average temperature, which has increased by about 0.6 C over the last 150 years, and that rainfall has increased by between 5 and 10 pst. over the northern latitudes over the last 20 years. High average temperature of Svalbard this spring also points in the same direction. The threat of rapid and large man-made climate change is one of the greatest societal threats we are facing today. If we do nothing about our climate emissions, we will be able to experience significant damage as a result of climate change in the coming decade. Development is in the wrong direction. Norway’s emissions have increased sharply over the 1990s, and it is expected that the increase will continue if no action is taken to reduce emissions. Over the period 1990–2003, greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector increased by a total of 28 pst. Road traffic represents 19 pst. of national climate emissions and transport sector in total for 26 pst. The transport sector is thus one of the main challenges for sustainable development in the world today. The environmental impacts of the transport sector contribute to high social costs and the energy consumption of the sector is increasing. We need to reverse this trend, not just by adopting individual measures that may contribute a little, but by thinking holistically and strategically and adopting a series of measures that together make a big difference and turn development in the right direction. That's why today's interpellation is so wide. We believe that an overall debate is necessary. We need to put individual measures in context, so that different proposals are not perceived as competing with other good measures. We need a lot of action together and at the same time. The CO2 tax, introduced in 1999, is the main climate action in the transport sector. But what other measures are involved? What can politicians do to create so-called sustainable development? One kind of first strategy we could choose was to make people travel less. We could adopt a ban on polluting motor vehicles, we could introduce allowances for air travel, or we could try other ways to get the North to travel less. But Norway is a long-distance country, and the development of society points towards people having to travel more. And the car is necessary for many, especially in the districts. The same applies to air traffic. In many regions, airplanes are the only real option. These are important considerations, which make the first strategy probably not the best. We should aim to reduce unnecessary traffic and perhaps even consider establishing car-free zones or barriers to urban traffic where there are major problems with contaminated urban air, as has been done, for example. somewhere in Oslo. Strategy No. However, 1 is difficult, and it is not enough alone. That is why we have a strategy No. 2, which is about getting people to not necessarily travel less, but to travel another way. We have to change travel patterns. How do we stop the growth of private car and air traffic? How do we create new travel patterns? We need to coordinate land and transport policies in order to reduce transport needs and facilitate the use of environmentally friendly modes of transport. We have to facilitate people walking or cycling if they want to, by expanding continuous walking and cycling networks in all major agglomerations. We have to improve the collective provision so that it provides a good alternative to the car. Travel time, regularity, punctuality and reliability are essential. Collective prices must be so low that it pays to choose the collective offer over the private car. We should ensure a student discount on all collective offers and work to introduce a youth card for everyone under 20 years of age in all public transport, to stimulate young people to good habits and to travel collectively. Another approach under the strategy of making people travel in another way is to facilitate more people driving together. Christian People's Party wants, for example, to initiate test schemes where collective fields are opened for private cars with more than three persons and closed for minibuses with less than three persons. There might be a way to bring down the number of cars on the roads. We need to improve train provision so that the train becomes an attractive alternative to both car and plane. By investing on the railway to make the train competitive also in relation to aircraft, we can significantly reduce climate emissions. In this context, it will be very interesting to see the outcome of the ongoing investigation of the potential for high-speed rail in Norway. So to the last strategy, that's new technology. While we are taking measures to stop the growth of private cars and air traffic, while trying to change the travel pattern, we need to apply new technologies in the cars, buses, trams and aircraft that we're going to use in the future. It's not enough just to get a little more environmentally friendly cars and a little bit more environmentally friendly fuel, we need to switch to alternative fuel and find zero emission solutions. The Christian People's Party has long worked for this, and we have programmed that we will strengthen efforts to develop and implement zero-emission technologies in the transport sector. Strengthening research efforts to identify more environmentally friendly fuel options is extremely important. The Ministry of Transport has supported research on environmentally friendly fuels and technologies since 1991. In recent years, appropriations have increased considerably. The previous government placed great emphasis on supporting research into alternative fuels and environmentally friendly technologies, primarily projects aimed at facilitating the use of zero-emission technologies in the transport sector — in particular hydrogen, fuel cell technology and biofuels. We hope that the current government will follow up and increase the budget line further. The need to support this research is no less now than before, on the contrary. It is incredibly exciting what is happening in the sector, and the opportunities for Norwegian business are many and good. Among other things, it is working on developing biofuels from Norwegian forests. Some have launched the Union plant in Skien as relevant for the production of synthetic diesel. There is therefore a need to further increase the budget line Grants for rational and environmentally friendly transport. It can also help to accelerate developments in this area by providing good general framework conditions, in particular through charging policies. We know that the current government is working on this and is assessing the possibilities for changes to the charging system. I would like to wait to say more about the charging system until I have heard the Minister's comments about the prospects it has provided. It is important that we also assess regulation and appropriate conditions in the charging sector, for example. by following the SFT’s proposal to introduce a marketing ban for biofuels. Just before the government change in autumn, Minister of Transport Torild Skogsholm proposed that oil companies should be required to sell a certain proportion of biofuels. The SFT proposes that the obligation be designed in such a way that oil companies and others selling fuel are required to increase two per cent by volume of the total turnover of fuel for road transport in 2007 to biofuel, up to four per cent by 2010. We hope the Government chooses to follow up this initiative. Finally, the Christian People's Party believes that we need to realize the seriousness of the climate situation. The transport sector is currently one of the major environmental challenges in the world. We need to be aware of the situation and look at comprehensive measures, not just introducing individual measures. We have to combine the three strategies I have pointed out. If we can do that, there can be brighter prospects for the future climate situation in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e693	If we are to succeed in creating a development that meets both today’s and tomorrow’s needs in the transport sector, we must – as today’s government does – bet on several fronts. The Soria Moria Declaration sets out ambitious environmental objectives, both for the transport sector and for other sectors. Of course, we need to look at all the areas in a context. Switching to environmentally friendly fuels, eco-friendly running gear, bets on public transport where there is a basis for bets, and increasing investment in those parts of the country where public transport cannot be an adequate alternative are strategies for the Government in the environmental field. The government is now preparing sectoral climate action plans. The main objective of the sectoral climate action plans is to identify the cost-effective emission reductions in the individual sector that are not implemented with current drug use. The government will return to the Stortinget with proposals for sectoral climate action plans in the spring of 2007. There is no doubt that the environmental climate is the major challenge. It is right, as the representative Sahl said, that the transport sector is a contributor, together with others who have to take their share of the responsibility for reducing climate change. It's the government going on. In the draft budget of the Bondevik II Government, there was an increased investment in public transport. The government further increased its contribution to public transport compared with the Bondevik II Government proposal by 220 million. kr in increased runs to the iron track and to the rickshaw ferries. In addition, a significant increase in the licensing of the municipal sector makes it possible to invest more heavily in local public transport in municipalities and municipalities. The bet is now showing results, including: in Oslo, where public transport has increased by 11 pst. the first three months of the year compared with the same period in 2005. It's also a positive development for the railways. Freight transport is increasing significantly and has market shares of between 50 and 80 pst. on the heaviest distances. It is very positive and in line with the Government's objectives. It has also increased the number of passenger services by train. Norway is one of the few countries in the world with a CO2 tax on aviation, and the 2006 budget doubled. Other transport also has a CO2 tax, and petrol has the highest rate. This is an effective means of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The government aims to present proposals for the conversion of car taxes in a more environmentally friendly direction in the 2007 budget and is in the process of doing so. It's gonna be a lot of stuff. considered introducing a CO2 component into the single entry fee. In recent years, the Ministry of Transport has increased its investment monthly in the development of alternative fuels and environmentally friendly technologies. Over the 2006 budget of the Ministry of Transport, 22.3 million have been committed. kr for project support related to the development and use of alternative fuels and environmentally friendly technologies in the transport sector. In total, 48.6 million were reported in 2005. kr over three years. A large part of this goes to the project HyNor. Distributed to three different subprojects, the total is approximately 30 million. kr, i.e. that the first part of the hydrogen road between Oslo and Stavanger can be established and the first hydrogen cars can roll on the roads in 2006. It's probably not a secret for those who follow in the media, that the Minister of Finance has announced a tax exemption for hydrogen. It will make it more attractive to bet on hydrogen cars, on a forward-looking and environmentally friendly car park, which in turn will help reduce climate change. But also several other interesting projects have received support, including: projects likely to stimulate the development of profitable production and use of biofuels in Norway and demonstration of marine fuel cell technology, where there is a high potential to reduce emissions through improved technologies. For this government, transportation is an important part of building the country, but we're going to do it both in terms of the generation today and generations in the future. As a result, we are increasing the focus on environmentally friendly technologies, we are replacing national road ferries with new gas ferries, we are supporting the development of hydrogen as an energy source in the transport sector, and we are actively developing and increasing the use of environmentally friendly vehicles. We will also introduce tools to make it profitable to choose low-carbon trucks. It may be considered access to the collective field, as the representative Sahl mentions, but I would warn against the angle that Sahl has. If we open the collective field for passenger cars with more than three passengers, what is created for the collective field – that is, public transport – may have problems with regularity, and that would be one of the stupidest things we can do. If there's anything we want, it's that buses and public transport else should be on the route, so passengers can trust that they come to work and others at the right time. Right now, this council may be something skeptical about it. We're betting that more people will go and ride to work, in line with the Soria Moria statement. We work with the Municipality of Oslo to get a bigger bet on walking and cycling roads in Oslo, which is perhaps the biggest challenge. What's left is both expensive and difficult to build out. I'm going in the near future to have a meeting with the Municipality of Oslo about that, where the Prime Minister will also attend, because this is an area we're very busy with. We also want to relaunch the cycling network between the larger cities in the country, to see how one can cooperate, learn from each other and stimulate each other to build walking and cycling roads. Not only the cities are currently active. I can name Lesja municipality, which I sometimes suggest, where one at work – free land from landowners, municipalities, county councils and state – builds a pedestrian and cycle path through the entire municipality. There is E6, which is a very busy road, the only road across a long-distance municipality. This government is working in many fields to ensure that we are intensifying the investment in the transport sector today. It's urgent, because it has a neglected field. Traffic has been losing on the state budget for many years. People in this country are in a hurry to get a better sense of culture, but we do it all the way with a goal in mind, that our children, grandchildren and descendants should take over a society that is both well-developed infrastructural and has an environment that is viable for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e736	I thank you for the answer, and I am happy to record and note that the Minister for Transport is offensive in relation to the challenges we face in the transport sector in relation to the environmental problem. I would like to stress that also for the Christian People's Party, transportation is an important part of building the country. We would like increased appropriations for transport to be warmly welcomed. As the Minister stressed, it is extremely important that the measures we are taking are followed up and supported by a broad effort to reduce environmental pollution from the transport sector. I note that we very much agree on measures and instruments. We are eagerly awaiting the revision of the national budget, which may be the budget for the autumn, in terms of the changes in taxes due in relation to both fuel and environmentally friendly cars. I found that in one area there was a nuance difference between the Christian People's Party and the Council of State, and it was on who's going to get into the collective field. We are also similarly concerned that the collective field can be filled up, but we think it is wrong that it is the size of the car that will decide whether to allow you to drive in the collective field or not – only you have the right type of car can you drive there, even if you are sitting alone in the car. We want to change it by getting rid of those who run alone, and rather have a try where one tries to get to those who run environmentally friendly, i.e. there are at least three passengers in the car. I realize, of course, that it may be a little difficult to control it, but as a trial project, I think it might have been interesting. Otherwise, the main idea for us is that we have to bet here on a wide field. We need a lot of action that we need to do together, and at the same time. What we have launched with regard to the three so-called strategies is to facilitate people's thinking about when they're going on a trip, that we're getting public organisation both in terms of spatial planning, walking and cycling routes and public transport, and that we're starting research and development and facilitating a charging system that promotes environmentally friendly transport. If we do this, I think we're going to see changes in the environment in our areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e747	I am pleased with the Christian People's Party's commitment to a forward-looking commitment to transport, and I believe that it is possible to achieve good cooperation between the Government and the Christian People's Party in these areas. Of course, I'd like to consider the Christian People's Party's conception of a trial project in relation to allowing passenger cars with more than three passengers in the collective fields, but my counter-representation was expressed in my post. I think it's going to be a difficult discussion to go into imposing restrictions on people's travel habits. We've had a wealth boost in Norway that I think everyone is happy about, and of course, the Storting and various different governments have been very much involved in contributing to it. The increase in wealth has also led to increased travel activity. But I think it's right to raise a debate that makes people more aware of how they travel, but from there to imposing restrictions on travel patterns is another piece of this council's thoughts. On the contrary, I view my and the Government's task as facilitating people's everyday lives. But, of course, we have to set up our policies so that making everyday life easier can also be that people make the right choices based on what's good for the individual – such as facilitating that the provision of public transport is so good that people do it because it actually makes everyday life easier. When it comes to R & D, which was now mentioned, it's an area that I'm not really mentioning in my post, but that I'm very busy with. I have met with both the Transport Economic Institute and, most recently, with the leadership group in the Research Council, where we went through the projects that the Ministry of Transport has. There are many and large projects that time does not allow me to go into, but of course also projects that go into the discussion we have today, namely how we can use new technology and develop new knowledge that will help us to develop the forward-looking investment we want in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e756	Let me first say that it is affordable for the representative of Sahl to address questions relating to the transport sector and environmental pressures. My impression is that the representative Sahl and the Christian People's Party have much in common with the red-green government in this policy area. After listening to Sahl's contributions, I would like to invite Sahl to cooperate with the red-green people on the transport policy. Sahl pointed to a number of measures to make the transport sector more environmentally friendly. There's absolute reason to follow up, and that's what the Council of State said in its article. When it comes to the use of collective fields, I must say, as the Council of State, that of course we want to have as an incentive to use more environmentally friendly cars, but at the same time we cannot detonate the capacity of the collective fields, because then the good will be the enemy. I believe that the focus of the Red-Green Alliance on both public transport, on environmentally friendly transport and on rail bets is more like what the Christian People's Party stands for than what some other parties hold for with a one-sided focus on road development, on high petrol prices and on high car charges. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government party is very clear that many forms of transport cause environmental problems. Oil and gas combustion results in greenhouse gas emissions. Road traffic is the dominant source of local air pollution and noise. Therefore, the government party will pursue an active policy to ensure that people are not exposed to health-damaging pollution. We also say that the national air quality targets should be set. In addition, we believe that the Government needs to develop a strategic action plan to meet the national noise target by 2010. That means reducing the noise by 25 pst. in relation to the 1999 level. For many people who today have problems that result from noise, this will mean a lot. The majority government has announced a review of the charging system for cars, which was also the subject of the Council of State, and she said this will be related to the 2007 state budget. So we want to set up the system in such a way that it will pay to buy environmentally friendly and safe cars. It is then possible for us to introduce a CO2 element into the entry fee, so that cars with small emissions will be preferred. This is a long-term bill conversion, and the Labour Party asked several times in the previous period if the sitting government could not make a change in the charging system. In order to reduce the pressure on the road network and reduce emissions from car traffic, it is absolutely crucial that we develop public transport so that it is modern, attractive and user-friendly. In the 2006 state budget, we spent 200 million. kr for so-called separate measures for public transport. This is money that goes to small and large measures, where it is provided for better public transport in our most populous area. In addition, the municipalities received a significant financial boost through increases in transfers to the municipalities. Some of these DKK 5.7 billion will probably also be used to make public transport even more attractive. Especially in Oslo, where the Labour Party, SV, the Christian People's Party and the Left have pushed the City Council to pursue a good policy when it comes to public transport, we see good results. More and more travels collectively, and in the future new T-railways will be opened and new and modern material will be introduced. Such a commitment is likely to lead to even more collective travellers in the future. Otherwise, I absolutely agree that there must be much better facilities for cyclists, because the organisation of bicycles has been a neglected area for many years. Fortunately, there is now much greater attention and focus on this area. In a debate on the transport sector and the environment, it is difficult to escape the importance of the railways. Every single day, NSB carries 120000 passengers into and out of Oslo. In this room, there are proposals from the second largest party in Stortinget for significant cuts for NSB, cut to 2 billion kroner. Such cuts would lead to a scrapping of the train supply in the Austland area, with the consequence that more would be forced into private cars. It is very important that we work together on the increase in the railway effort and the collective effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e780	After hearing the previous speeches, I was going to start by saying that I experienced that the interpellant and today's government wanted a relatively similar development, where using whips can get people away from using the car as a means of transport to and from work etc. Rather, the Progress Party wants to have a different approach to how we are going to address the challenges we are facing and the issues we are seeing. We believe that developing infrastructure and looking at the charging system are important measures to address the challenges facing the environment. I also think it is important to bring with me when you talk about public transport being very important, that there are actually many families with children who are dependent on delivering children in one kindergarten and then in the other kindergarten. Then it may not be easy to use the public collective service, then you are totally dependent on using the private car to deliver children to school and kindergarten. I think it's impossible to ensure a real, well-developed collective offer across the country unless this government wants to spend far more money than what I'm convinced it'll ever be able to do. I have very little faith in that. I also know that it is the school bus that is the only collective offer in many areas around the districts. I do not think that we can bet unilaterally on public transport and collective development. The Progress Party believes that the best way to reduce emissions is to provide good infrastructure in the form of well-developed roads and transport networks throughout the country. Such a development will ensure less emissions from the car, because you do not drive on poorly developed roads that increase emissions, because you use more fuel, etc. On many of our tribal roads, there is an unnecessary amount of fuel emissions from heavy transport, because they are running on such hugely poor roads – they have to use a lot of energy and resources to drive up and down on the bad roads. I also think it is important to bring with me, when we discuss what we are doing now, that in the last 20 years, the car industry has had a significant reduction in emissions from its cars. It is a development that has led to much more environmentally friendly cars than we had before. Then it is a paradox that Norway has one of Europe’s worst and oldest car parks, which pollutes far more than the new and modern cars that are now purchased on the market. Having one of Europe's oldest car parks I believe has been a wild political development in the form of the tax system on which there has unfortunately been a broad consensus among the political majority on the Stortinget. You can therefore ask yourself how busy you really are to do something about the climate, when you choose a charging system like what we have today. I have registered that the government has signaled that there will be a bill conversion in connection with the state budget for 2007, which the previous speaker also followed up. But I have also recorded that there are now clear signals that show that this is being postponed until 2007. It could be a good idea to clarify whether this government intends to present a redesign of the charging system in the context of the 2007 government budget, or whether this is something that will come later.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e791	It is an important matter for the representative of Sahl to raise here today. Collective transport is a field that is very relevant for innovation. The Bondevik II government took this challenge and implemented many important actions. I note that the Council of State today is drawing up many of the projects that were launched by the Bondevik II government, and that she has noticed that this is gradually starting to show results, not least here in the city. Well, in this town, it can't be the ferry abate that's going to make it. So the collective transport effort of the previous government was strengthened by SEK 1.5 billion, well and good, in addition to the ambitions of its government paper. It's impressive. We also received the first public transport notification, and we were given measures on the tax side that contributed to cost reductions and that could therefore provide a better offer to passengers. The reward scheme, which has also been a major success in the large urban areas, has shown good results. I could continue to mention actions that have worked well, and as it will be a great challenge for the sitting government to follow up, because there were great ambitions here. It'll be interesting to see if the will to bet ambitiously is present. We have received some answers from the Council of State today, but they should be followed up with money and action. In this context, the follow-up to the national rail transport plan is certainly not to be particularly pointed out. In international transport policy, there is a strong focus on alternatives to traditional carriers, which are gradually beginning to have a poor place in transport systems. Airspace, as it applies on the roads, and the traditional network. For many of these relationships, high-speed trains have been the answer and the solution. For example, on the Paris-Lyon section, there were 1,800 passengers per year at the end of the 1970s. day(s) Today there is almost no air traffic on the route again, because an offer has been made with environmentally friendly high-speed trains. The same is true of the Paris-Brussels relationship, and I could mention many such relationships. What's special about this is that in Norway we fly almost ten times more than you do in countries we can compare with, in relation to the population. Of course, the explanation is a lack of motorway network, a name that makes it an alternative. That's how we choose the plane. I've allowed myself to mention an exciting vision. Between Bergen and Stavanger there is today, as no railway is known, however, 36 aircraft go every day; it is made available to 4000 aircraft seats. Road transport is difficult and takes at best four and a half hours, because the road is winding. A high-speed train could take the distance in one hour. I think this is a kind of vision that we should perhaps dry to think, dry to mention, perhaps especially since it is now over a hundred years since representatives in this room raised Bergensbanen as it is absolutely crucial to tie South Norway together, a project that at that time cost more than a whole state budget. I do not expect the Council of State to have any response to this today. However, I allow myself to mention it as an exciting thought and as a vision that I believe belongs to a debate on new and modern transport solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e804	The Christian People's Party will have a clear environmental perspective on the transport sector. Norway should become a leading country in environmentally friendly transport. What we need are long-term and real investments in environmentally friendly and traffic-proof transport solutions. Why is it so important to act now? And can we not leave responsibility to each individual citizen or to other states that pollute more than us? First of all, the Christian People's Party believes that we as politicians have an ethical responsibility: the consequences of our climate emissions will go beyond the poor in the world and future generations. Managing responsibility is about a fairer distribution of resources, but also about responsibilities. Norway must make environmentally friendly choices precisely in solidarity with the poor. Our own climate emissions need to be reduced, and work needs to be done internationally to ensure that other countries take their responsibilities. If we believe that in the long term, the potential to emit greenhouse gases should be distributed by an equal share per. Consisting, and wishing to stabilise the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere at an acceptable level, the consequence will be that Norway should reduce its emissions by about two thirds over a 50-year period. It is not a good counter-argument that Norway is a small country and that our emissions represent a small proportion of the total. The situation so far is that most countries are small and that each country’s climate emissions are low in a global perspective. That is why very many countries need to participate to reduce global emissions. Norway is a country in a unique position, and it is the rich and industrialised countries that must take the lead in efforts to reduce emissions. These countries have accounted for most of the historical anthropogenic emissions, and they have the resources to bear the cost of going first. Based on this, a prosperous country such as Norway must be willing to make its share of the effort to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, Norway can serve as a role model in climate action. For example, if Norway: can develop technologies that demonstrate that oil and gas, aluminium, silicon and cement can be produced without significant greenhouse gas emissions, this could have an impact on how other countries will develop their greenhouse gas emission legislation. The world will have to significantly reduce its greenhouse gas emissions, and in this context there will be a market for climate-friendly technologies. It may therefore give a competitive advantage to Norwegian industries to enter early in order to develop such solutions. As mentioned above, road traffic emissions are an important source of emissions in a very large number of municipalities. This is also emissions that are still increasing. Many cars use less fuel than before, but this effect has been more than offset by the fact that people have more and bigger cars than before. Aviation also contributes significantly to emissions growth. Emissions from aeroplanes are, as you know, also more times worse than emissions from cars. The time to invest environmentally friendly is now – because the climate requires it, and because leaders and consumers are concerned about it. We see that this is a change of attitude on the move. President Bush used large parts of his State of the Union speech to talk about environmentally friendly fuels. In the EU, opportunities for replacing traditional petrol and diesel with biofuels are discussed. An increasing number of consumers are willing to invest in environmentally friendly vehicles. We see that a big bet on hydrogen cars is going on. Statoil, Hydro, SINTEF and many municipalities, like Fredrikstad with its biogas buses, and county municipalities are behind such a big investment. The size has to be involved in strengthening this investment, so that we get more environmentally friendly cars. Some of our highways, like rv. 22 and Rv. 111, is so heavily trafficked and unloaded that it is dangerous to walk or cycle along these. That is why we need to facilitate multiple routes and more public transport. We have to have visions, and we have to put the visions into life. We have to give people the opportunity to choose environmentally friendly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e827	The interpellant raises important issues in the interpellation to the Minister for Transport. It is a major challenge to succeed in creating a development in the transport sector to meet today's needs without destroying the possibilities for future generations to meet their needs. Interpellant mentions a number of interventions and strategies in its interventions aimed at getting more environmentally friendly transport. The central party shares by far all the views expressed by the representative of the Christian People's Party. Traditionally, the Central Party and the Christian People's Party have been close to each other in the field of social policy, and after this round and so far in this inter-pelling debate, I have good faith that we will achieve good and constructive cooperation during this four-year period. In its speech, the Council of State gave a thorough account of the government's policy. It was also stressed that several fronts should be invested, as the Council of State said. It testifies to an offensive policy, and it shows that this is a government bet area. I'm going to use the rest of my post to talk about one of Norway's most important natural resources, namely natural gas. Norway is a significant gas nation, and the Central Party believes that it needs to be targeted to increase the domestic use of natural gas. The use of gas in transport will bring significant environmental benefits. Especially in larger cities, environmental taxes from the transport sector are high. It has several of those who have had the word before me in it. Gas-powered buses and cars have about 60 pst. lower emissions of NOx and approximately 10 pst. CO2 emissions lower than the diesel-driven running speed. They have zero emissions of SO2, minimal emissions of particles and soot and halved noise levels. Several European countries have launched natural gas bus development programmes. The centre party believes that at least five major cities in Norway over a ten-year period should have natural gas as a fuel for the main mass of the buses and for a substantial part of other public transport. Measures to achieve this objective may constitute State aid to infrastructure and VAT exemptions for the purchase of such vehicles. Coastal transport accounts for about 40 pst. by the Norwegian emission of nitrogen oxide. Over 90 pst. these emissions may be eliminated by deploying natural gas in the coastal fleet. In addition, CO2 emissions will be reduced by about 30 pst, and sulphur emissions will be eliminated. The operating experience of Norway – and Verdes – first natural gas-powered ferry in Møre and Romesdal is very good. Five new gas ferries are under construction and it is also very positive that the Molde–Vestnes connection requires gas ferries to operate this link in the years to come. The centre party believes that over the next decade there should be at least 15 gas-powered ferries and 15 other gas-powered ships, such as. supply ships, operating in our country. In order to achieve a more environmentally friendly car park, the Centre Party has set up a significant increase in the wreckage system and to make it easier to import new and environmentally friendly cars. In the Soria Moria Declaration there are several measures for offensive public transport. I will only mention the short introduction of a 50 pst Youth Card. a discount, an increase in the accrual arrangements for public transport and the prioritisation of the emergence of public transport in large cities. Increased investment in rail and the provision of accommodation services and district booking routes are also important in view of a more sustainable development in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e865	I agree with the speakers who have said that this topic that the interpellant is travelling is one of the most important in our time. Climate threats and dependence on non-renewable energy sources must be addressed in the most serious terms. Both the climate noise and the unilateral dependence of the transport sector on oil are becoming increasingly visible. An increasing number of endangered species and a stronger and warmer weather remind us of the fact that today's society is very close to sustainability. Growth in Asia and in other parts of the world leads to more and more fossil energy – fossil energy, contributing to major local environmental damage and major greenhouse gas emissions. This development weakens the environment and people's living conditions and can in the long term also threaten the economic basis of very many people. The main reason is that the parts of the globe that are growing use yesterday's energy and transport solutions. The alternatives are not available to the majority of the world's population. Transport is important. Transport is the very nerve of a society. Without transport, trade in goods, value creation, people's opportunities to meet and live communities stop. It is therefore important that we in Norway provide solutions to ensure that we can transport goods and people, that the economy and structure of society are maintained, and that the environment is taken care of for future generations. One goal must be that we in Norway can develop solutions for the future that can benefit an entire world. Taking the costs of developing the options is some poor third-world country with no resources. At the same time, the hardest affected are those who have the worst ability to change from today’s fossil-dependent transport sector. Therefore, it is important that we in Norway contribute to a boost for technological development and system changes in transport. At the same time, we need to ensure that our own emissions are reduced, and are a driver of international environmental agreements, so that we can get the widest possible commitment to the environment. However, this strategy requires a significant boost, both technologically and economically. It was mentioned earlier that about a hundred years ago there was a gigantic rise in this room. Then left hand got the hairy margin through Bergensbanen. This was a vision that – as has been said – cost more than a government budget. It showed that it is possible to think big thoughts, but it requires political will. And now is the time to think new and big thoughts. If the Norwegian commitments under the Kyoto Agreement are to be fulfilled, it is important to sweep at your own door. Public transport and rail must become more competitive and attractive in relation to the private car and aircraft. One of the great political victories of the Left is the record strengthening of public transport carried out by the Bondevik II government, with about a quarter. 4 billion more for public transport in the period 2002–2005. One of the promises was, among other things: an urban railway in Bergen, where one gave green light for the first construction step. The left believes it is important to develop this to apply to the whole of Bergen City, and that the urban runway is also used in other cities as the skeleton of the future collective service. The railway seems to lose out in competition with the aircraft. Therefore, the operation of the railway has to be streamlined, and it has to be set on a path that can satisfy an increasing requirement for shorter travel time, increased frequency and increased comfort. It is therefore particularly important to give priority to the development of double tracks and to facilitate high-speed rails adapted to Norwegian conditions. I really liked the vision that was raised earlier, about the high-speed track on the Bergen–Stavanger route. I think it is important to think about such big ideas, to solve the enormous challenges facing us in the transport sector. Norway’s most important contribution to the fight against environmental pollution and climate change is the development of environmental technologies and zero-emission solutions. Both technological and market developments for hydrogen as a fuel are very important contributions to a cleaner environment. In land-based transport, leading Norwegian industrial actors have hundreds of years of expertise in production technology for hydrogen. The hydrogen vision really has to light up. I will end by saying that Norway has all the opportunities to play a key role in new technologies, and that in international environmental cooperation we have done a good job. But it is important to raise your eyes and get bigger thoughts going than just expanding Norwegian roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e892	Contributing to sustainable development is one of the most important things we can work for in the transport sector as well. Several places in the country are the small and large projects that contribute to a more environmentally friendly transport sector, and I think it is very important to raise these up and make a stronger commitment to them, so that we increase the contribution of the transport sector to sustainable development. I want to bring forward the environmental project biogas buses in Fredrikstad. In the absence of natural gas in the East, a project was launched in Fredrikstad that wanted to use biogas from a waste water treatment plant to fuel. Today there are four biogas buses operating in Fredrikstad, and they want to expand to twelve. The benefits of biogas are significant. It has also been mentioned here earlier in the debate. Biogas is per person. today the most environmentally friendly gas for use in buses, lorries and private cars. It is a clean, pollution-free and renewable gas. The reduction potential of NOx, particulate matter and noise is significant. Specific emissions are already lower than future requirements. The noise level is reduced by almost half for the human ear, and it's very positive for the local environment, holding places and low-speed residential streets. Biogas engines are commercially available. Drivers experience similar driving characteristics for diesel engines and gas engines. The use of gas in buses and heavier vehicles leads to significant reductions in emissions, as I said. These local emissions represent a disadvantage for society through sick leave, reduced labour productivity and healthcare treatment costs. It is important that the Government comply with SFT’s requirement that a certain proportion of the fuel sold be biofuels. In addition, we need to consider further developing investment aid so that biogas, in line with natural gas, can replace diesel as a fuel. Other instruments may still be exempt from CO2 and car diesel taxes. Biogas buses weigh more than ordinary diesel buses because of the gas engine. This means that the annual weight tax is higher for these buses than for other buses. In the context of the Government's informed reconversion of the charging system in a more environmentally friendly manner, it would be natural to consider a reconversion to this effect as well. The biogas project in Fredrikstad is an environmentally friendly project, which can serve as a model so that other parts of the country can also initiate such actions. We want to support this project and contribute to its further development in a positive direction. Another important objective of contributing to sustainable development in the transport sector is to ensure a reinforced development of rail and public transport. The government has set itself high targets in this way by investing $1 billion more per. years, as stated in the Soria Moria Declaration. In addition, the possibility of high-speed rail is now being explored, as others have been here today. This could provide interesting perspectives for sustainable development in the transport sector, so we look forward to this investigation with excitement. We have great faith in a stronger commitment to the railways every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e917	I would like to thank you for a good, exciting and constructive debate. I notice that there is very much agreement on the main measures. I feel that there is a drive in Stortinget towards taking the environmental challenges in the transport sector seriously. I would like to remind you of something also, Mr. Øyvind Halleraker, that the Bondevik II Government set itself high targets for increasing public transport and investing funds in generating environmentally friendly fuels. I want to challenge the current Minister of Transport to bring a follow-up to the collective communication – which was the first in history – that the previous government presented. Maybe during the period we can get a follow-up to it where we see what has happened, and where we set ourselves new goals for collective action in the future. So it is not as the Council of State suggested so far, and not least as the Party of Advancement drew out, that the Christian People's Party is only concerned with whipping. Then we in the Christian People's Party are then misunderstood. On the contrary, we are busy laying out carrots for the individual to travel, so that we can choose the environmentally friendly alternatives. We did not say that we would stop building roads, and that we would whip the drivers away from the cars. On the contrary, we said that cars and aircraft are absolutely necessary as a means of transport, especially in District Norway. We need good roads, and we must – together with the Progress Party – continue to build good roads. I want to extend a hand to the Progress Party and say that the development of better roads can also help lower the environmental threat, as they also underlined. But we can't stop there. We cannot build ourselves out of the environmental challenges. We also have to look at other instruments in addition to that. We got a good and positive challenge from Torstein Rudihagen from the Workers' Party. And that's absolutely true: we have a lot in common with the red-greens in this area, and we'll be happy to cooperate and find good solutions for the environment in the future. I would also like to congratulate the representative, Mr Halleraker, who launched the proposal for a high-speed railway Bergen – Stavanger. It's great that someone thinks big thoughts sometimes. In the Christian People's Party, we would like to share in bringing this idea forward. It's a huge project. But let's look at what opportunities lie there, and what can be the solution in the near future and in the long term. I would like to thank you for a positive debate and invite you to cooperate on the environment in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e934	I would also like to thank you for a good debate, and I feel that there is full support in the Great Government's work, which not only involves a commitment to public transport, but a strong commitment that all, including in those parts of the country where public transport is neither developed nor will be developed satisfactorily, should be able to get incentives to act in a way that is conducive to the environment. There have been several good recordings, and I have noted diligently. Bård Hoksrud had a direct question about the government coming with a change of charging system in the 2007 budget. Yes, it has the government notice, and it's coming with the government. In between, we are discussing a conversion of the single charge on the car, so it is cheaper to buy cars that use less fuel and are more environmentally friendly. We fly more than in other countries, it was said from Halleraker, and that's right. Those who travel part of Norway know that there are great distances, and that the country is thin peoples like many other countries in Europe and elsewhere in the world. We're few people spread over large areas, and I think that's a major reason why we use planes to a greater extent than many others. The government has started a high-speed rail settlement in which both Oslo–Bergen and other current routes are assessed. It's an interesting statement. I'm looking forward to her coming to the table to see if there are some of the routes where aircraft today are almost unilateral, there is a possibility of thinking in a little bit different paths and finding competitive means of transport that are more environmentally friendly than aircraft. Of course, it is partly right that getting better standards on the roads will reduce fuel consumption. But that the best way to reduce emissions is to build better roads, is perhaps to go far. I think we need to have a more composite strategy, but where building a better road is also an important piece. In Sweden, bioethanol has been a major success. 50,000 environmental cars are now rolling around on the Swedish road. In March it was 15 p.m. of all new cars environmentally friendly and went on the so-called E85 fuel, which has 85 pst. bioethanol and 15 pst. petrol. The government will contribute to a breakthrough for this environmentally friendly fuel also in Norway. Cutting the fees for bioethanol will help quickly to make the supply of E85 fuel available to oil companies in Norway. We come back to this matter in revised form. But it will also be an important strategy for most people to be able to run environmentally friendly cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-03.ana.ud872e951	This way, today's maps are processed. Does anyone ask for the word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure? - The meeting is over.
