ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07-2.ana.ud2109e34	The right considers that a public sector that is open and provides services when needed needs to be developed further. The last opening time was illuminated in its full width, at the beginning of the 1980s. The work of the opening time committee and the follow-up of this, by the government Willoch, led to opening hours, for example. in relation to shops and private services that are today taken for granted. Most government and municipal offices close at 4 p.m. 15 summer hours and 3 p.m. 15.45 winter time. In some cases the opening hours of telephone calls are even shorter. This means that many people have to get out of work in order to meet in a public office whether they are going to renew the passport, pick up driving licences or talk to the tax office. Should they call, they almost always have to do it during working hours. Some people do not have the opportunity to get out of prison, so they do not have the necessary errands. For others, it is impractical and irritating. Short opening hours are also expensive for small businesses that cannot serve people in the middle of the day. For society, this means reduced value creation. On the right, public offices believe that in the same way as shops, they must be adapted to modern working and family life. Lonely and families both at work need extended opening hours. Therefore, opening hours and telephone hours need to be adapted to government offices, and one has to work locally for municipal offices to stay open longer. Someone might ask themselves: ‘ Is this really a problem in a society with telephone, Internet and e-mail? Will this not be solved through the Dinside, and thus a 24-hour government? Is it not true that, in addition to these offices, they are largely addressed to persons who are not economically active? No, it's not like that. Let me take another picture, which also tells something about reality: first, it requires personal presence in connection with a lot of services. Secondly, there are as many as 500,000 people aged 55–74 who, for various reasons, do not use the PC and the Internet. For people living in the districts and for the elderly and the poor in resources, the issue of opening hours is likely to be even more important. In any case, there is also a question of quality and service. Sometimes you actually need to relate face to face of a human being. In addition, the quality of the various websites varies considerably. Not everyone has information about contact possibilities and opening hours. Let me give you a few examples: the dry-deated unit has opening time from 0 p.m. 9 to 14.30, but a few places open until noon. 16 Thursdays. 1.3 million people have social security as their main source of income. 2 million receive ongoing benefits from the establishment, and it deals with more than 6 million cases. It is estimated that 60-70 pst. by those who seek out the social security office to receive reimbursement for health care, i.e. that very many are not pensioners but working families with young children. For 2005, it was estimated that 260 000 passports for adults and 120 000 passports for children will be issued. Only some police stations have extended the opening time for this service. The house bank has an opening time from 1 p.m. 8 to 15. I think most first-time starters are either in work or in education. Traffic stations have an opening time of 1 p.m. 8 to 15, somewhere until 8:00 p.m. 15.15, which is certainly very helpful to the audience. This means that everything that has to do with certificates and registrations in relation to a car must be taken during working hours. The students that we now expect to be full-time students after the quality reform must contact the Staten Läbskasse between hours. Nine and fifteen. I believe that as an audience we are so used to this type of public service that we don't think about it so much until we stand in front of the locked door – the children should have been picked up in the kindergarten, and the deadline for renewal of the passport expired yesterday. It's simple and cheap to fix this and to get a pretty dramatic improvement on the audience. I hope the Council of State will follow up on this interference by implementing an opening time reform in the public sector. It is likely to be the cheapest and simplest reform ever implemented in the public sector. One can do this by leaving the public offices open until noon. 18 on weekdays, and in some cases on Saturdays. Examples of this type of office will be traffic stations, tax havens, Labour Inspectorate, passport enquiry office and customs and tax havens. One should provide all government offices with public enquiries during this large-scale period with solutions for telephone service up to 1 p.m. 18 a.m. on weekdays and from 6 p.m. 10 to 14 on Saturdays. Examples of offices to which this should apply are the Husbanken, the Staten Loan Fund for Education, the Brønnøysund Registers, Fylksänsen, the Staten Kontammungsversicherung and the Labour Inspectorate. One should, of course, also follow this up through MinSide and Norway.no websites, so that state agencies provide information and provide personal electronic services 24 hours a day, both everyday and public holidays. One might think that this will be expensive. There will be some costs of extending the opening time, but a great deal can be achieved by organising work in state departments differently and by shifting the working time of employees a few days a week. On weekdays, it's actually just the hour between hours. 17 a.m. and 7 p.m. 18 which increases compensation of employees. Some costs have to be considered, such as: additions for inconvenient working time, increased electricity or heating costs, etc. However, the digitisation of public services launched by the previous government will bring significant efficiency gains during this period, if followed up. The right-wing opinion is that the government needs to use part of this to improve the service to the inhabitants and the business community, who need to meet the public face to face. As I have pointed out, the regulations for public sector employees will not prevent this from being implemented. In this area, there is, in fact, great flexibility and great opportunities for the government as an employer to use their responsibilities and governance, but of course in close dialogue with and in cooperation with employees’ organisations. Service is, of course, more than opening hours. It's also about how you meet and how the rules are designed. To illustrate this, I would quote from a letter to the previous Minister of Modernisation – ‘Never on a Thursday’ is the title: ‘I just called my local social security office to ask some questions about filling out the birth money requirement – as the Internet pages of the social security system encourage. When I got through, I was asked about my mother's date of birth. When I informed about this, I was told that I had to call again tomorrow, because then the case handler was responsible for this date at work. Why can't anyone with my date of birth get answers to their relatively general, social security-related questions on a Thursday?' Of course, these kinds of attitudes and systems need to be addressed. Focusing on opening hours may also be an instrument for focusing on other service-related issues in the public sector. I hope for a positive and offensive response from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07-2.ana.ud2109e77	The representative Bent Höie asks what initiative the Government will take to improve the opening hours of the public sector and what goals the Government will base on. Bent Höie went through a lot of examples that one in many states and in some municipalities has limited opening time within public service provision. It's a challenge. So let me just make it very clear that the government already in the Soria Moria Declaration states that it will «renew and develop the public sector through increased user involvement, better coordination of service declarations, extended opening hours and improved Internet services». The whole refurbishment work that my department and I are doing has a lot of the challenges involved in what the interpellant took up. It's not just that opening hours are necessarily extended, but also the way we handle requests to public offices, and how we use the money we release by using ICT to increase the quality of the services we actually provide. But there are no questions about the renewal work I'm going to answer today – I'm going to go a little further into what's going on with opening hours. Opening hours have to be seen in a broader perspective, and so did the interpellant. I'm glad the opposition is busy with this. Right has had both the Minister of State and the Minister of Modernisation for four years – without having seen that the opening hours have been extended monthly. But I'm glad that the interpellant is busy supporting this government's initiatives in this area. We're all dependent on public services. Public enterprises need to pay attention to adapting service provision so that it is accessible to citizens and business. Just so we ensure that we get the services that we want, that we have the right to, that we have the right to. I would like to stress that the Government is strongly focused on providing good, 24-hour and user-friendly services online. This is part of the holistic user orientation of the public sector. The issue of physical opening hours in the administration is an important part of the debate. It should be placed on the political agenda, but then as part of a collective user correction in the area of renewal work. The use of electronic service provision via the Internet by the administration can help to make public administration more flexible when it comes to opening hours. Incidents and businesses can gain more access to public services and information without having to think about opening hours. The establishment of the Altinn portal for business reporting shows that it has had good effects. We have already reported 580 saved annual works in the business sector. Altin is kind of in the beginning, and we have a job to do to make him even better. Altin as a portal is sensible and has a very broad political anchoring behind him when it comes to the work done there. Likewise, the interpellant also includes MiSide, a site for the inhabitants where public services are collected online. We're working on this at a high rate. MiSide corresponds to Altinn for business and is therefore its portal. There you can, when appropriate, go in and fill in forms, send forms, search information and change your schedule – regardless of the need to visit a municipal office. Of course, it is a problem that some of the public services can now only exist within the physical opening hours. Most of us are either at work or at school – and we should be at work or at school and spend our time there. Then we have the challenge – and that was also the interpellant – that there are more than 500,000 people in the 55-year-old group who, for different reasons, do not use the PC or the Internet and therefore depend more on physical opening hours than those of us who use ICT, who may even have ICT at work, and who have such a type of job that we can send a private email in the middle of working hours, without taking too much notice from work. We also have, of course, the digital class division debate about who has access to and who has no access to ICT, which we are not supposed to address here, but which we need to take into account as a facilitator for the use of public services also for them. We need to make sure that we reach everyone, including those who, for reasons of competence or perhaps for economic reasons, are not able to use the new tool. With regard to the state sector, it is important to note that current agreements and regulations do not prevent more flexible working hours and thus better adapt opening hours to their needs. We have some examples, as the interpellant also pointed out, that one has put in place good and flexible working time arrangements that provide flexible opening hours. One example is the passport office at the Bergen police station, which last summer had a shift of working time, so that one had until noon. 17 all days throughout the summer. It is at times that the printing of passports is particularly large, and the audience was also very pleased with that offer. Then we have the great reform of labour and welfare that we are now facing, which also has a broad political agreement behind it in the Storting, and which we are now planning to implement. In relation to the reform of labour and welfare, it is very important that users’ needs are based on what is fundamental. It is one of the biggest public sector reforms in recent times – to put it that way. The reform will amount to 16 000 added: 11 000 in the social security and employment budget and 5 000 in the municipal council. It's clear that when, to put it that way, we're nailing a new establishment, a new administration, which is going to have so many users inside the doors, I don't believe all the 1.3 million people who, at some point in their lives, accept a social security service, need to go to the social security office. But many will need it, many will need to go to Aetat to just get the physical face to the face-guidance. Not least is the social service also a face-to-face human. It is clear that the new welfare state must have user rights in place as well as in relation to opening hours. NAV Interim follows three tracks relative to it. The developer defaults for the opening hours at local offices. This is a challenge that must be solved when negotiating agreements between the new State of Employment and Welfare and each municipality. Local and state employees have different working hours. In addition, any changes must be dealt with in relation to the membership of their organisations. Then a dedicated user centre must be set up to ensure efficient and competent service over the phone. The aim is to develop a continuous concept that can offer the same telephone service to users across the country. And then has a more long-term channel strategy, which takes into account that in the future many users will be technologically competent and expect to provide the most possible services through electronic channels. Such services must be developed over time. Those are the long-term grips. When it comes to the municipal sector, I would like to point out that the municipal authorities do not contain statements regulating the opening hours of municipal or county offices. It is up to each municipality and county to determine when municipal offices are to be kept open. Several municipalities already practise extended opening hours by, for example: has a service office or information office that has been open for one or more days per week, or stays open for several hours on Saturdays. Here, the municipalities themselves have to assess the effects of this in relation to the different user groups, and I have to say that I do not know if the right-hand municipalities remain open longer than the red-green municipalities. This must be the responsibility of the local self-government. But it's clear that the signals we send to Kommune-Noreg through the Soria Moria Declaration and through the 5.7 billion in the municipal economy, at least the municipalities are able to evaluate the opening hours, even if they have a cost that we can't override here. To close with the renewal of the public sector, there is an important commitment for the Government that there is good cooperation between the authorities and between them to join their organisations. I have already addressed the issue with extended opening times with the main salsa closures and have invited them to work together on it. They've said that they want to be on, and we're going to sit down. We're going to have a paycheck and a couple of other things we're negotiating these days, but in the course of the year I'm going to start the dialogue with them to join their organizations. We are forced to work together on these questions, to get a targeted and solution-oriented solution – I would say. The main objective is for all public enterprises to consider adapting their opening times from a user perspective. For the first time, it would be natural to take a closer look at the public budgets, where measures to extend opening hours may be needed. It is appropriate to use the management dialogue with the etats as a more active tool, so that they may be required to identify measures that can improve user correction, either by extending the opening hours or by introducing other measures. Here, the agencies must be offensive and go out and ask the users, so that the measures we come up with are the ones that make up your needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07-2.ana.ud2109e117	First to the obvious temptation it is for the Council of States to respond – in a way – that this has been the responsibility of the Right for four years, so why has nothing been done? The work on modernisation in the public sector requires a very clear focus. The Bondevik II government focused on three very clear areas in the area of modernisation. It was to reduce the form field, it was to put in place good electronic solutions for trade between the public and the public, and not least between the various public authorities, and not least there was a concrete plan for modernising the public sector, where one has ten concrete indicators of public perception of the development of the public sector. It will be exciting to follow the ten indicators of the coming years when the new government is now responsible. But to get this in place, the responsibility of the State Council is required to keep this in focus every single day. The next project that we had planned was to extend the opening hours in the public sector. I hope that the new government council will continue this project. But it will require a very clear focus on concrete objectives and implementation. It is then necessary that this work is not carried out in a slightly scattered and fragmented way, but that one from the Government sets out concrete measurable performance targets that can be followed by everyone. I brought up two issues in my interpellation that I hope the Council of State can give feedback on in the further debate. The point one was that government offices with a lot of public interest should be up until noon. 18 on weekdays and in some cases on Saturdays. These relate to traffic stations, the tax haven, the Labour Inspectorate, the passport enquiry office and the customs and charging seat. The second was that all state offices with public enquiries during this large-scale period should have solutions for telephone service up to noon. 18 a.m. on weekdays and from 6 p.m. 10 to 14 on Saturdays, for example, the House Bank, the State Loan Fund for Education, the Brønnøysund Register, the County Council, the State Pollution Control Agency and the Labour Inspectorate. If the Council of State responsible is so specific that she says that the objective is to achieve this over the four years, she will at least have the full support of the Right in the implementation of the objectives. I am absolutely convinced that she is going to be so offensive, this will be a goal that will have been achieved at the end of this four-year period – as was the objective of the previous government when it came to the modernisation set up at the beginning of the period, was carried out during the period.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07-2.ana.ud2109e130	To answer the question first, no, I'm not coming by. Today to set the goals that the representative Höie has seen, because it may not be the right way to do it. It may well be that it would be restrictive targets for some etatas. What we're going to do is focus on user fixes. For this reason, "user rights" are the most important and the first of the five key strings the Government has in its renewal platform. It is user rights, in the form that the public services should be adapted to the user, but also user involvement, that the user is involved and affects the appearance of the public service. Opening hours are quite obvious, but it also has to do with a lot of other things. And then we talk about quality. Bent Höie said that part of the money we release using ICT can be used to expand the opening hours. But it's also so that some of the money we release using ICT is simply going to increase the quality of what's digitized. I was among others. in Bergen and open the Bergens region on a map. Eleven municipalities, including Bergen, have published all digital maps and plans, control plans, so that entrepreneurs and architects who are planning large projects get the information on the web itself. But the architects and business people who were there said to me that they are totally dependent on the quality of what is put out. When the case editor now saves time by not running in the archive and copying up maps to the person who comes to get a map, he can spend time checking at least that what's out there is actually true. This is how quality is improved, and for these users it is absolutely crucial. It's actually more important for them than a user of the money to expand the opening time by half an hour. It was all digitized, and they were more concerned with the quality. The third key of this government’s renewal work is ‘efficiency’. ‘Participation’ is the fourth word – it is not necessarily in the order in which the user is numbered. The latter is ‘transparency’ and transparency — that citizens and businesses have insight into the decisions taken by the administration. It's very important, also in relation to the question here. I was about to discuss opening hours with the main connections. Getting them to cooperate on opening hours is very important, it's a commitment for us to do it. I hear that the Right had big plans to get started, I haven't seen anything about those plans. I think we should go through the foundation we have to do the job we're going to do. But that we have a focus on this being as accessible as possible to our citizens and to our business -- I totally share that vision with Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07-2.ana.ud2109e147	First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the Minister of Renewal and Administration for a clear and clear answer to testify that we have a Council of State with ambitions. Of course, we're busy looking at the physical opening hours. But as the Council of State so well describes — good accessibility to public services is about much more. Here as otherwise, one has to have multiple thoughts in your head at the same time. State councils are just alerting the whole operation to ensure service to all groups of citizens. Then there is a need for various good universal solutions, preferably icy a little locally adapted tailor-made. It is absolutely necessary that the services at the different levels of government are coherent in a sensible way, which, hopefully, will provide a shining example for the NAV reform. The public service offices must also be further developed, and we are all sure to agree on that. Also Bent Höie deserves something that has an icelet of honey in it. If the Right cannot signify significant results in terms of changes in the opening hours of the public sector over the four years they were in government, we have heard Höie's explanation: that it was not time for it in four years. I think to the extent that it's okay that it stayed with the four years. It's nice that Hoie now gets engaged. Haye and Right are right that there is an improvement potential here, although there are many good examples. It's important that we notice the good examples and learn some of them. This will be taken by an impatient government. Everything is not about money, but the powerful increase that the new bulk of population has provided in the municipal economy, and that we intend to do more than continue, is also positive in this context. Brighter economic prospects for Kommune-Norway also provide brighter prospects for the public sector and thus perhaps also a little more light in town halls and other public buildings after dark. Better accessibility to public services is an obvious and important part of our renewal work to ensure a public sector that helps people. In order to achieve the objectives, good team play with the employees in the sector is important, not least in order to achieve the necessary flexibility. We also like to play along with others who will help to improve our Community solutions constructively. Also in this way we would like to have the door more than on fire.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07-2.ana.ud2109e160	The representative Hagebakken said he heard a clear response from the Council of State. I totally disagree with that. She mostly remembered a conservative bank manager in the 1980s. The liberalisation of opening hours came many years ago, in the 1980s. That's what the Council of State sounded like. It's an important topic for the representative, Höie, here. Who's for who? The politicians, the state and the municipalities are for the people of Norway. We must be able to establish that. Although some conservative banks have moved in the right direction — in a positive direction — as regards the extension of opening hours, in a more user-friendly direction for those wishing to use the bank’s services, there is a reason that banks have done so. They want to provide better service to the users, and this should be taken inwards by the Council of State. Some years ago we did not get fresh bread on Saturdays. All stores closed at 4 p.m. 13 on Saturdays. It's changed dramatically. Now we even get purchased fresh bread on Saturdays – even on Sundays. There's a positive development in society in that area, and that's where we, the municipalities and the state have to follow. Private business and those employed there go further and further in showing flexibility in terms of extended opening hours. This is not because you want to work inconveniently, but because you want to give the best possible offer to the users and customers. We should get that idea into the public sector as well. In the municipalities, most of the offers are now based on the principle of self-sufficiency, and it must mean that the inhabitants must now be able to expect, demand, a better offer, not as we often hear, that the municipalities have not only limited opening hours, but that they have also completely closed the receipt of telephones every single day. And what's the reason for that? Yes, internal meetings and a lot of work pressure. There is no reason to shut the population out of the municipality – just as if the private do not have the labour pressure and internal meetings! But they still manage to maintain an offer to the users. It has something to do with priority. We must take this challenge as seriously as possible in view of the users. I think the state council's posts were defensive. She doesn't see the problems. Here we must show greater will. We must have the will and the ability to correct and prioritize opening times that are more adapted to modern working life and family life.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07-2.ana.ud2109e173	Few areas are better suited for a lot of chat and little action than exactly what we're talking about right now. Here's a lot of ends to take hold of. Many people talk about opening time as if it were just those who don't have access to data, i.e. those who are old or for other reasons are not operational on data. By the way, you can be very good at data even if you are old, but at least it applies to those who for some reason are not operational on data. I want to say that there might be completely different groups that have the greatest needs. Just think of the families of children, think of those who are really in time together, those who have a tough job, maybe out in an operational service where you shouldn't hang on the phone late and early, those who are going to pick up in a kindergarten, those who have children who are not in the SFO, but who are actually at home a period before the parents come back from work, and who would like to make that period as short as possible. There are probably a lot of people here, including those we think are very operational, who need changes. It was an expression of good will from the Council of State to take hold of things. But when you heard a little bit more about what the government was going to bet on, namely user correction, quality, efficiency, participation, transparency and insight – I think that was what I noticed – I know that the doubt grips me quite deeply. Common to all of these things is that it's incredibly difficult to make parameters for them. It's incredibly hard to measure when things get better in these fields. It's common to all of the rows. How to measure effectiveness? How to measure participation? How do you measure transparency and quality? It could be very interesting exercises to get parameters on it. I really hope that in areas where the Council of State now refuses to be clear and clear, clarity will come to light by the fact that, as matters progress, we really see how these things can be measured, how we can see that it is possible to move forward in this area, how we can perhaps achieve not just an opening time reform but an accessibility reform for public services. We know that a considerable amount of work had been done with DinSide from the Bondevik II administration. We are anxiously waiting for DinSide to become a reality. There's no reason, I think, for us to have to wait very long. The representative, Höie, was concerned about this with the need to have clear goals in order to move forward. Is there an experience that we have done, not just during the period of government that was, but in close touch with any change in the public sector, it is that when you try to make changes of importance, it occurs – I would say as a law of nature – significant and quite strong protection mechanisms. It's not just about traditional counter-conceptions from employees' organisations and the like, but about the mechanisms that apply to each of us. I think most of us will agree that when someone tries to change our daily lives, we prefer not to want too many changes, and we protect our rivals. Turning the big public shot is a huge job. I don't think one should underestimate the importance of having goals that are so clear and clear that large organizations can easily relate to them. The representative, Höie, made a very important point. And as I said, I'm a little worried when I get presented targets that are described with pretty party-formulation flares, where it's hard to make parameters, and where we hear that this is going to be done in close cooperation with employees' organisations. It's supposed to be done from a teambuilding mind. There are many people who have burned quite skillfully on it, and I hope it won't happen to this as well. We look forward to a good description of the parameters for ‘user correction, quality, efficiency, participation, transparency and understanding’. I'm happy!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07-2.ana.ud2109e188	Never have we had such good opportunities to get information, and never has it been so easy to reach as many at once as now! New technology has made it possible to be open 24 hours a day. It also applies to the public sector. The Christian People's Party is engaged in a strong public sector. As citizens, we have high expectations and demands for individual and competent treatment. Meeting this challenge requires more capacity for management to be oriented towards citizens, and greater accessibility is needed for many. We expect availability. New technologies provide a whole new channel for many users to access certain types of public services faster and easier. It also provides opportunities to organise government and municipal service production in new ways. When I look up the website of my municipality of residence, Sandnes, I find justifiable boasts of the municipality, but I also find a lot of information and opportunities. I can click on the application forms and message forms. I can ask questions and expect quick answers. I can orient myself, and I can complain if the trash is not picked up – quickly and efficiently, and when on the day I want! One can ask himself the question: isn't that enough? Do we need extended availability in relation to normal opening hours? My answer is clearly yes. First, many people don't have the ability to use the Internet, either because they don't have access, because they can't, or simply because they don't want to. We must have a responsibility to all citizens. It must be created proximity, not distance. Not everyone will have knowledge or equipment to operate directly online. Nor should we believe that new technology can solve everything. Not all services are suitable for electronic processing. Secondly, many of us have a daily journey with full employment and great responsibilities towards children and family. It is unreasonable that the single mother who works full-time in the office should have to get out of work in order to have a conversation with a municipal case manager or with the social security office. Every day is busy already, and it becomes impossible to reach everything within narrow opening hours. It is good help in extended opening time one day a week for those who are tied in at daytime. And last but not least, electronic possibilities can never fully replace personal guidance. Although we can get application forms, send questions and get answers, the contact we can get with the service offer in the municipality should never replace the opportunity to meet a person, a conversation partner, in the administration. Or in another way: we want an efficient and easily accessible public sector. Here technology is a good help. We also want each person to be able to be met with warmth and guidance in his community. The individual must have the opportunity to present his or her problem or challenge. This applies in particular to those who are struggling and need the auxiliaries. It is a serious cross-section of thought that parents of disabled children often say that the meeting with the public sector is very demanding. The objective must be to ensure both accessibility and coordination so that the public can be perceived as a support. Parents with disabled children should use the forces on their child and not in the pursuit of public case handlers. Back to the question: do we need extended opening hours? Yes. Increased accessibility for citizens creates faith in the community. It is about people having to have the opportunity to meet the public. The Christian People's Party wants a strong public sector that is responsible for most of our well-being – kindergarten, school, child protection, health, social security, social care and elderly care – and that facilitates a thriving business life, good growing-up conditions and a rich cultural life. It is important that the public sector renews and adapts to the needs of its citizens and that the sector meets its citizens. I'm in doubt that you should be able to order government offices or municipalities to have an open evening. It is important for them to decide for themselves how to organize their own everyday life. A state order I don't think has any purpose. It is not unnatural that this flexibility should be found in a ‘milding municipality’ expressed by Minister of Local and Regional Affairs Haga himself. The Christian People's Party believes that society is best built from below. The new regional reform and the NAV reform must also be based on this principle. We believe in local democracy, that those who wear the shoe know where it prints. This means that we trust our elected representatives to make a good effort to ensure a better offer to the citizens of the municipality and region.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07-2.ana.ud2109e218	I would first like to thank the interpellant for raising an important question. Public services must be available when people are going to use them. Public services need to be even more attractive to be open and flexible for the different needs of citizens. The left, both in the centre administration and in the cooperation administration, was the driving force behind the introduction of public service declarations, including: opening hours shall be closed. Simplification and transparency are also an important part of public service provision and will help reduce and simplify the needs and contacts of citizens with bureaucracy. The coordination of services related to work, social security and social services, which has become the new NAV reform, is an example of this. In the Left, we see this as the forerunner of our vision of civic pay, a guaranteed minimum income that people can get without being clientised in a comprehensive and controlling bureaucracy. It is important not to close public offices too early. The 7–16 society does not exist outside the public sector today, and therefore citizens will increasingly expect longer opening hours and better public services as well. Contracts in the country do not preclude further attempts at new and flexible working time arrangements. We therefore ask the Council of State to note that this is a very important measure. Another measure is recruitment to public sector posts. It is important that it does not become too one-sided, but that it reflects the diversity and values that different groups have in society, by also having a service culture where the public becomes more diverse. Another important measure is to reduce the number of meetings that make employees inaccessible. One or more days off a week may be a way of implementing it. Furthermore, the use of new technologies can also be a means of reducing routine tasks, so that time is freed to operate personal services as much as possible. Several municipalities have also replaced the fixed telephone and switched to mobile phones. This increases the flexibility and accessibility of employees. It is an action that we ask the Council of State to pay attention to the State sector as well. It is clear that technology can also help many people who think it is better to contact the state in this way, and that it may be a more rational way of contacting the public. But it certainly cannot take things into account as the warm, engaged public employees can. In the case of local government, the Left considers that local elected representatives can best assess the opening hours of the service provision in their municipality. Therefore, there should be no State restrictions related to local government and opening hours. This should be determined in the municipality. On the left, the Council of State notes the challenges of the opening time of the public sector owned by the cultural sector. This applies to both libraries and museums, where long opening times are important, for example. on the weekends. In addition, the Left will refer to the Swedish system of politicians available at regular times of the week at service offices in order to meet citizens. Politicians are also part of public administration, by virtue of being the representative of the people. It is important to facilitate contacts between citizens and politicians. The policy-makers’ own priorities and attitudes have a lot to say about their ability to be available, but they are also about the conditions for being a politician. The left will therefore encourage the Council of State to look at the Swedish models and on similar trials carried out in Norway, for example. in Ski municipality in Akershus.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07-2.ana.ud2109e241	I had not intended to speak in this debate, for I thought the Grande Røys Council of State gave a very good and offensive answer, but when I heard the representative Olemic Thommess saying that he was being alarmed when conversion was to be done in close cooperation with the employees, I was unable to stop. When a representative from a large, former government party gets scared when the government council says that conversion is to be done in close cooperation, I can't understand anything. And when one sees the attitude that the Right has had over the last four years, with cut, cut, cut, complaint and a negative focus on the municipal sector, one understands that negative spirals have been set in motion instead of positive spirals. The difference between today's government and yesterday's government is that we want to have a positive and close cooperation with both employees and municipalities. In the municipal debate last year, the government of today allocated DKK 5.7 billion to the municipalities. The representatives of the Right voted against. We trust and we believe that they can manage these resources locally, that they can manage them locally, that they can manage to find good solutions, which means that the local school is not shut down, which means that you can have a little longer opening time in the local service office, and that allows the individual to live in the bar, in the solder and otherwise in the country to get a better offer, close to himself, that creates more flexibility. I hope that the Right sets aside the tone that it is negative to have cooperation with the public sector employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07-2.ana.ud2109e250	I expect the previous speaker to hear that when the representative, Olemic Thommessen, said he was scared, it was of a total picture where one got a clear impression that this would be followed up in a very fragmented and scattered way, and that it was not working with the employees who were in the main focus on getting scared. But what one might be appalled by is that the Central Party repeats its false claim that it was cut in the municipal sector in the last growing period, yes, even after their own councillor, Minister of State Åslaug Haga, has confirmed in written reply to me that in the Bondevik II government period it was the highest growth in the free income of municipalities since 1997 – and in the meantime, the Central Party has actually had a significant government responsibility. I hope we don't hear that statement again. But to talk about something positive: the answers and the debate today have shown that there is broad support and broad support for our desire to extend the opening hours. That's very good. But that is also the case, as others have pointed out, and I fully agree that extended opening times in the municipal sector are a responsibility for our local politicians. But then extended opening time in the state sector is a responsibility for us politicians here on the Stortinget and in government. I think it will have a great effect that the state is going ahead as a good example that it is possible to get extended opening times in a fast and easy way. I also think that one has to, as many people have been involved, set concrete measurable targets right at this point. Here we have a reform that the responsible State Council can carry out without having to fight for several years with the Minister of Finance, without having to make major legislative changes, and without spending a lot of time on investigation; it can actually be carried out in a short time. That council should, of course, from the opposition not be given to the responsible state council, because I think if you implement this, there will be something that the public will quickly notice. But if you continue the path that goes on to make this progress through general objectives and good wishes, I am afraid that in 2009 we will also have this debate and could point to spread – perhaps some more, but at any rate spread – good examples, without a full reform that makes the audience really notice that there is a change from the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07-2.ana.ud2109e259	Let me start by thanking the interpellant for having a slightly more inviting attitude in the debate than a few of the others we've heard. I very much appreciate the approach taken by the representative, Mr Höie, to this department. Let me say this: The representative Olemic Thommessen may not have listened well after he made me defensive, with much talk and little action. Too attached to the very greatest reform that we are going to carry out in the next few years, that is, NAV, which relates to our two great welfare institutions, Aetate and Social Security, we have, as I said, three concrete things that we are going to do. One is that we need to develop standards for opening hours at local offices, we need to establish our own user centres that ensure efficient and competent service over the phone, and we need to further develop digital use of the services that we can get in place within it. The second thing I said is the development of Altin and MiSide. It's clear that MiSide has an enormous potential for just getting a 24-hour administration, where we first put in seven states, next time get the municipalities and next time get electronic communication between the client and the case handler, without having to adapt to any kind of opening hours. It's clear that there's a great potential here. I have given a lot of praise to Morten Andreas Meyer, who was the one who had the good idea, and of course I am completing it with all the eagerness and glow that I am able to do. In addition, as I said, I have already invited the main connections to be with and discuss opening hours. We have innumerable national audit reports that tell us how it goes about public sector conversions that don't include them. It's bad. We get bad goals, we get bad efficiency, and so we get poor quality in the services that we're going to provide to our residents. So I just want to say that what the representative Bjørg Tørresdal said about our local democracy and others, I'm completely behind. Otherwise, at least I don't have as pessimistic a view of local democracy as the Progress Party has. I believe that the Progress Party's spokesmen are just as busy as SV's spokesmen that the inhabitants are going to have an open and user-friendly administration in their municipality, regardless of party-political standing. To Trine Skei Grande, I can only say that SV has a dictionary that sits in the library and meets its inhabitants at opening times that fit the inhabitants, so that the call that we received from the Left, we have in a way already completed. We're very busy meeting the inhabitants around, whether we're councillors or spokesmen, and I think that's true of more people.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07-2.ana.ud2109e274	As a result, the interpellation debate in case No. 5 ended. The size goes to voting in the matters on today's map where it is voting theme. The President makes it clear that he has chosen to start the ring so that you do not sit for five minutes and wait. It saves time. It is a prerequisite, then, that when you get into the Chamber, you try to remain in peace with respect for the last speaker before the debate ends. We're going to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07-2.ana.ud2109e283	People aren't in position yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07-2.ana.ud2109e290	OK, then we wait until we're absolutely sure that the Storting is composed as it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07-2.ana.ud2109e296	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 2 and 3 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07-2.ana.ud2109e304	During the debate, Anders Anundsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government asks the Government in line with the majority observations in the Inst. S. No Making the second foreign language compulsory at the level of youth during the introduction of the Knowledge Commitment in the autumn of 2006.» [[2003-2004]] This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07-2.ana.ud2109e341	In Case No: 4 and 5 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-03-07-2.ana.ud2109e380	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
