ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-14.ana.ud908e37	The representatives of Trond Helleland, Thomas Breen, Saera Khan, Hallgeir H. Langeland, Kåre Fostervold and Jon Hunter Gåsvatn, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: From the delegation of the Storting to the 52nd session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Quebec, an application has been submitted, signed by the Head of the Delegation, the EEAS representative Per Ove Width. The application concerns a period of leave from 14 November to 16 November for the representatives of Lars Peder Breck, Jan Arild Ellingsen, Eirin Faldet, Sverre Myrli, Tore Nordtun, Jan Petersen and Per Ove Wide. From the representatives of Torbjørn Andersen and Asmund Kristoffersen as well as from the meeting representative of Oslo, Karin Yrvin, there is an application for leave from 14 November to 16 November, and from the representative of Gunnar Kvassheim on leave on 15 and 16 November – all to attend the high-level part of the 12th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change and the second meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol in Nairobi. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate of the Rogaland County, Unn Therese O. Sørensen, is prevented from meeting in Stortinget under the mandate of the representative Tore Nordtun. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For East-Agder counties: Ingrid SkårmoFor Akershus County: Cathrin Bretzeg and Gorm KjernliFor Hedmark County: Tone Merete SønsterudFor Møre and Romsdal County: Else-May BottenFor Nordland County: Toril Ø. HanssenFor Oslo: Khalid MahmoodFor Rogaland County: Espen Torsteinsbø Hansen and Helge Solum LarsenFor Nord-Trondeland County: Anna Ceselie BrustadFor Westfold County: Jan Fredrik Vogt2. Cathrin Bretzeg and Jan Fredrik Vogt are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet for the representatives Jan Petersen and Per Ove Width respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-14.ana.ud908e151	Ingrid Skårmo, Cathrin Bretzeg, Gorm Kjernli, Tone Merete Sønsterud, Else-May Botten, Toril Ø. Hanssen, Khalid Mahmood, Espen Torsteinsbø Hansen, Anna Ceselie Brustad and Jan Fredrik Vogt are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-14.ana.ud908e157	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Kenneth Svendsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Kenneth Svendsen is considered unanimously elected president of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-14.ana.ud908e178	The case concerns the inclusion of a regulation relating to prospectuses in the EEA Agreement. The Prospectus Regulation intends to supplement an earlier Directive on prospectuses to be published when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading and to amend another Directive. The Prospectus Regulation includes, inter alia: detailed rules on minimum information to be included in prospectuses, the format of prospectuses, the requirements for an annual update of the information and publication of prospectuses. The position of the Financial Committee is unanimous. The draft decision has been forwarded to the Foreign Affairs Committee, which has no comments on the matter. In the case, it is clear that the abovementioned regulation will have financial and administrative implications. This applies both to Oslo Børs and to the Credit Authority. The credit supervision has even used today’s regulation to argue for increased budgets in 2004, 2005 and 2006. On this basis, the members of the Financial Committee of the Progress Party shall, in the form of comments, state that: ‘The starting point for cooperation between countries within the EEA area was to create uniform and comparable economic governance and control mechanisms and to reduce the needs of each country for public administration and bureaucracy. These members note that, over the last three years, increased appropriations for the credit supervision are partly justified by the fact that the supervision is given new tasks for the purposes of the prospectus control, and thus record the opposite impact of this EEA Regulation’. So, what was one of the intentions of joining the EEA was to reduce public bureaucracy and administration. This prospectus regulation has the opposite effect – and I do not think that is the first. The Progress Party is surprised that the other parties do not wish to join such a modest reminder of parts of the basis for Norway’s accession to the EEA Agreement. As a non-bureaucratic and official, I have learned for myself how public structures tend to grow and to justify themselves. The Progress Party wishes, with its comments, to give a signal that the public sector must also give priority to its tasks. However, the responsibility for the growth of administration and bureaucracy lies alone in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-14.ana.ud908e202	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 471]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-14.ana.ud908e222	There's a lot of trouble along the coast these days. This concern is linked to the sum of measures and proposals, or lack of action in some areas, in the fisheries sector. The alarm is expressed almost daily in Norwegian fishing press with criticism by the Government of prominent speakers of a broad range of actors whom I would never have thought would be so clear that they want to return to the previous government's fisheries policy. One, to say the total fishing industry, will simply not have the government's new policy course. They have said that the uncertainty that is now being created will contribute to greater unprofitability, and it will contribute to a deterioration in the supply and safety of the Norwegian fishing industry. There are five points which constitute these problematic areas of fisheries policy. The first is probably the most current issue — a NOx tax that destroys the profitability of large parts of the fishing vessels, and which will have ring-effects on land, with consequences for how boats will adapt to this. There is now a structural freeze that has been going on for over a year and that helps nobody to know what progress is going to be, where the answers are not coming, and where the indications of responses that have been outlined are perceived to be one step back in relation to the objective of having a profitable, internationally oriented, export-oriented fishing industry in Norway. There are regulations relating to delivery obligations that are felt meaningless for the fish industry on land. Boats will feel less paid than before because they are forced to deliver one place, while those who are to accept do not specialize in accepting that type of catch. As a result, both the level of processing and the prices for fishermen are going to get worse, and it is therefore felt as meaningless both for the boats to deliver and for the industry to receive. Then we have an unfair net pay system – a net pay system that now contributes to a competition for the labour force that causes fishing boats to lose labour every day – in the direction of subsidised boats, which are therefore within the net pay system. And then we've got district quotas back in place. First of all, they are district hostile, and with the margins that are, they contribute to making the industry more difficult to operate for the actors. What is my primary question in this interpellation is about the Government, and the Minister for Fisheries, see the consequences of what is happening under these five conditions at the same time, and whether the consequence will be to make the fishing industry, which has been able to become a subsidy-free industry in the years since 1990 — where in 2004 optimism both on land and at sea — a new subsidy industry. So you weaken the land-based industry and at the same time you weaken the fishing recruitment and profitability of the fishing industry itself. So let me go into the different points. The NOx fee affects the fishing fleet with full weight. According to estimates from Norway's Fiskarlag on which bill the fishermen themselves have to pay, it is not nearly 300 million. kr, as the department says, but a total of 500 million. kr. On average, it's 1.2 million. kr per. boat, but it could be up to 5-6 million. kr per. boat. The fee affects 400 boats, according to the industry itself. The NOx fee is therefore a cost with an impact on the profitability of each boat. The NOx tax will help to make it less profitable to deliver in Norway as well. Then you will adapt – those who can adapt, that is, that part of the fleet that is not bound by delivery obligations. That part of the fleet will have the opportunity to go abroad with the raw material, and also to bulge without paying the NOx fee. This is very serious for the fishing industry. It is not just that the NOx tax will directly help to make the boats less profitable, but it will also help to make the industry on land, the jobs on land, less profitable, simply because there are fewer deliveries. Fish to a first-hand value of almost DKK 2.5 billion will be at risk of being landed abroad, according to the Fischboatowners' Association. In the discussion on district allowances, 3500 tonnes are then relatively small. The ring-fenced impact of the NOx tax will be that more lights, more businesses will turn off along the coast and less processing and further development in Norway. In addition, part of the fishing industry that continues to live on small margins and can become directly unprofitable as a result of this charge. The shrimp fishing with ten clean shrimp trawlers and some combi boats, sea radiating in the North Sea, colloidal fishing and line fishing for brosme are examples of fisheries that are going to be unprofitable at this fee. So maybe the Council of State will answer, yes, but that's the way we've put money into conversion. But perhaps the money for conversion should be set aside so that the conversion was done before the levy was introduced. Then you might have managed to get this kind of in a race that made it possible for the industry to handle it. Norwegian shrimp - shrimp fishing is one of the industries that we've really experienced, among other things. due to problems with market access to the EU – today’s technology will cost 1 pound more than the corresponding shrimp in Iceland. There won't be much light in the houses along the coast, and that probably means it'll be harder to get the country bill, or harder to sell. And the cost gets bigger. The second point is the delivery obligations. For the part of the industry that cannot adapt by moving the supply abroad, a new regulation relating to delivery obligations has been introduced. It seems to be tailor-made to hit the two largest companies in the whitefish sector, Nergård and Aker Seafoods. These two companies are subject to almost absurd delivery obligations and raw material processing requirements. The consequence of this is that the boats are both paid less for what they deliver, and that several of the companies that have been set up again in recent years are going to experience worse times. I would like to remind the Minister for Fisheries of that, among other things. was told from Aker Seafoods in the previous period, when she, as district rapporteur, told me that they wanted to reopen businesses along the Finnmark coast, and it was that the previous government had helped to make it profitable both for water and for land. Now she contributes to the opposite, and can also help to make the businesses in her own home country more vulnerable again. The net pay scheme contributes to a fight for the labour force that is unfair to the fishing boat side. This means that we should go back and look at how we can increase labour supply to other parts of the coastal and maritime industries by other means than just competing with the fishing boat industry, but also that the net pay system should have been changed. The net remuneration scheme amounts to DKK 170 000 per year. male in subsidies. It makes a big difference when you know what you can offer in extra pay to recruit the people who are currently working in the fishing industry and on the boat. So the longer-term questions that are related to, among other things. structural freezers. The government has stated that it considered that the fisheries policy did not have sufficient legitimacy and stopped the existing arrangements that have actually been agreed over the past 25 years. To ask questions about which fisheries policy has legitimacy, I think the Council of State should check how Norwegian fishing industry reacts to the measures it has implemented. The legitimacy is not exactly what rays, from the industry's point of view. An overall industry will have back the policy of structural policy pursued under the previous government. Representatives of the LO, the FHL, the Federation of Fishermen, the Fiskerlag, the University of Tromsø and the NHO conclude by supporting the political course that we have paved and that has followed a line that has been in the last 20 years – yes, even internally in the Workers' Party, it is not support for the policy. My question is, When will the Minister for Fisheries turn back on the fisheries policy of the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-14.ana.ud908e280	Let us agree on one thing: Norwegian fishing and aquaculture industry is doing very well today! The latest export figures from the Fish Export Committee show that by the end of October this year we had exported fish for 28 billion kroner, which is an increase of over 3 billion kroner compared to the same period last year. Nevertheless, many small fisheries-dependent communities are struggling, and they have been doing so for several years. To me – and to the Government for the rest – the development of living coastal and rural communities is a central political objective. The government wants people to have real freedom of choice to live where they want to. We know that many people want to live along the coast, but it requires that they have a safe and good job to do, and then it is of great importance which fisheries policy is being pursued. This government is leading a fisheries policy with a strong societal perspective. The fleet side, the agricultural industry and the industry's ring-fences must be seen in the context. Of course, we must conduct a fisheries policy that facilitates business profitability, but in addition we must take care of important societal concerns. I believe it is possible to have two thoughts in my head at the same time. In recent years, we have seen that many fisheries-dependent communities have worn out very heavily as a result of bankruptcies in the fishing industry, with high unemployment and relocation as a result. It's a situation that responsible politicians can't just sit and watch. It is important to take action, and it is important to assist vulnerable communities to survive and further develop as viable places of work, housing and growth. I strongly believe that these societies were not adequately protected under the previous government. This government, on the other hand, must work actively to take care of these places. As of the first day, the Government has taken action and initiated processes to guide Norwegian fisheries and aquaculture policies in a new direction. We're not on target, but big and important processes are going well. Firstly, we have taken up the fight against the massive overfishing in the Barents Sea, which represents huge losses of revenue every year, estimated at 1.5 billion in crown value. Despite the serious impact of overfishing on Norwegian fishing industries and fisheries-dependent communities along the coast, the previous government was completely absent from this important issue. Our government has strengthened control both at sea and on land, we have proposed changes to Norwegian legislation, and not least we have put this issue firmly on the international agenda. Secondly, the Government has launched the marine value creation programme and proposed close to doubling the appropriations allocated to the 2007 programme compared to the year’s allocation. This programme is designed to stimulate innovation and more market-setting, so that we get more dollars per cent. kilos of fish. In particular, efforts shall be made up to the next year on those parts of the coast with specific migration needs. In Norwegian fisheries policy, there is a long tradition of managing fishing resources as a Community resource to benefit the whole of the coast, and of ensuring value creation and employment both at sea and on land. It's a tradition that this government will continue. The structural policy of the fishing fleet has been addressed in the Stortinget several times in the last 20 years. There has been a broad cross-political agreement that fishing capacity should be adapted to the resource base in order to achieve sustainable development in the industry and to ensure profitability in the fleet. There has also been a broad consensus on how this should be done. This was a cross-political consensus that lasted until 2003. The Bondevik II Government then promoted proposals for a new direction in structural policy, which resulted in a fragmented expansion. Among other things, there was a proposal by the minority in the Business Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, that the societal impact of implementing structural measures on coastal fishing fleets had to be investigated and that these investigations had to be carried out before structural measures could be implemented. This was the option of the bourgeois majority to disregard, and the introduction of the new structural quota system for coastal fishing fleets, against the votes of the SV and the Central Party, and the choice was made to make structural quotas permanent, despite the resistance of the Workers' Party. In 2005, it was decided to replace the unit quota scheme in the sea-fleet by a structural quota scheme, without at all presenting the case to the Stortinget, for major protests from the then opposition parties. The result had to be as it has been: since then, the structural debate has created high waves, both inside and outside the industry. And what does that show? Well, it shows that the structural arrangements put in place have not been sufficiently uplifted, either inside or outside the hall we are now in. Already in the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government announced that we would review the structural measures for the fishing fleet. We have now done that, and we have a good basis to build further work on before we conclude. I don't think it's possible to run a fisheries policy that's all 100 pst. agree, much less a structural policy that everyone agrees with. Nevertheless, I believe that it is absolutely right and absolutely necessary to have this broad debate, in which all interested and interested parties have the opportunity to participate, and not least to ensure that the Stortinget can deal with the matter, through the big picture that will be presented over the New Year. The industry is also interested in the broadest possible legitimacy of structural policy. A survey published in the Fisheries newspaper on 8 August this year showed that 59 pst. by the asked fishermen supported the structural break in whole or in part. The interpellant points out that the NOx fee will hit the fishing fleet hard. It is true that all charges have consequences. However, through the Gothenburg Protocol already in 1999, i.e. under the Bondevik I Government, Norway committed itself to cutting NOx emissions to 156 000 tonnes by 2010. This implies a reduction of nearly 30 pst. compared to emissions in 2004. That deadline is getting closer and closer. The previous government had four years to implement the Gothenburg obligations, without doing anything. As a result, we are now in a hurry to reach goals before 2010. The NOx tax has been one of the measures in question for a long time. It also signalled the Bondevik II government in its last draft state budget, but no concrete fee was proposed. As the interpellant has been involved, there are 270 million in the state budget. kr to grant of NOx mitigation measures. Furthermore, the Minister of Finance has said that she would listen to industry input on the implementation of the levy. This has been done by the Minister of Finance, and therefore the government parties propose two alternatives to meeting the fishing industry, either to go for a fund solution where the NOx tax is entered into on a fund to be used for NOx mitigation measures or to introduce a transitional system with a fee-reimbursement scheme for taxable activities which has been agreed with a workshop by 1 June 2007. on the time of the installation of cleaning equipment. Upon application, when the abatement equipment is installed, a percentage of charges is refunded corresponding to the difference between the original emissions and emissions after the installation of the abatement equipment, for the period from 1 January 2007 until the abatement equipment is in place. The background to this proposal is that the lack of workshop capacity may create problems with the installation of cleaning equipment before the entry into force of the charge, so that full charges must be paid for a transitional period until there is capacity to implement the emission reduction measure. If implemented, it could represent a significant cost to the affected persons for a shorter period. In addition to these two proposals, therefore, fishing vessels will benefit from the NOx reduction in investment itself. In addition, in its consultation proposal on the design of the fee, the Minister for Finance has proposed a design that will not contribute to the landing of catches abroad. As far as I understand, this is a scheme with which the industry is satisfied. As I said, we are doing well in the Norwegian fishing industry today. It's good times. I am convinced that the red-green fisheries policy will lead to the possibility of doing just that for those societies that have not benefited from the rise times.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-14.ana.ud908e341	I find it interesting that the criticism of the NOx fee has worked. I think it is interesting that the Government is now, in effect, defeating its own proposals in the Grand Duchy, through its own government parties. I'm not sure that's enough. But I think it shows that this government has not seen the consequences, and that the Minister for Fisheries has not done his job in the Government in explaining to his colleagues the consequences this would have for the fishing industry. Then we'll see if the conversions made in the case of the NOx tax will give the result that you don't get the negative consequences we've said it will have. I still think it's going to contribute to less profitability, I think it's still going to contribute to weakened delivery, and I think that, in particular, the marginal portions of fisheries, which currently have major problems with their cost side, are going to experience this as negative and difficult measures to adapt to. Let me say something about the story to the Minister of Fisheries. She's more concerned with telling the story of others than telling about the consequences of her own policy. Yes, the fishing industry is doing well now, because the Government has not yet implemented any of the measures they have on the steps, because it continues to be governed by the fisheries policy provided by the previous government. But if you implement the measures that have now been set up, you will do something, you will get a different kind of policy. And it's not history that it was the previous government that changed the gear or changed the fisheries policy. I find it interesting to see what previous fisheries ministers, those who have previously managed the fisheries policy, say about what is happening. Among other things, Peter Angelsen, who was Minister of Fisheries in Norway before the last government joined, says that the government continued the main lines of the fisheries policy that he also stood for and that the former workers' party fisheries ministers stood for. What happened in the previous period was that the Workers' Party changed its position. You can't load others for what you put the most emphasis on, so you don't care that it should be a profitable fishing industry. So I have to say, yes, we're going to have two thoughts in our head at the same time. In this context, consideration should be given to the impact of all the different measures. I would like to have had time to go through a good example from Andøya, which shows both the costs of the proposals that you have, will provide the municipality of Andøya, which is the joint owner of a fish destination and in boats, and also the consequences it will have over time for the purchases in the municipality. Making fishing boats less profitable will help reduce the number of jobs recruited to the fishing industry, it will help to reduce the number of landings in Norway, and it will help reduce coastal jobs. And it's not like there's going to be fewer jobs along the Finnmark coast because of the policies of the previous government. There were several jobs along the Finnmark coast due to the policies of the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-14.ana.ud908e363	Since the submission of the State budget, the Minister for Fisheries has said that she wants a dialogue with the fishing industry on the design of the NOx fee. She has followed it up, and I think it is strange that the representative Solberg criticizes the Government for having listened to the industry. The way in which the NOx charge is designed will take into account both the profitability of the fleet and ensure a good marine environment, which the whole industry and the coastal population will benefit from in the long term. The Deltakers Act states that the fishing fleet shall be owned by active fishermen. So it is that, over time, different industrial enterprises have been exempted from the Act of Participation so that they can own ships. In return, they are, logically enough, subject to universal service obligations in defined areas or enterprises. In other words, the universal service system is designed to ensure raw material for the fishing industry in certain areas, in order to take account of employment and housing. A broad evaluation of this scheme was launched in 2005. It was the previous Minister for Fisheries who started, so it could be that he also had some concerns about whether the delivery order worked as intended. In the light of the evaluation and experience gained with the implementation of the scheme, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has consulted on a proposal to tighten delivery conditions. The proposal shall ensure that more of the raw material covered by universal service is actually processed in the beneficiary enterprises or areas, thus ensuring both business profitability and a social benefit. The hearing opinions are now being evaluated in the ministry, and we will shortly adopt the final legislation. The interpellant also points out that the net pay scheme threatens the recruitment of the fleet. Then I have to remember that the net pay scheme was introduced as a temporary scheme in 1993, and it has been evaluated and amended several times since then. There has been a broad consensus in the UK that this scheme is important in order to ensure employment of Norwegian seafarers and to maintain a strong Norwegian maritime industry. The Bondevik II Government addressed the reimbursement and net pay arrangements in the Maritime Communication in 2004. There was a notification of a conversion of the reimbursement scheme for seafarers within the existing framework, and no reduction or closure was suggested. In the maritime navigation message, the fishing fleet was also specifically mentioned. It was established that there are key differences between the fishing fleet and the merchant fleet in terms of the competitive situation and aid legislation and that there was no proposed inclusion of the fishing fleet in the reimbursement and net pay arrangements. In other words, the Bondevik II government had the same attitude to the issue of net wages for the fishing fleet as expressed by the current government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-14.ana.ud908e382	Clearly, the right-wing leader is very pleased with his own government's fisheries policy. It's not surprising. It was just a right-wing policy. Former fisheries minister Svein Ludvigsen managed to recreate the disturbing art of reproducing the classic contradictions between capital-intensive western fishermen and coastal fishermen in North Norway. I am not particularly surprised that the Right Leader, through this interpellation, confirms the position of his party in this conflict. With a pen stroke and without consulting the Stortinget, Ludvigsen’s Norwegian fisheries policy changed overnight at a particular point. It's not a small achievement. When he terminated the system of fixed-term structural quotas, he also did something about the right to fish. He made the structural quotas a very desirable commodity. At the moment eternal allowances could be sold freely, the market value increased to staggering heights. It went as it had to, when market forces are allowed to rule. Those who could pay what it cost bought allowances. But the main premium went to those who had allowances to sell, and who wanted out of industry. This is how our joint ownership has gradually been privatized. I do not think it is least strange that those who are left with the greatest gains after the release in this area are leading the fight against a new fisheries policy. The right-hand manager is almost an echo of the fishing boatowners when she now attacks everything from district quotas and universality to the net pay system for seafarers, structural breaks and NOx fees. It is not uncommon for those who scream loudest to get the most attention. It doesn't have to mean that they're representative of the industry. I can't see that the mariners' organisations have made demands for net wages in the sea fishing fleet. On the other hand, they are very pleased that we are avoiding the flagging out of important jobs on international voyages, on cargo ships and in the offshore fleet. The right-wing leader is obviously right in one thing: the competition for the labour force in the sea fishing fleet would undoubtedly be easier if we had done as the Bondevik government wanted, and terminated the net pay system. Then thousands of unemployed seafarers were probably in line to get jobs in the sea fishing fleet. On Friday I visited an old Right-Man on Andøya. He's actually at the diplomat's office today. Ole Nilsen has been running the family business J M Nilsen for more than 50 years. There are two reasons why people live in the communities of Pink and Nordmela. It's the rich fish fields right outside and the processing plants of J M Nilsen. I'm going to believe that Ole Nilsen has his own say to the Right Management. He's for district quotas. Recently, five of the boats supplying to his facility received district allowances of a total of 50 tonnes. It's coming very well. Ole Nilsen's problem is that he does not have enough raw material during periods of the year. He is annoyed that a seagoing fishing vessel freezes the fish and sends it to China instead of delivering to Norwegian processing plants. Short-term profit counts more than Norwegian value creation, says Ole Nilsen. That is why he is for universal service and for production. It is possible to believe that people should not live on Pink, or that the community in Nordmela does not have the right to life. There are many such total fishing-dependent communities along our coast. Market forces and market forces are not the answer to Ole Nilsen's problems. He is dependent on the ‘Andey Arc’ freshwater trawler’s universal service obligations. That is why we need a different fisheries policy than the Right now champions. That's why we have the structural peak. That is why we have the structural investigation. That is why we are receiving a big message about structural policy. In contrast to the Right, this government places emphasis on the main elements of the fisheries policy, that they should be anchored in the Stortinget and that they should have the widest possible legitimacy in the industry. At the moment, the Industry Committee is dealing with two propositions which, individually, will have a significant impact on the fishing industry. One will protect Norwegian fishermen’s access to fishing; the other will apply to Norwegian penalties against vessels engaged in illegal fishing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-14.ana.ud908e415	The Council of State began its contribution by saying that Norwegian fishing industry is doing very well. If you look at the export figures, you can agree with that. However, the debate today is about the future of the Norwegian fishing industry. It doesn't look very good there. When you have a debate about regional quotas, about who is going to get fish, and who is not going to get fish, it is quite interesting. If you want to get a fish, you have to get that fish somewhere. In other words, there are some farms on land that are not going to get that fish. If you want to strengthen Pink, you also have to tell us where to get that fish. Is it from Husøy on Senja, and make sure there's unemployment there? Is it from Skjervøy, and make sure there's unemployment there? Or is it from Melbu and Aker Seafood, and make sure there are more unemployed there? You have to take the whole equation, and not just tell us about the positive sides. You also have to tell us where you actually pick up the fish. It is not that, based on political considerations, more fish come into the sea automatically, and that it can be used to get activity around. It is a fact — whether you like it or not — that there is overcapacity at sea and overcapacity on land. It must be dealt with and recognized, and made sure that the necessary steps are taken to strengthen the industry both at sea and on land, so that it is possible to operate financially soundly. The Norwegian fishing industry is mainly an export industry. It is non-subsidized, but it is highly competitive. The Norwegian fishing industry meets are barriers to trade in the EU, Russia and the United States. It's meeting a huge illegal fishing. Comparing Norwegian fishing industry with other industries, the petroleum industry has tax incentives to expand fields. Snow White is such an example. Shipping has a net payroll order. Power-intensive industry has favourable power contracts. I'm not going to mention agriculture, with all its billions of transfers. But what does Norwegian fishing industry meet? Well, it meets demands, charges, impositions, regulations, intensifications, universality, district allowances, etc., etc. It is soon time for Norwegian fishing industry to be treated as an industry and not as a political tool in district policy. Yesterday it was revealed that over 100 trawlers operate and plunder the Barents Sea daily. It represents enormous resources. Overfishing exceeds 100000 tonnes. I think it's about time the government started to become more active in the control of the Barents Sea. It is not always possible to push it in front of you having a dialogue, and to make a number of decisions to control the fish that is landed, you actually have to get out soon where crime is being committed. Here I think the government has been very passive. We're going to seize our alternative state budget and significantly strengthen the Coast Guard. This, I think, is definitely the time for the government to start taking over, so that we become masters in our own house with regard to the Barents Sea. The net pay system has been in the debate. We believe that a net pay regime for Norwegian shipping is absolutely necessary in order to meet competition from foreign shipping. Then you get into the dilemma that Norwegian fishermen compete with the offshore fleet in terms of recruitment. There's a lot of ways to solve that problem. Norway’s Fiskarlag has said that if you increase the fishing deduction to NOK 150 000, you have come a long way. That is what we are going to propose in the alternative state budget that we are going to present, in order to address the recruitment problem in the fishing industry. Finally, about the NOx fee: I think it is a pleasure that the bulk of the population is about to cancel that fee as well. Yesterday it was the diesel charge for pleasure boats that was zeroed out, in relation to what the government came with. That there are always more such things, we think are positive. In the case of the NOx fee, we record one policy in the case of cars and another in the case of fishing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-14.ana.ud908e438	The right-wing leader, Erna Solberg, has taken an important initiative in a debate on the Government's change of course in the field of fisheries policy. In just one year it has become a situation in this industry that makes it imperative for the Storting to continue a discussion on the road. The fishing industry is of great importance for value creation, employment and coastal settlement. The fishing industry contributes to the ‘light in the house’, an image that the Minister of Fisheries himself has used a number of times. The problem is that the government, with its proposals for new regulations and charges, is about to turn off the lights along the coast. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the Government is to invest in strategically important industries. National strategies are to be developed in industries where Norway has a particularly high competence or natural advantage, and the Soria Moria Declaration draws on this in particular the marine sector, which is mentioned first in a number of five key industries. This might seem promising for someone. But the good mood from a year back has now turned to a broad coastal uprising against the Government. It may appear that most of the initiatives taken by the Government in the fisheries sector are incorrect and cross-cutting. The fishing press has a lookout for negative changes to the framework conditions. Tongue organisations such as the Norwegian Fisheries Team, the Federation of Fishermen and the Association of Fishery and Aquaculture have given clear signals on a case-by-case basis, where the Government has changed its policy course. It is not like the representative of Gullvåg tried to produce it, that it is only the League of Fishermen who protest against the change in course that has taken place in the last year. One would almost think that the government had a separate goal in itself to go against the interests of the industry. The warning lights that are now lit along the coast do so as a result of policy decisions, not as a result of external circumstances such as crown price, resource access problems or other fundamental issues that are difficult to manage in the short term. Right will have a fisheries policy that creates profitable and safe jobs along the coast. Profitability and predictability are necessary for a large investment industry. Profitability is achieved by investing in modern equipment and by giving companies the freedom to operate effectively. The fishermen made great investments under the structural policy of the previous government. Investment in new vessels is good for the environment, it is good for the recruitment of the fishing industry, and it is good for the profitability of the fleet. Therefore, it was a very serious estimate that the government abruptly stopped the structure scheme last harvest. This has led to a breakout that the fishing industry did not need. I think that the Government should soon realise that cutting off rest is a practice, both in research and fisheries policy and in other policy areas. Norwegian business does not live in a vacuum. The world goes on, and rest cutting means you're being overlooked by others. The structural freeze does not allow the fishing industry to make good use of fleet investment. This adds tens of millions of dollars to the largest actors in annual losses. Rest cutting in the fishing industry is not exactly met by a rest cutting in the offshore industry. While the fishing fleet is in stable side rental, the offshore industry contracts so that billions of contracts pass by on a daily basis in the media. As of 1 July this year, Norwegian offshore shipping companies had contracted 119 modern offshore vessels with delivery by 2009. Of the 119 vessels, 85 are to be built in Norwegian shipyards. A conservative estimate shows that these vessels generate a need of 2000 to 2500 new seafarers. Modern ships with firm, good pay conditions – two weeks, four weeks off-turnus – have good odds against a fishing fleet that is struggling with the government's rest cutting. The structural freeze is not the sole political disadvantage of fishermen. In addition, the net pay system of the offshore industry will amount to up to DKK 170 000 in State aid per year. the person and a proposal for a NOx charge which is so distinct from the profitability of the vessels that many will bow down. The device for the NOx tax is specifically designed to collect money from the state budget. It is not specifically designed to reduce emissions, it is specifically designed to collect money into the State budget. I think the right of retreat in this area that the Council of State signaled instead is a good strategy. I believe that the right of retreat is a good strategy for other political measures that the Government has taken in the field of fisheries. In addition, the Government has just submitted a budget to reinforce the problem of crew competition, through net salaries on Hurtigruten. The right considers that the net wage arrangements provided to shipping companies by shipping policy are necessary, but it also makes it necessary to ensure that these companies are able to use qualified crews from other nations. This will significantly ease the pressure on the Norwegian fishing industry crews. At a time when there is a great shortage of people both in the offshore industry and in the fisheries industry, such a reform could be carried out in a smooth and good way. I have recorded that the Minister for Fisheries is also meeting in his own ranks for the new fisheries policy. This is not surprising. The reality is that the government is putting about a policy that the Labour Party has also been behind for many years. On 5 September, Mr Svein Gichleth of the Workers' Party in Møre and Mr Romsdal said to Mr Sunnmørspost on the Minister for Fisheries: ‘Here she is in a position to act with the industry and with what the Labour Party has stood for until today.’ In 2002 and 2003, parts of the Norwegian fishing industry continued to subside as a result of a strong exchange rate. This was a major challenge, because it is not easy for politicians to influence the krone price without further delay. Today, the problems are political. The problems can easily be solved by scrapping the effort made by the Workers' Party in its fisheries policy experiment. After a year of a new course, we have learned that it might not be so wise to change a policy that works.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-14.ana.ud908e475	Interpellant Erna Solberg is not satisfied with the government's structural freeze. The structural freeze I would call a pause of thought in this context. Norwegian fisheries policy deserved a pause of thought, especially after the last government introduced negotiable everlasting quotas. We needed a pause of thought, and it used the new red-green government, among other things. to produce a NOU providing a good knowledge base for bringing the fisheries policy to a new and better footing. SV is very pleased with the new Minister for Fisheries, who underlines the strong societal perspective we must have on fisheries policy. SV is very pleased that the Government, unlike the Bondevik II Government, takes our international commitments seriously. The introduction of NOx is important and proper for the environment and for our collective responsibility under the Gothenburg Protocol. SV is also committed to universal service because it will ensure employment and activity in many large and small coastal communities. We have to take care of that. SV is quite happy with the fisheries policy that the Minister is targeting here today. We want the new fisheries policy to stimulate employment and housing by combining the best of our fishing tradition with modern innovation and innovation, using new technologies and market knowledge. We want a local value creation that can secure jobs both on ships and on land, where a small proportion of the resources are sent around the world to be processed and returned to the freezer counters in Norway. Summary: The government, with a structural freeze, has introduced a necessary pause of thought, a break that is used to strike out a new red-green course in the fisheries policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-14.ana.ud908e493	Norwegian fishing industry is one of our most important industries. In addition, the synergy effect in the form of Norwegian supplies of goods and services is very important. The fishing industry in Norway has thousands of years of tradition and, up through history, has shown both the ability and the willingness to adapt to changing conditions – quite a change at times. In our time, these changes are going at a much faster rate than they did in the past. However, the industry has still shown both the ability and the willingness to adapt and to drive without being dependent on government support. The fish are not familiar with complaining, but they have an eloquent, clear and clear language. And now the Norwegian fishing industry is frustrated – ‘no doubt about that’. It actually starts with the red-green government's abrupt stop in the structure quota system. The fisherman is losing his courage, but he's losing his temper. We demand to get a clear message about what we should stick to, was the censure. In addition, it turns out that the net pay system, which is itself a good system, has led to a significant distortion of competition in the fight for labour, and the loser is Norwegian fishing industry. Note that the fishing industry does not request a net pay scheme but asks for a level playing field. Then came the proposal for a NOx tax, which could be a disaster for the Norwegian fishing industry. Up to 5–6 million DKK in additional expenditure on one fishing vessel, and in addition a significant reduction in raw material access to Norwegian fish processing plants. Again a clear language from the fishing industry. We should contribute to significant NOx reduction, but then the government must listen to us, and to a comprehensive Norwegian business life, is the birthright. And the penalty is very clear: suspending the introduction of the NOx charge for six months, and let's get a fund solution, and we're going to be able to reduce NOx emissions significantly. This important and currently strong industry needs stable and sustainable framework conditions. They need to know what they can expect from the future, for example. when planning large investments. So far, the red-green plural government has in no way shown the ability or the will to fulfill this desire, rather the opposite. It is now high time that the Minister for Fisheries took a different approach and showed that the Government is taking Norwegian fishing seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-14.ana.ud908e518	The interpellant began by saying that there was a great deal of concern in the fishing industry, and mentioned a number of organisations that were concerned about the measures taken by the Minister for Fisheries. I wish the same interpellant had taken a trip along the coast and talked with the coastal population, municipalities and county municipalities, especially in the north. There would then have been considerable concern about the past fisheries policy that had been implemented. I think it is too simple and too unsound a picture of the state of the fisheries sector. I can say in all modesty that I am also speaking as the former rapporteur in a small coastal community that was heavily dependent on fisheries. I find that the fleet has made money, to varying degrees, depending on whether it is coastal or large, sea-going fleet. I note that the fishing industry has made money, including to varying degrees. To say that after 2004, the fishing industry is running black numbers, alone because there has been a fisheries policy that has resulted in it, is to simplify it strongly. The traditional, heavy fishing industry has had problems, but we see that some companies have changed their product range and moved into new variants that have made them earn money. More fresh products and some good money have been made. We've had a market that's been asking for fish more than before. We've had a boom that has contributed to the positive numbers. That is why I think we should nuance the picture more, and not black paint it, as we have done now, when the Minister for Fisheries has been in favour of a pause of thought, which is very much necessary. When you refer to various organizations that are skeptical, I would like to ask you to listen a little bit to Professor Torbjørn Trondsen at Norway's fishing school in Tromsø and what he has said about the consequences of the fisheries policy course you let yourself in. Also listen to senior researcher Bent Dreyer at Fisheries Research, who has said that as a fishing nation we have a unique opportunity if we play our cards properly. The United Nations Food Organization says that 80 pst. of the fishing resources are overtaxed. By 2030, with today's production, we will not cover more than 50 pst. of the world's fish needs. This means that in a short time Norway will face a situation where the products of the sea will produce sounding coins in the box. Then you have to ask the question: Do you meet the operational steps that have been taken in the past, the big challenge we see on the market in the coming time? We've had a fleet that has turned focus towards volume and been less concerned with quality. I think that's wrong. I could show many examples that there has been a decline in the quality of key market products. When we have a market that demands more quality than ever and is willing to pay a better price for quality products, we have a unique opportunity that we do not have to conceal, and then we do not have to draw a too negative picture of the industry that might be Norway's future industry. The centre party does not want the privatisation of the shared resources we have. We don't want a greater concentration of ownership. We don't want a regime of quota barons and sea urchins. We also do not want a resource rate. When the interpellant was concerned that we have poor recruitment [[President clubs]] Finally, I would like to quote a lady in Northern Ireland named Bente Aasjord: the idea of letting the quota barons and sea lizards run off with the economic resources and sending the tax money to the coastal community is like giving Africa glass beads in colonial times. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-14.ana.ud908e545	The President must ask that speaking time be observed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-14.ana.ud908e548	I want to start by thanking the inter-pellant for focusing on the profitability and future of fisheries, because this will focus on the political divides of the Norwegian fisheries policy. Fishing and aquaculture are our second largest export industry. That is why this industry is important for our country, and not least for regional and regional policy, which in turn has a major impact on coastal construction patterns. The Soria Moria Declaration announces a new fisheries policy and a new direction. That's right. If we are to have a future-oriented and innovative fisheries policy, we must also be ambitious and have the right tool to promote such a development. A new fisheries policy must involve sound management, fair distribution and, not least, profitable jobs. Therefore, corporate economic profitability is an undertaking to ensure the creation of value for the benefit of the community, and we are all concerned about it. It must apply both in the aquaculture industry, at fleet level and in the agricultural industry. In addition, the arrangements for fisheries policy will have a major impact on the development of small and large coastal communities in a good and positive direction. The red-green government has from now on a new grip and started processes that will make the fishing industry more profitable and more innovative. There is no need to think that a target already exists, because much work remains, not least through work associated with the so-called Structure Selection. This work is well done, and several good actions will be established in the near future. But first we have to carry out a good and proper democratic process with good recordings and debates. It's our government busy, unlike the government representative Solberg put in. The government of the representative of Solberg transformed the unit quota system into a system of structural quotas without the Stortinget being dealt with. In other words, there was one thing that lacks legitimacy. Although many in the fishing industry support this conversion, it does not mean that everyone was equally happy about it. So it lacks legitimacy. When addressing structural policy, it is important to bear in mind that the purpose of the structural quota system is to reduce, among other things, the structural quota system. overcapacity. The fishing fleet must be adapted to the resource base in order to increase profitability and bring about a renewal of the fishing fleet. There is no doubt that overcapacity is a factor of low profitability. In addition, the fishing boats have a high-age appearance. Overcapacity itself is not the biggest problem, but it will be a major challenge if the fishing fleet has to fish more than the quota in order to achieve profitable operation. We have not yet concluded on these questions, but there is no doubt that this government, unlike the previous government, will present a matter for the Storing during the winter, where one can find good solutions for a deferred nourishment in a good and democratic way. The representative Solberg started his post by saying that there was a great deal of trouble along the coast. Yeah, there's nothing new. It's always been. I have yet to experience that some government has made complete peace around the coast of Norway. It's as well-known as different opposites of interest. We have to live with that. But at least it should not prevent us from achieving a goal that the industry should be a profitable industry in which we get living coastal communities that are bright and where optimism flourishes. Finally, I want to point to a paradox. First we feel that the representative Solberg criticises the Government for the proposal to introduce a NOx tax. In fact, when the Minister of Fisheries goes up to Stortinget's chair and does something to ensure that a person now has found good solutions that the industry can live with and can accept, we feel that Solberg's representative criticises it too. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-14.ana.ud908e572	The Council of State began its contribution by saying that Norwegian fisheries and aquaculture are doing very well. With salmon prices of 40 kr per. kg and increasing production of farmed salmon and farmed cod is not surprising that Norwegian fishing industry is doing well. How much of this government has the credit for, I guess, is another question. I had the impression that there were more international market conditions that contributed to this. But the Council of State said something very important: the fishing resources must be managed as a Community resource. The basis for this, as I see it, is profitability in the fleet – also profitability in competition with the offshore fleet – a sustainable taxation of the resource that the fish are, and the highest possible value creation for the nation for each kilogram of fish taken ashore. It involves more processing. The NOx fee is a terrible fun thing. I'm not quite sure what's going on yet. Three days ago, the government sent out a regulation on the NOx fee to be heard. Today the government has turned around – I thought, until the representative Kvalvik from SV said she was very much for the NOx fee. How SV votes in this case will not be good to say. But I'm glad that the Government, the Christian People's Party and the Right have now turned around. The Progress Party has already proposed the introduction of NOx funds in May. We were all alone about this during the voting in Stortinget. Substantial levels of uncertainty and industrial unrest have been spread due to poor craftsmanship. I am pleased that the Progress Party is now receiving a unanimous increase in its handling of this matter. At the same time, there is a paradox when the government adds a charging system that will reward cars that emit much more NOx, while punishing boats that emit NOx. I expect there's a logic in this, but I haven't managed to clean it up. So there's a reason to point out, when the government talks about 100 pst. financing NOx reduction measures in the fleet, the EU has such a system – they allow up to 30 pst. Action funding, while the Government talks about between 75 pst. and 100 pst. for the fishing fleet. It may be possible that the EU has not allowed it so far. But on the other hand, if the state council does as she says, and introduces a fund, the ESA rules won't affect this. Well, we hope that the NOx tax has been abolished, but it is quite clear that if it had been introduced it would not have contributed to increased profitability, nor would it have contributed to a higher degree of processing in the case of Norwegian fish. The district quota system was my colleague, Korsberg, inside. There's one thing that's probably also about it, and that's that it won't lead to more processing, and it won't lead to more profitability either. It will lead to the transfer of resources from today's money-making industries to companies that lose money, without any guarantee that this situation will change. It is certain that the remains of the fishing industry in Trøndelag, in Møre and Romsdal and on the Helgeland coast will be severely affected if the government completes its ambition of 15 p.m. regional quota. Let's hope this doesn't happen. Then I have to be allowed to comment on something else that was in the media yesterday. The representative from SV, Kvalvik – who moderated quite strongly today – was out and said that the trawls must be phased over a decade. This I call scary chess romance. I don't imagine that the coastal fishing fleet travels to Greenland with its jacks to fish shrimps and pelagic fish. I hope this was an SV error, and that it is not representative of the Government's fisheries policy. I will briefly conclude by saying that I do not feel that the policy of the Government leads, leads to more light in the houses. It, on the other hand, allows the government to determine where there will be light in the houses and where it will not be. It's a red tape of Norwegian fisheries that I don't think we're worth it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-14.ana.ud908e617	Initially, there is reason to encourage the representatives of the Workers' Party and the State Council to agree on whether to attack the Right in order to be in favour of or to oppose the Net Pay Scheme. But a much better option is to listen when we in the Right are explaining our position on that matter. What is quite significant is that the fisheries policy that the Government is currently pursuing, the fisheries policy that the Minister for Fisheries is pursuing, is based on a reality based on the views of the fractions of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre and some state politicians, but not on what is the position of the fishing industry, its views and wishes for a sustainable and profitable fishing industry. The previous Minister for Fisheries was known because he traveled the coast and listened to those who had their boots on and who had views on what adjustments were needed to create a more profitable and sustainable fishing industry. Then he went out into the world and suffered from Norwegian fish and Norwegian fish exports. Unfortunately, there are now completely different perspectives governing the fisheries policy. The red-green fisheries policy is in the process of creating an unprofitable fishing industry, dependent on subsidies and dependent on state governance. It is a fisheries policy that not only violates what the fishing industry itself wants, it is even a fisheries policy that violates what has been a long tradition in Coast Norway, namely that one is willing to convert, wants profitability, wants to manage itself to a great extent without the great interference of society, because one knows that if one is given the opportunity to exploit the resources that one has, one will manage to create profitability in the industry, and not least to create settlements along the coast. Or, as Reidar Nilsen, head of the Norwegian Fisheries Team, said to Nordlys on 8 November 2006: ‘All structural arrangements that were in progress have been stopped. Not a single measure has been taken to enable the industry to generate profitability for its own machinery. Many assess whether it is worth continuing in this industry.’ This is quite descriptive of how the industry itself views this fisheries policy. To take an example from my area, Husøy fishing port in Karmøy, which during this fall received a triple message from the Government: First came the proposal for a NOx tax, which will make it profitable for many of the trawls in that area rather to choose to land the fish in Denmark. The same applies to the fishing port in Egersund. The question is whether the models on which the Government now has a seminar will better address that issue. Husøy is also a fishing port that has taken the environmental challenges seriously and uses local opportunities to use gas as an energy source. As a result, they receive an extra notification when the Government introduces a CO2 tax on the use of gas on land. They have done what everyone has called for, which the Stortinget has repeatedly called for, namely to use Norwegian gas in industrial development on land, and so they meet a government that introduces a CO2 tax on this use. The third report they experienced when the government suddenly and unexpectedly gave a new pelagic trawler concession to a group in the industry that has itself undergone significant conversions, a free new trawler concession that weakens the profitability of the existing concessions in this industry. The industry in this area reacted with shock and disbelief that the Government can suddenly give a new jet concession at night that weakens the profitability and catch value of this group of trawlers to a value of 15 million. kr of the year, i.e. between 400000 and 500000 kr per. boat, in that part of the industry that may have taken the largest structural changes. Now it is time for the Minister of Fisheries to start listening to those who have their boots on, those who are concerned about creating a profitable industry that is self-sustaining and that is part of international development.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-14.ana.ud908e650	This is a very important debate. It does not only apply in this area, but it is also an approach to policies that have parallels to very many other areas. This issue, as we see it, is a good and important sign that the new government has a different approach to industrial policy. This is the level of government, or the level of public governance of major natural resources. Who is going to serve on the management of this withdrawal, and in what way is this going to happen? When some representatives today draw a black image of the Norwegian fishing industry, we do not share that view in the Centre Party. This is an industry with enormous value creation. And so it will continue globally, where the resource situation becomes increasingly needed. If you have local value creation and local employment along the coast, and based on the principle that no one owns these eternal natural resources, the policy Erna Solberg foreshadows is bad news. On the other hand, if one has the most effective extraction of these natural resources, it is likely that the image will be somewhat different. The fact that the money may then end up somewhere else than where the resources are becomes less important in such a perspective. I'm going to add that even in the Center Party there is a stir that there is a need for a structural change. But it has to be done within the framework of what communities along the coast can bear, and to the extent that society is otherwise. The same approach, I believe, is found in many other industries — agriculture, the powerful industry and the ownership of hydropower, just to name a few. In Norway, we have many constraints on the market and the free flow of capital to achieve the goals that society as a whole will benefit from. This is a policy the Center Party wants to continue. With regard to the allegations of lack of legitimacy, it is our view that it is not the last 20 years of fisheries policy that lack legitimacy. What lacks legitimacy is the system put in place by the previous government, with eternal quotas. There was a process without anchor in Stortinget, and there is a clear breach of one of the main principles of Norwegian natural resource management, namely that these resources belong to the community and the people. With regard to the objectives of a new fisheries policy, the Stortinget will have the opportunity to discuss them on a broad basis during the winter. Our aim is that this time we should be able to anchor the fisheries policy broadly, in contrast to the work done by the previous government in this area. For the centre party, it will be important to use marine and coastal resources as a basis for work and income for as many people as possible, and as close as possible to where resources arise. One should be able to live by nature near where the resources are. We're going to focus on the interests of the coastal fishing fleet, because we think it is crucially important and a support bar in very many communities along the coast. In the case of district allowances, the Centre Party wishes to further develop a widespread right to fish resources. That means that the regional quotas are important. It is possible that the device on them is not optimal today. In that case, there are things that we'll have the opportunity to come back to and look at later. In the case of universal service obligations, there is a tightening at this point and this is most necessary. Both coastal and sea fishing fleets have a social responsibility for settlement and coastal value creation, and this responsibility includes, inter alia,: ensuring that the fishing industry has secure access to raw material throughout the year. With regard to the NOx fee, I think it is surprising that we get criticism for having listened, especially after we have already notified that we intend to listen. For its own part, the Centre Party is very pleased with the solutions and sketches for solutions that the Council of State is now presenting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-14.ana.ud908e672	Interpellant Solberg is trying to force us all to claim that there has been the same fisheries policy in this country for the last 20 years. We who are connected to and familiar with the coast know at least that that's not right. Something new happened during the Bondevik II government, where Røjres Svein Ludvigsen was the Minister for Fisheries. The new one was the introduction of a type of structural quota system that opened up the collection of quotas on individual vessels, which was new to the coastal fleet. So far, the capacity of this fleet would have been regulated substantially by public certification schemes and access restrictions. The permanent quota structure, as practised under Bondevik II, led to private capital financing of the capacities, which in turn led to increased ship and quota turnover, increased economic pressure in the industry and increased concentration of fishing rights. That's what's behind the important discussion we've had for a while now about the privatisation of fish resources. It was this that formed the basis of the fisheries policy platform on which the three red-green parties were elected, and which had as their starting point the Storting's own decision, which states that the country's rich fishing resources are our common property. The concept of ‘profitability’ is a mantra with important material content. It is important for all industries that they operate according to business-economic principles. But we also have a tradition here in this country to think that business-economic considerations can be combined in terms of key societal goals. These include: the basis of the policy we pursue in relation to our petroleum activities. In the fisheries sector, social objectives include: related to the sustainable management of resources, to coastal settlements, to the interests of the indigenous population, to the fair distribution and preservation of a coastal landscape and a coastal culture that is far back in history. In short, it is about the legitimacy in which this industry must also have its foundations, and which must be widely thought about in broad terms in the people. The interpellant speaks of the fact that the previous government created profitability in the fishing fleet, but it's a truth with significant modifications. This may be true for those who currently have significant quantities within one or more species of fish. But otherwise, it's the actors who have got allowances, and then sold themselves out of the industry, who have done the best. Many who are currently in the fishing industry have a significant debt to bear because the purchase and sale of a limited resource is inexorably price driven. In fact, while the 1998 fishing fleet debt was at the same level as the earnings, the same debt increased to twice that in 2004, while earnings were at about the same level. It must be clear that a indebted fleet is vulnerable to the variables that naturally fluctuate in fisheries: resource availability, fuel price and interest level — to name a few. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government of Stoltenberg has laid down some principles such as: forms the basis for the mandate of the government-appointed sample which has assessed the structural instruments in the fishing fleet. The selection has been based on three main considerations: Fishing resources shall be a common property. We want a fleet to contribute to activity along the coast, and we want a modern, varied and profitable fishing fleet. The structural committee's investigation and recommendation were presented by Fisheries Minister Helga Pedersen on 19 August this year, on the Husøyddagen on my home island, Senja. Household days have become one of the country's most important fisheries policy arenas, with politicians, organisational staff, fishermen and other interested groups at one level. Many took part in the debate on the structural communication, and there were even more people who particularly noticed the words of one of the most famous and experienced fishermen in the coast – other brother of the former Svein – Kåre Ludvigsen from Sommarøy. You must reverse this development now, Helga, he said, to the Minister for Fisheries, "When we turn light into a house in Troms, we turn off 25 lights in Finnmark." Kåre Ludvigsen expressed with this statement a vision that more and more people share along the coast. We must have a fisheries policy that respects both the business economic interests of the industry and the social objectives that are linked to important values on which we want to build the coast, the country, and not least the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-14.ana.ud908e693	If it was true, the Tove Karoline Knutsen initiated his speech by saying that it was the previous government that moved away, I have to ask a specific question: what is the reason why her party colleague Svein Gielsheth feels the need to say about the structural changes that it is difficult for him to think anything other than that party has been in the last 15 years – i.e. internally in the Workers' Party, you do not share the Tove Karoline Knutsen's own description of how the changes have taken place? This debate has shown one thing: Those who are most satisfied with the Government’s fisheries policy are SV. This may well indicate that both the Workers' Party and the Center's party have been forced significantly to the left in relation to what they have done in the past. For the Central Party, it is clearly a problem that one of their last fisheries ministers is now one of the biggest critics of the Government’s fisheries policy, where the government itself believes that there has been a significant change. Let me then go point-to-point through some of the questions that have been raised. I have not criticised the fact that a retreat is being made. I think that's fine. What I have criticised is that obviously a very bad craft has been done in advance. The government shouldn't have done that. Maybe you should be in dialogue. And then we'll see if it's right as it's said from this pulpit, that the industry is satisfied. So far, the industry has not expressed anything related to the sketches that have been drawn up from the pulpit today, linked to the NOx. In any case, it's positive that you do the right thing when it gets better, but it's not certain that you would have had to go through all that discussion if you had a better dialogue in advance. So for net pay. Here the Workers' Party must decide whether to assert, as Helga Pedersen did, that the previous government and the Right was in favour, and that there was broad agreement on these questions, or, as Gullvåg, disputing us that we would remove everything. The truth is that we want a different type of net pay system, and we want more freedom to be able to hire more foreigners in shipping, which means that the pressure against the fishing industry would be less. In the case of delivery obligations, we agree that there should be delivery obligations. But the proposal that has been made on 100 p.m. supply, with intensification also on the processing side, will contribute to lower profitability and significant political governance, and it will contribute to more local communities becoming more vulnerable. It's a dilemma with district quotas that you just move from one community to another. That means that there'll always be someone for, but there's a lot of people who want to oppose it, because it just helps you move on quotas and not increase them. So for structural freezes. It said Svein Glüsth all about it in his description of this. Finally, to the representative of Gullvåg, it is possible that it is only Right who believes this, but I record that then also the LO must be included among those who provide Right Support, and that almost all the fishing organisations and not least a previously relatively well-known working party person who is now leading the Fiskerlag must be among the loud-shaking scream throats that Gullvåg believes are getting too much attention in the fisheries debate. But it is those who have problems close by, who now give the most clear indication that they are critical of the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-14.ana.ud908e713	The government’s fisheries policy must ensure activity across the coast and we must ensure activity in the most fisheries-dependent communities. We shall do that through universal service, through district quotas, through the marine value creation programme, through an active effort to secure our products of market access, through fresh fishing effort and through research, to mention something. It would have been very interesting to see what the coast would have looked like if it were the Progress Party's policy to be implemented. I don't think you have to be a fortune-teller to say that many of the places along the coast would have been erased from the map – something that the representative Korsberg went a long way in saying in his post. If one thing is the nature of the fishing industry on which the export industry depends, it is a sound economic policy. I look forward to the Progress Party presenting its alternative budget. It's clear that more money for the Coast Guard alone sounds provocative, but it doesn't help much if you at the same time sweep billions into the economy, thus ruining the industry's competitiveness. The representative of Korsberg also addressed the problem of overfishing. It's a problem that the government is facing in several areas, and where we're very active. Among other things, the Government has proposed changes to Norwegian legislation to ensure that we have the power to refuse access to Norwegian ports for the purpose of purchasing services. It will be exciting to see how the law and the orderly party of the Progress Party is dealing with this proposal when it is due to be presented in the Grand Duchy in December. I think it's consistent with most people's sense of justice that the healer is as evil as the thief. But in the Stortinges Question Time on 10 May this year, Øyvind Korsberg stated that you must not take the healing trail. With such an attitude, you will hardly get far in the fight against either cabin invasion or poaching. When introducing changes in the fisheries policy, we must expect a debate. It's nothing new. When the previous Minister of Fisheries traveled along the coast — with or without boots — it was not exactly the cheer he heard when he listened to the coastal population. It was not exactly optimism that marked the coast under the previous government. So when the representative of Solberg claims that many new jobs were created, I ask, where did those jobs go? Only in my county did 1000 industrial jobs disappear in a very short time. The right did not have an answer as to how this was to be met. There was also a proper internal debate in the Right. I just want to remind you that former Tromsø rapporteur, Mr. Erlend Rian, left the party in that phase. The election result in 2005 may have been the final confirmation of what the coastal population actually thought about the fisheries policy that was under way. The coastal population expressed its desire for a new direction in the fisheries policy, and that is what the Government is now seeking to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-14.ana.ud908e726	The interpellant debate is closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-14.ana.ud908e737	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-14.ana.ud908e756	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-14.ana.ud908e839	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
