ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e28	The representative Rolf Terje Klungland, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Sigrid Brattabø Handegard, has taken the seat. The representative of Sonja Irene Sjøli will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e41	On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Inge Wohnning, Martin Engeset and myself, I would like to propose amendments to the legislation on care allowances to ensure equal rights for both parents in the care of early-born and sick children.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e46	The representative of Ketil Solvik-Olsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e49	I am pleased to make proposals on behalf of the representatives Børge Brende, Line Henriette Holten Hemdal, Gunnar Kvassheim and myself on a common Norwegian/Swedish market for green certificates for renewable electricity.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e54	The representative Tord Lien will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e57	I am delighted to make suggestions on behalf of Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Robert Eriksson, Per-Roar Bredvold and myself to include some of the frontier groups in the stock target of the wolf.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e62	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose, because of the high number of questions in the ordinary Question Time, that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 15 until today's map has been processed. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e88	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Kristin HalvorsenState Council Helen Bjørnø State Council Trond Giske The announced government councils are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e107	My question goes to Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen. The Minister of Finance can look forward to a strong growth in tax revenue for 2005. It gives more money to health care, care for the elderly and school. In the election campaign, we were told that tax relief threatened the community and well-being. Now we're sitting with the fasit. In 2005, tax revenues from mainland Norway increased by a total of 7.2 pst. It gives many extra billions to well-being. Now we see that lower taxes on enterprises and employees have contributed to increased tax revenue to the public. While short-term trends, moderate wage-fixing and investment in research and development are also taking place, it is still a reality that, at the same time as taxes were lowered for enterprises and employees, tax revenues increased to the public. And that's a relationship. When you create businesses and jobs, you contribute to growth and to value creation. Then the pie gets bigger, and there's more to distribute. It is not that one has to choose between tax relief and community, because the tax relief actually gives more to the community, more to well-being. My question is whether the Minister of Finance will now take the time to assess the effects of the fiscal policy pursued by the previous government. Will the Minister of Finance be willing to remove the desire of the new government to increase taxes, when it is seen that lower taxes have given more tax revenue and greater opportunities to strengthen the well-being of our society?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e116	It's true, as the representative Sanner says, that the taxes for mainland Norway have increased by 7.2 pst. from 2004 to 2005. But it's too fast and easy to say that this means that we've got a phase that right-wing policy is what's objectively right, and that we can now put two lines under that answer. This case has to be seen in the context of a sharp decrease in tax revenue in 2003 and 2004. When there is growth in the economy, there will, of course, also be an increase in the tax intake in 2005. As far as I remember, there was also a bourgeois, right-dominated government in 2003 and 2004 – and a significant element of tax relief in the economy then. So it's too simple a conclusion that Sanner draws. It is not that the Government has any plans to change the tax regime. As the representative Sanner is well-known, we significantly changed the tax arrangements of the Bondevik government. Instead of increasing the tax burden, we increased the tax by approx. €3 billion – a very clear, improved distribution profile compared to what the Bondevik government had proposed. What we've said to the voters is that we're going back at the 2004 level. We are now working on a budget for 2007, where the tax snipers can stay below a couple of billion dollars. The reason we want such a course is that it is extremely important for business growth to have an efficient public sector and an education system that we know can also contribute to business. For some of the business world is going to have pretty big problems if the economic cycle keeps up at this level, it's getting skilled labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e123	This is not, of course, a policy that only the Right-Centre government in Norway has pursued. It is also a policy that social-democratic countries in Europe – and want to lead. Yes, even former Chancellor Schröder in Germany, at the end of his career, concluded that it was right to lower taxes so that the economy — more jobs and thus growth — could be speeded up, thus strengthening the well-being of society. The same is true in the United Kingdom, where Tony Blair is concerned about stimulating the growth of the economy, because there is a link between value creation and well-being. I record that the Minister of Finance says that growth contributes to increased tax revenue, but the question is, what is creating the growth of our society? Is it true that the Minister of Finance believes that policy does not play a role? In that case, it would be most perceptive by a socialist. I believe that the policy pursued by the previous government led to growth and thus to the possibility of strengthening well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e130	I am very pleased that the representative Sanner now believes, and does not know, what has created this increased tax intake for 2005. Then we begin to approach what is the truth. It's not that it's possible to put two lines below the answer, that it's right-wing policy that's the answer. The closer I look at how the Nordic countries manage in international competition – that we have increased productivity, and business has a very favourable development – the more proud I am of the Nordic welfare model, where we fund the important welfare tasks together, and where everyone has access to education and care, no matter how much money you make. It is also a good business policy. This government has set itself the goal of breaking the recipe that says that there are tax laws that are alpha and omega for business. On the contrary: it is a well-functioning public sector and well-qualified labour market needs to be developed. We have reason to be proud of a Nordic welfare model with a high degree of tax finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e140	There will be four follow-up questions – first Gjermund Hageseter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e143	Norway is a small country with a high wage level. We also have high transport costs because we're a piece from the central markets. It would be naive to think that over time we can keep up a tax and tax level that is more separate than our competitors. We also see that large Norwegian companies establish more jobs abroad than in Norway. A tax increase, as announced by the Government and the Minister of Finance, will also accelerate these developments. My question: Is the Minister of Finance concerned about flagging out and about many Norwegian companies expanding more abroad than in Norway? If the Minister of Finance is concerned about these developments, what will the Minister of Finance do to limit or reverse this trend?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e150	If we look at the world economy and the location of small Norway in this, we need to be aware that no matter what we have to do in Norway, we will never be able to compete with China for the lowest price possible for the production of goods. Nor will we be able to compete with India to have the lowest price possible for the production of services. And we're not going to be able to compete with tax havens around the world to pay the minimum tax. So we have to bet on something else. What we're really going to be proud of is that we've done it. Despite the fact that we might be late because we have huge oil and gas revenues, we have managed to achieve productivity development, and we have managed to get to research and development that makes us claim ourselves very well. In fact, Norway is one of the countries that makes the most of the economic cycle in the world economy today. That's what we have to focus on first and foremost. The fact that many companies move abroad is not because they find so much better skills there, but it is of course because some businesses in Norway are still competing at price, i.e. the lowest price possible for labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e158	Ingredient S. Sørfonn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e161	It is gratifying that tax revenue is growing, as it bears witness to business optimism. It means safe jobs, growth and well-being, and it will be. Taxes on dividends were introduced in the tax reform. This was a little reluctantly accepted by business, but the clear premise was that the property tax should be reduced. Currently it is not followed up. From the business side, it feels that it – we can call it – the social contract on which the tax reform was built is not fulfilled. To correct this, it is an alternative to remove the property tax on so-called working capital in enterprises. This is not just an option, but it is actually a good option. In order to ensure that, in future too, we can maintain the optimism of business, with safe jobs, growth and development, is my question: Will the Minister of Finance look closer to removing taxes on wealth on working capital?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e168	This is a proposal that has been assessed in many contexts. The reason why the former and the present government have counter-conceptions against it is that it offers very great opportunities to place some capital as working people and something that is not working – that is, great opportunities for circumvention. It's not a proposal I'm basically in favour of. But I want to kill some myths about the tax level of business. It is true that Norway has a wealth tax that many other countries do not have, but it is also true that if we see property taxes and property taxes in the context — and many other countries have sky-high property taxes — then the sum of these taxes shows that Norway is at a low level in relation to the taxation of capital. Nor is it that our tax on dividends is particularly high. And what a representative of the Christian People's Party will probably be concerned about, as the SV and the Government are concerned about, is that wealth in Norway is very divided. Those who really have the large wealth and the large investment income, they must also contribute to the community. That's why it's important to have a property tax that's progressive, so that the really rich pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e175	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e178	The election campaign of the Minister of Finance and her partner was about either more tax relief or more community. There were no limits to what sharp rhetoric Jens Stoltenberg used when I argued that the government of Bondevik's targeted tax policy would in the long run lead to increased tax revenue even if we reduced taxes. ‘Tax settlement with voodoo-Lars’ across a whole page of the VG was Stoltenberg’s attack, and he called it ‘voodoo economy’. Now we know the fasit. I was right. Stoltenberg was wrong. Then I have to express my concern: I fear that with increased capital taxes, increased wealth taxes and upper tax incentives combined with warnings about million fines in acquisition laws and the use of state ownership against private shareholders, we can have tax cuts in the future. Can the Minister of Finance assure us that her tax consolidation policy will continue to increase tax access, as under the previous government?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e189	I'm surprised that the representative Sponheim's depiction of facts, or that he's going a statistic so far, because he's usually quite honest when he refers to these studies. It is not possible to say that the increased tax intake from 2004 to 2005 — which was based on a decrease in both 2003 and 2004 — is a huge evidence that the so-called dynamic tax policy is functioning. Had we had a previous tax regime, the truth might as well have been that taxes had increased significantly more. Then I have to say that it's only in Stortinget and when I discuss with the opposition, that I see this deplication and the black paint of how bad things are in Norwegian business. If you stick to the facts about how it works, or for example. Takes a little walk down the stock exchange, where I was a few days ago – and it was ‘all hour high’ – you will see that the atmosphere is quite different. But if you want to drop a little bit here, I'm sorry, I can't take away any of that joy. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e196	Svein Fleet – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e199	Governments themselves have provided good evidence that lower taxes on business generate higher tax revenues. She says that tax revenue fell in 2002 and 2003. Yes, it was because there were significant tax increases in 2000! And this has a lag, just as we now get increased tax revenue – so that discussion she's actually done quite well today. That's excellent. What's pretty funny is that the Council of State thinks it doesn't mean anything what kind of business conditions nationally have when building well-being. We heard the same thing yesterday from the Council of State in a debate on active industrial policy here in Stortinget. She occupies a backward position in relation to this, and I have a perception that it is the international economic cycle that will govern. It is now reinforced by her visit to the stock exchange. [[The President clubs.]] It would be strange whether it is such that a government council from SV should be guided by the international economic cycle and the stock exchange development on Wall Street.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e206	The President must remember that there is a one minute speaking time on follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e209	I can assure the fleet that the last SV does is lean back and let the markets sort out. We are in a very challenging situation, because we do not know exactly what the development of the economy will be like in 2006. We know that we have a much higher oil price than the one that was estimated, but we also know that there might start to be a shortage of labour in some sectors. It is perhaps the most important thing for this government to do in relation to Norwegian business – to ensure that we have a labour market that is such that we are able to connect those who are now unemployed into a business that needs more skilled labour. We must do this in the short term and in the long term. If not, it's what can quickly stop business. We come to know – and we used it half yesterday to debate – to pursue a very active industrial policy because we are concerned with the interaction between the public sector and the private sector that the Nordic welfare model has set up and which has made it possible to say that Norway and the other Nordic countries are successes in the world economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e216	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e220	I would like to address the question to the Minister of Finance. We are constantly hearing from the government and the finance minister talking about a new course in Norway, and you can sometimes slowly ask questions about which course it is going to be. In the media last week we were able to hear about internal work in SV, the Minister of Finance's own party, where we have been working to find the current cut in the state budget. It is even called the Working Party on the Release of Public Resources. Many of the proposals that are being promoted there are proposals that we have made in the past – a number of points have been critical of SV. But then there are some suggestions that may hit some of the weakest in society. In fact, the government has expressed a policy of being concerned about poverty and those who have little in the past. Then it is strange to read about suggestions such as: cutting sick pay and increasing excesses in the health care system. This is internal work in SV, and in itself there is no problem for us. But the challenge is in many ways that when this is an internal work in SV, I would assume that they may have much easier to fit their ideas into the finance minister's office than many of us do. The question therefore arises: what does the Minister of Finance think about following up these recordings? Can she now clarify that these are recordings that you have not intended to do, or become as the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance says, that you go through this as ideas and recordings, and that we want to see the outcome of it in the revised state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e229	I am not going to be happy with the representative, Leirstein, to review proposals for proposals from this sample, which has therefore delivered a report to the SV’s large-scale group. But I can assure you that with regard to the 2007 budget, and as the Minister of Finance, I will be in favour of all proposals, both on the plus side and on the minus side. I just want to nuance this a little bit. It is not the case that a sample in SV has proposed reducing workers’ entitlement to sick pay. It has proposed that employers' obligations be strengthened. In the case of promissory notes, there is a challenge to how the whole market share system works per. today – especially for those with poor finances. We have some experience from the last arrangement, which we inherited from the Bondevik government, namely that part of the physiotherapy services increased by $50 per cent. time. We know that it has meant that quite a number of people who would need physical therapy services, now hesitating to use them. This is not a development that SV and the Government want. It's also very clear in the Soria Moria statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e238	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It can be exciting to see what you're going to do with the excesses of physiotherapy services. What I was a little bit concerned with in my main question, went on this with poverty. We've had a lot of debate about it, and I know that the Council of State has often expressed itself and is very concerned about the fight against poverty. In the daily newspaper yesterday we can read that the Council of State has the following questions: ‘Are you getting rid of poverty?’ And then the answer is: ‘It is almost impossible. But when we set such clear goals, that means we're doing everything we can to get it done." This is a somewhat different tone than the one we've heard from the Council of State before, for example. in the last election campaign. Is it that you feel that you can't stand up for what you actually said in the election campaign about the job you're going to do when it comes to poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e255	No, no, no. In fact, it was already a theme at SV's national meeting if we were to take so hard and say that we want to eliminate poverty. My argument that you should have it as a goal is that if you set such ambitious goals, you can't lean back a few days and think that now it's just going to be like it is. This is an objective that is almost impossible to achieve, for poverty in a country as rich as ours can take new forms. New groups may not be included in the labour market or in the development of income. But if you don't set as ambitious a goal as possible to combat poverty, the vast majority, who don't understand what it might be like not to afford $50 to a physiotherapist, can easily lean back and think that this is not so dangerous anyway. That's why we've rather taken the chance of having a very clear goal. We are absolutely sure that a society that includes everyone, where everyone should have an opportunity to try out, is the best society – not just for those who are poor today, but for the whole community. But it's not an easy goal to achieve, and it requires very clear priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e262	There will be four follow-up questions – first Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e265	The working group that SV has reduced has made an interesting setting. It is an attitude that many of us recognize – the difficult dilemmas and discussions about how we should release money for the most important measures, so that they are targeted and reach those who absolutely need it the most. The interesting thing about this is that the sample was set up in 2004, while Kristin Halvorsen, as a party leader, would not talk about difficult dilemmas where priority had to be given to different public tasks. On the contrary, Kristin Halvorsen's insistent response was every time this theme was taken up, that they would not have all of these tax breaks that we wanted – that's why they had the money. When you have reduced a selection that admits that there will be some difficult dilemmas in the future, I think that Kristin Halvorsen should reconsider the election strategy that you had – where you played a little fake game with the voters by saying that there were no difficult dilemmas – that you should take self-criticism with regard to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e274	I would like to draw attention to the fact that the sample set up in 2004 received one mandate, and it was just to propose cutbacks in public expenditure. I don't know what it's like in the Right, but in the SV it's at least unmistakable that party leaders or parliamentary leaders – leaders at all – dictate a selection that's been given a free mandate as to what kind of conclusions it's going to make. In our case, at least we accept proposals – including those that we do not like. But then it's my responsibility, the government's responsibility and the responsibility of the SV Group once this report has been received, to consider what proposals we can accept, and what proposals we will reject. It's only when this is summed up that you know which proposals we're going to support. There is nothing new for SV to go critically through public expenditure. On the contrary, we think we're going to have a lot of ambitions all the way around. This means that we can not only rely on the lack of tax havens and on growth in the economy – we also have to go very carefully through how public expenditure is composed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e283	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e286	It may have been a bit surprising for me that the Minister of Finance is picking up inspiration and motivation when visiting the stock exchange, but I understand that it has helped – according to the first page of the Newspaper yesterday, the Minister of Finance has had a tough winter. I hope she also finds motivation and inspiration to combat poverty when she is visiting the stock exchange, and that she may share it with her vice-leader. But back to poverty and welfare systems. It is not only the Minister of Finance and the Swedish Ministry of Finance who have been cutting welfare schemes such as sick pay, increased ownership of health services and the reduction of agricultural aid. It has also been the responsibility of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen will go through all the welfare arrangements. How will the Government promote the Storting proposal through all welfare schemes, with a view to cutting them?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e295	It is not the Government’s aim to cut welfare schemes. What the government has as its objective is to present an action plan against poverty and measures to get people to work. This is done in the context of the 2007 budget. Then, of course, we are going through all the welfare systems all the time, and especially in the context of the budget, because we want the welfare systems we have to work as best as possible. But the big dilemma in discussing this is that we need income protection, so that those who don't have room in the labour market don't have to be awake every night and grumble at some bills that might come. They must also have the surplus and the opportunity to sign up for a course and think that at least the next 14 days are completely secure. Finding the relationship between it and schemes that make it pay for each individual to work is the big challenge. Otherwise, I have to say that the area around the stock exchange is perhaps the place in Oslo where the contrasts are greatest, too many of those who wear the most, have a shelter right around the stock exchange's ports.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e304	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e308	When the Minister of Finance does not promote happiness on the stock exchange, it is a great deal of luck to find in SV's release document. I am quite sure that the document, with another source, was in the finance minister's drawer before – I think it has been in the drawer of most finance ministers. One of the proposals – which, of course, concerns me – is the proposal to reduce agricultural aid, as stated in this SV document. Similar liberating struggles have also been organised by SV’s economic policy spokespersons here in Stortinget. It is in stark contrast to what the central government partner believes, for the Minister of Agriculture says that there will no longer be a single use in Norway. This means that the government's offer to spring should not have any more efficiency. It costs billions of dollars in plus. In addition, from the centre party team here in Stortinget there are announced crown supplements and not percentage supplements. We're approaching $1 billion at the plus there as well. Although the Minister of Finance is rhetorical, I would like to have an answer to a question – for the first time in this Questionnaire: How much will SV cut in transfers to succeed in this liberation struggle?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e320	The representative Sponheim asks, and he knows he won't get any answer – but we can do it for a minute. In fact, this sample has presented proposals that it stands for itself entirely. We are going to evaluate the individual proposals when we make the budget. These assessments will not be made until the 2007 budget is presented. I really do not know the answer until the SV’s big group has reviewed the proposals and told me which ones they would like to propose. Lars Sponheim knows very well what the Soria Moria Declaration says about agricultural policy. I'm not going to make any new signals now, and the budget is coming as we know it in October 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e329	Gjermund Hagesetter – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e332	We now have a historically high oil price. That also makes us get extraordinarily high income in the treasury. Every day we get almost NOK 1 billion more in income than we have in expenses. It should be a good starting point and a good basis for making everyday life easier and safer for most people, including those at the bottom of the table. For example: Providing tax relief to those with the lowest wages, by providing tax breaks, which are the best for those with the lowest income, and by cleaning up health services and possessions, we could improve the daily lives of many. Now I see in Finansaviera last week that the Minister of Finance is in favour of tightening up the use of oil money. Instead of using 4 pst. should only use 3 pst. My question is: does the Minister of Finance view these extraordinary incomes as a problem or as a possibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e339	We are among the luckiest in the world, because we enjoy the fact that the oil price is now so high. But we also know that these are uncertain predictions – we can't start that party now. The background for me to talk last week in a discussion on how to deal with the rule of action – and I was focusing on a part that has been very small in the economic debate until now, namely that we are going to use oil money in line with the economic cycle in the Norwegian economy – is that we are in the situation that we have billions of revenue from the oil fund, which could have been used so far if it wasn't because in many areas of Norwegian society there aren't people to do the job, or because of pressure in other ways. We see pressure trends. All of which, for example: are looking to buy their first dwelling, notes how hugely high housing prices are, and how this can affect the economy. We are therefore going to present a balanced budget. But fortunately, when the oil price is high, the 4 pst is also higher.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e346	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e349	Yesterday, the so-called Genocide Committee presented the state-to-church relationship setting. I assume that it is not entirely unexpected for Minister of Culture and Church Giske to have a question about it today. A large majority in State – the Church Committee is in favour of a moderate change in the relationship between state and church. State Council Giske has underlined that his main goal is to ensure a still wide, open and inclusive church. Here's the Christian People's Party all the way along with the Council of State. But then I have also noticed that on the question of a change in the relationship church-state, Giske has now said that he will be one of the last to take his stand – a little ‘against normal’ to the Council of State Guess to be. We're used to him being out of position pretty fast, but I'm sure that's wise now. For the Christian People's Party, it is particularly important to stress that the Church must have arrangements that enable it to be a true religion. During the press conference in the government quarter yesterday in connection with the presentation of the investigation, the Council of State spoke about the state's responsibility for religious practice and ensuring real opportunities for religious practice. What he said was fine in itself, but it may well be so important to challenge the Council of State on what he didn't say about, the Church as a religious community. A religious community can be defined as a community in which people share the faith of God. The Church is something more than a state budget among many, it is something other than the Post and the Norwegian State Railways. I think this is a question that too many will be very important in view of the further process. My question is: how does the Council of State view this with the Church as a religious community, and what emphasis will he place on this in the drafting of the consultation document that will soon be sent out?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e362	It is clear that the Church is a religious community, and ever since the church system was introduced after the Reformation in 1537, there has been a division of labour between the State and the Church, where the Church, even in the time of the One-Engdom King, had quite a degree of autonomy – or selfishness – in the matters of faith, the questions of doctrine that have always been discussed. It's been a development. In recent years, we have also been given a greater right to the appointment of priests, etc. There has been a gradual change in this system. And I think alternating governments have respected that learning questions, for example. in relation to homosexuality and to equality and that kind of thing is treated by bodies within the Church, but of course we, as social politicians, as engaged citizens, also have the full right to participate in those discussions. Now, when we're going to discuss if we're going to do maybe the biggest reform in the Church in these 470 years, it's going to be absolutely central to the Government that we're keeping an open, inclusive people's church. It's about how the ordinary church members who don't necessarily share the great activity of church councils and religious services every Sunday should feel at home in this church. These include: on the question of who should appoint bishops in such a reformed church, and how this should be anchored in a democracy within the Church. These issues are now being addressed to a wide-ranging consultation. Between 2000 and 3000 hearing bodies will be asked to express their views. The government has not concluded in this case, the Labour Party has not concluded in this case, and I have not concluded either. We will do this in the light of the hearing opinions we receive, and also – I would say – in close dialogue with the opposition. This is a matter that is not suitable for sharp party conflicts, but where we should get a broad majority that can end up as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e371	I thank the Council of State for the answer and am pleased that he states that the Church should be a religious community – without any special deepening. I'm not going to pursue it now. I assume that we will have many opportunities to discuss this, and of course we will also await the consultation process. But I want to follow up on this with the further process there. The council also said yesterday that the red-green government is going to cooperate with the other parties in the Stortinget in order to achieve the greatest possible cross-political consensus on the solution to be chosen, as he said. I can understand that the Council of State feels the need to cooperate widely, because in the government itself, there is a lot to be done on this issue. What I want to say is that the Christian People's Party wants to contribute to a broad cooperation to ensure a good and robust solution for the Church in the future. I have a few questions that follow up to the Council of State. I would like to ask if he can confirm here that he is interested in such broad cooperation in Stortinget. Furthermore, I would like to ask how he assesses the possibilities for doing this, and how he sees that this can be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e380	First of all, it's not just a strong will to achieve broad cooperation, it's actually absolutely necessary. If constitutional changes are required to reform the Church, we will have to have a two-thirds majority in this Chamber. Then it goes without saying that the government parties and the opposition have to come together. But I also believe that for most people – not only for those who, for reasons of principle, believe that it is wrong for a state to profess a religion in its constitution, but also for those who are concerned that we should have a people's church in which people feel at home, and are concerned that changes can lead to a more narrow church – it is important that we together find lasting, solid arrangements. And I imagine that, among other things. the government, before we present a case to the Stortinget, probes the terrain, has a close dialogue with the opposition parties and seeks to find solutions in the proposal that we are presenting, which we know is also anchored in the opposition parties. I think that's an advantage for the Church, it's an advantage for the future of freedom of religion in Norway, and it shows that the political system takes such questions very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e387	There will be four follow-up questions – first Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e391	To the end, I would say that we have a few months' experience of what kind of cooperation the government is adding up with the opposition in Stortinget. I believe the chosen form so far is not very suitable in this matter at least, and I hope the Government and the Council will take it with them. The work of the Feds Committee has been going on for a long time, even long before the Soria Moria Declaration was approved by the government parties, so this is a debate with which the parties have been known for a long time. And now what has happened in many other cases is that the government parties go out into the media and give a number of different signals about what they really think about this question. The Council of State itself has said that he should be among the last to decide on this. But one must expect a fundamental clarification from the Government in relation to whether one wants a divorce or not. It is clear that there are many different ways of implementing a distinction, and that will be the subject of the debate that the Council of State has addressed. However, one must be able to expect a consistent attitude from the Government towards the principle of whether or not a distinction is sought. That's why I want to ask this question to the Council of State: Is it so that the Government has already rejected a distinction, or are you going to accept and go in for a principle distinction?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e403	The government has not rejected a distinction, but we have not concluded that we want a distinction. I think it might be a little disrespectful of so-called people that you demand that the government, before you have sent the matter to the hearing, before 2 000 to 3 000 hearings have been given their opinion, come to a bastant conclusion, whether you should divorce or not. We want to listen to those who will be allowed to discuss this widely throughout Norway, and then conclude at the end of that process, not at the beginning. It's listening to people most. I also want to say that it is quite obvious that here are the different opinions, not only between the three government parties and within the three government parties, but also between the different opposition parties and within the opposition parties. This is a case that intersects across the parties, and therefore it is extra challenging to find a solution. SV has always been skeptical to the State Church, the Center Party is a pretty strong supporter of it. The Labour Party has said at its national meeting that we have been to the state church so far, but that we are going to take the debate now, with an open mind, and then we will conclude afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e412	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e415	In our neighbouring country, Sweden, the Riksdagen was able to adopt a unanimous decision seven years ago on changed relations between the state and the church. I think it is wise for the Council of State that he has the ambition to seek the most comprehensive political solution possible – including in Norway. I can see no reason why the Norwegian political system should be more incapacitated than the Swedish in terms of bringing together solutions to a question like this. But I'm a little surprised that the Council of State keeps coming back to the formula 'open, inclusive people's church'. It's in itself an excellent formula, but state councils seem to have the idea that the only thing that can ensure an open and inclusive people's church is political governance. Then I have to ask: Give that virtually all the tasks that the Constitution imposes on His Majesty the King have already been delegated far too far to the Church Meeting and other church bodies – has the Council of State registered that it has caused the Norwegian Church to become narrower and narrower? My assessment is that what has happened is the very opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e424	The key issue in relation to a division of tasks between Church Councils and other bodies in the Church today is the appointment of bishops. Some say that it must be left to the Church itself. The Council of Churches is a member of the State Church members of the Government. It's also a church organ, so it's the church members who make those appointments. The government is based on a majority in Stortinget out of 70 pst. of the Norwegian people who have participated in elections. The church meeting has been concluded by the council of congregations or by the council of bishops based on 3 p.m. participation in the voting of the council. I believe that if one is to move such an important decision as the appointment of bishops to bodies in the Church other than the Council of Churches, we must have a completely different democratic anchoring of the bodies that are to make those appointments – otherwise we risk that this could be the victim of subtle, well-organized forces, and that the ordinary member of the church loses its membership in its church.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e431	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e434	The Christian People's Party wants a broad church in Norway, i.e. a church with close links between people and church, a church with room for all, regardless of opinions and position, whether you want an active or passive relationship with the Church. The Christian People's Party will work for a broad majority and a robust system. In his reply to the representative Lånker, the Council of State said that he wants such a majority, both because it is necessary in this Chamber, and because he wants a majority of a people's church for the most people. My question is, how is he going to have dialogue, not just in Stortinget, but with most people? And: What is he thinking about the dialogue with the Church on this important question?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e443	One of the steps we are going to take at the hearing is that instead of sending investigations only to the Council of Bishops or to the Council of Churches, we are going to send it to all the councils throughout Norway. We're going to send it to other religious and life-seeking communities, we're going to send it to all the municipalities in Norway – which are the owners of church buildings and have an important role to play – so that we get the debate out where people are, not just at the top and the management of different organisations and institutions. We will take an active part in a public debate about this. We hope that the opposition will do that too, because these are so important questions and mean so much to so many people in Norway that we need both to spend time and to go as far as possible. I am pleased with the signals now coming from the opposition that a broad solution is being sought. The selection was also composed of people from different parties, so that already there you have started the work you need to get a common, broad solution. I fully agree with the objective of a broad people's church, to which the representative here refers. But it can't just be a heading, it has to be a real content, and that's what we have to try to find.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e454	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e457	I am pleased with the state council's confirmation that he views the Church as a religious community, and that he thus does not subscribe to the belief that the Norwegian Church of State is almost the Norwegian welfare state's offer to people most through important life rites. I am pleased with this fundamental clarification. I would also assume that the Council of State has clear thoughts about what should justify in our time that a religious society must have a secular supremacy, rather than justify in our time that in a country that is also multicultural – but also before that time – it is such that the state should be bound by a confederation. I think it's going to be hard to find a rationale for that. The Council of State represents a party which is a strong adherent to international conventions, UN conventions. I'll leave this. But I have one question: I guess the Council of State can share my opinion, that a question that is also about minority protection and equal treatment of all religious and life-view societies is not suitable for a referendum?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e466	The government has not taken a decision on the issue of referendum. I myself have expressed scepticism, because referendums often seem more divisive than gatherings, and also because it is difficult to find an exact referendum theme, because the different elements of a reform – the form of funding, the form of governance, the legal basis, etc. – may be combined in different ways. Then it might be easier in a room with 169 representatives who can talk directly, to find compromises, than to do it through a referendum. But we haven't taken a decision on it yet. I share the representative's views on religious communities, but I want to underline one thing: there are no A members and B members in the Norwegian Church. Whether you're an active or passive member, whether you're using the Church daily, every week, or just on the big occasions of life, you're an equal member. It must also be safeguarded in the future. It is also true that the Norwegian Church has a special position in Norway, not because it is stated in the Constitution, but because 85 pst. of the Norwegian people have joined it. It is to be treated in the same way as other religious communities, but it will have a special role in Norwegian society, precisely because of its size.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e474	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e477	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment. The government has announced that it will pursue a more offensive environmental policy. We will go from word to word – this has become one of the most used clichés of the Minister for the Environment. So far, it's been hard to figure out what that means. The government has promised a new grip on climate policy. So far we haven't been told which. The government has promised that it will use the charging policy to promote the environment. We haven't been able to figure out how. We must now be able to expect that the airy promises of the Minister for the Environment become concrete policies – and the Council of State has an opportunity to contribute to this today. The Soria Moria Declaration states that ‘significant parts of Norway’s climate commitments under the Kyoto Agreement’ are to be carried out by national measures. The Left Party and the Left Party have agreed that over 50 pst. shall be taken nationally. Is it the Government's ambition that "significant parts" means over 50 pst. ? At the National Meeting of Nature and Youth, the Minister for the Environment said that the goal of renewable energy production should be increased. But instead of acting and contributing to the increase in clean energy production, the Government creates uncertainty for the actors currently active in this area. Instead of creating a green certificate market, the Government creates uncertainty as to whether or not it will become such a market and what it will include in the case. Does the Council of State understand that this has created uncertainty in those who are now working to increase the production of clean energy – that the Government in action is saying something quite different from what it has as its objective?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e490	Thank you for the slightly general introduction, which gives me the opportunity to confirm that the Government will do everything it can to return to Norway as an environmental nation. There are three main areas in particular that challenge us. One is, as the representative said, the climate. We are working on sectoral climate plans, sectoral climate targets. That will soon be put into practice. The size will thus have clearer plans, and know what we are doing in the sectoral climate objectives. The climate is one of the major challenges, both nationally and internationally. We've said that we're going to take a significant part, but I still don't want to make it concrete and say if it's more than 50 pst. – what we're going to do is a significant part. The cleaning plant that we are planning on at Kårstø is one of these measures that will have major consequences for the climate as well. The other area is pollutants. There we are working on concrete investigations and plans to reduce environmental pollution in Norway. This also applies at an international level; we are in the process of both EU cooperation and the UN International Forum. The last area is biodiversity, which is the third large area that we're dealing with. Then the representative has mentioned green certificate. We have said that we want to introduce a green certification market, but that there are some issues that need to be investigated in more detail. The government will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e503	This was a good illustration of what was my main point. While one says one should go from word to action, there are now plans instead of action, and new investigations instead of action. This means that instead of initiating a new approach to reducing climate emissions, the answer is that the new climate emissions coming from Kårstø must at least be cleaned. But offensive national measures are needed to reduce today’s emissions. It does not help the Minister for the Environment to clarify what is the Government’s policy. What is obvious is that SV does not reach this area either. What is the clear ambition of our parties, that Norway should commit itself so much that the job is done nationally, has now become completely unclear. Here we are not given any explanation as to whether the Government will promote a scheme that can contribute to new energy production through the certification system. New investigations are to be carried out, and it is likely to send out shock waves, both in District Norway and in Energy and Environment Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e508	I assure the representative that we must go from word to action. We have quite a lot to say about environmental policy in Norway, because there has been a situation in recent years that has left Norway hanging. I assure you that we are doing well on actions related to the sectoral action plans on climate. I don't think the representative should worry so much that environmental policy becomes rhetorical and word-making for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e513	There will be three follow-up questions – first Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e516	The Council of State addressed this with climate policy and the need for action to be implemented in Norway. SVs Hallgeir Langeland has said in several media that the Government is working on the introduction of a natural gas tax for the use of natural gas that is not part of the quota system today. It will have a rather dramatic impact on much of the industry and on those households that have invested in the use of natural gas today in order to ensure better energy flexibility. Can the Council of State guarantee that such a natural gas tax will not be imposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e525	I can't give any guarantees here, but I would like to stress that the government is looking at everything that has to do with charging policies and incentives to create a good environmental policy. We will come back to that in the context of the 2007 state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e530	Ivar Kristiansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e533	In fact, I don't think the state council here is close to answering Kvassheim's questions and challenges. She points out that there is a great deal to be taken back in the field of environmental policy and energy policy. Here you have a pre-configured scheme for the introduction of green certificates. We have investors and projects in line, in large bunkers, projects that are waiting for concession treatment at NVE. What you're doing now is you're describing a massive paralysis of action. And what's actually even worse is that in this situation, with the new government's paralysis of action in this area, where the undercoverage is increasing in the future – and this actually has enough evidence for the new government – we're making ourselves even more dependent on Polish-polluting coal power and Russian nuclear power. What comes from putting all of your ambitions into green certificates, completely on the shelf?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e540	The government is very concerned that we should invest in renewable energy as an important element of both climate and energy policy. A commitment to renewable energy is important not only to the environment but also to the energy we need. We have said that we should introduce a mandatory green certification market. I can assure you that we are planning and going to do so. But we need a little bit more time to figure it out and to look at the consequences, in collaboration with, for example, Sweden. But I would like to remind you that the investment in renewable energy is an important element for us, and the Stortinge can feel absolutely confident that we are actively working with green certificates.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e548	Line Henriette Holten Hemdal – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e551	It is fine that the Council of State believes that pastors have led a miserable environmental policy. Today we are also told that we are following. We've heard this before. But if such analyses are to be of credibility, we will soon have to know what concrete, new, radical steps the Council of State has taken, and what new policies will be put forward. There were action plans in relation to climate, there were investigations in relation to pollutants, and there was work in relation to biodiversity, the Council of State replied to Gunnar Kvassheim here earlier today. What radical action has the Council of State taken? And what new policy will be put forward? It should be possible to obtain an answer if such tough descriptions of predecessors are to have any credibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e560	We have just seen a study that also shows that Norway has fallen from second place to far lower in an international environmental survey compared to other countries. It tells us that the last few years of environmental policy have just been marked by great words and little action. Here this government has a clear ambition, and we are now doing that work. We go into different sectors and set targets for climate change reduction. We are looking at pollutants, and among other things. we are now investigating the ban on environmental toxins in consumer products. We are now working on even greater protection plans to ensure biodiversity. This is simply how we have to work systematically, area by area, just to be concrete and action-oriented and to ensure that Norway can be repatriated as an environmental nation. It's absolutely necessary that we do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e567	The President will again recall the speaking time of the oral questioning session. Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e572	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment. In central Norway today we experience an industrial adventure. Hydro Aluminium at Sunndalsøra, Hustadmarmor and Worm Lange are all major projects that everyone enjoys, but that also use a lot of power. It is a paradox that we are building the Worm Lange to secure the energy supply in England, while at the same time endangering the energy supply in Central Norway. One needs production equal to 5 pst. of current consumption throughout Norway only in More and Romesdal. Professional environments warn against power crisis and sky-high power prices. Fortunately, we have some gas power projects in the area that the trade unions say are the only solutions that will work in terms of volume, time horizon and cost. Nevertheless, the Council of State requires CO2 clean-up at this power plant. If it turns out that this requirement for CO2 clean-up is delaying a gas power plant so much that we are entering a time when we are at risk of a power crisis, will the Council of State waive the requirement for CO2 clean-up?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e590	Man-made climate change is one of the most serious environmental challenges facing the world community. Already today, we see that climate change is changing people's living conditions. Therefore, climate change is one of the most important approaches to issues related to the cleaning of gas power plants on the Tjeldbergodden. We have to remember that in the case of CO2 removal and CO2 cleaning, the Soria Moria Declaration explicitly states that new gas power plants should have sewage treatment plants in place. It is an important environmental policy measure. That's why we want it to be a prerequisite for the question of the development of the Tent Credit.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e601	I thank you for your answer. The Council of State refers to CO2 clean-up requirements as an important climate policy instrument. At the same time, Norway exports 99 pst. of the production of gas to Europe. A gas power plant in Norway would release approx. One million. tonnes of CO2. The gas we export to Europe is approximately equivalent. 700 tonnes of CO2. In Europe there are no cleaning requirements. In Europe, Norwegian entrepreneurs build gas power plants without having problems, but in Norway they would face so severe restrictions that it would be inappropriate for all to build. This must be seen in the context of an actual warning against a power crisis in Central Norway. When all power generating agencies in Norway warn against a power crisis in Central Norway from 2009 due to extremely large increases in electricity consumption, including: from the Worm Lange, one should be able to look at the whole, not just at the individual climate policy instruments. Looking at the environment as a whole, one sees that the alternative to building a gas power plant is either to build a line from other parts of the country – a line that is likely to go through several national parks – or to build 1,500 wind turbines in More and Romesdal, nor does it appear to be a particularly good alternative for the environment. I ask again, if it turns out that a power crisis is at risk because of the requirement for CO2 clean-up, can one not then accept that gas plants are being built with the best technology in the world, and then put on CO2 clean-up when the technology is available?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e627	In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government parties have said that we want to ‘ensure a better balance of power by both increasing access to power and reducing the growth of consumption’. And then we have said that in order to secure policy, we want to look at energy efficiency improvement, new renewable energy and gas power plants with CO2 management in the future. We can't just view gas power plant development as an energy measure. We also need to see that this is about taking responsibility for the environment, and that we need to ensure CO2 management, so that we also meet the major environmental challenges of the future. It is absolutely right that this is also a challenge in terms of the environment and climate, which is an international issue. We therefore need to work actively for international agreements, while at the same time working with national measures. So we cannot waive the responsibility for increasing emissions in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e640	There will be three follow-up questions – first Ivar Kristiansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e643	The Council of State says that the Soria Moria Declaration is proposing to increase access to renewable energy. But this force does not come when you say no to new hydroelectric projects. They say no to existing projects that go to small-scale power plants. They say no to introduce a Norwegian-Swedish green certificate solution that can offer a range of 5–15 new TW, and now they say, in the crisis situation facing Middle Norway, no to the Tent Goods and a gas power solution there. Does this mean that you go against a deliberate undercoverage in Central Norway, which means you end up in divorce with 8-10 TW in a few years? Is this a message for Hydro to pack up its aluminium mill and take it out of Middle Norway to another country, which does not make the same demands? Or what message does the Council of State give to those who are going to build industry and create jobs in central Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e650	I want to make it quite clear that the government does not say no to green certificates. This is primarily the responsibility of the Minister of Oil and Energy, but I know he's working hard on that project, and it doesn't mean in any way that the government has said no to green certificates. We have also said that we want to work with both energy efficiency improvement and new renewable energy, such as. Means wind power, and we want to work with CO2 management to prevent increased emissions. It is this total package that means that we will have a renewal both on renewable energy and on more environmentally friendly energy. But the actual overall supply of power in Central Norway is the Minister of Oil and Energy who has the full overview and can be more detailed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e661	Gunn Berit Gärde - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e664	The energy deficit in Central Norway is so large that unfortunately it cannot be resolved either with several small power plants or with bioenergy input, even if it should be increased. Wind power plants are so many applications that they create problems. The left supports the requirement to start work on a gas power plant, but the left also supports the view that this must have CO2 cleaning. My question will then be: Will the Government ensure that the same work is started around a gas power plant in More and Romesdal as was done on Kårstø? The Government will review the possibilities associated with the saved wired network to the State, e.g. the line that costs NOK 1 billion – and see if you can use the money to build a gas power plant with CO2 cleaning? When will the government signal the time this work will be available?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e679	The Gas Power Plant at Tjeldbergodden is for treatment in two departments, the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Environmental Protection. In an adjustment from the SFT that has just landed on my table, it is recommended that full CO2 management be applied to the Tent Goods. The further consideration of the matter in the Government will just be that we are sewing together the positions of the oil and energy ministers and of the Environment Minister, and that we are basing what the Soria Moria statement has said about the fact that investing in new technology will just lead to the gas power plant being based on CO2 removal. As far as landing issues are concerned, the Minister for Oil and Energy is the first to have this in his department now and will promote the matter for the Government. Then we will come back to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e692	Line Henriette Holten Hemdal – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e695	The SV's environmental policy has been big words, major investigations and major plans, and so far zero action through this questionnaire. But we have great challenges ahead of us. Every day we get closer to the end of the Kyoto period. Every day we lose one day to fulfill the obligations we have set ourselves. It does not appear that the cramp has taken the Minister for the Environment, and she has told the Norwegian people that she should fight for what she believes in, according to the Evening Post of December 18, 2005. Therefore, it becomes natural to ask the Minister for the Environment if she can now guarantee that no emissions permit will be granted without CO2 management from the first day at the gas power plant on the Tjeldbergodden, as her underlying establishment, SFT, has recommended. The wordings of the Soria Moria statement at this point are known in this hall, so you don't have to repeat them. But I am asking for a further development of Soria Moria's policy in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e705	I have explicitly said that the commitment to CO2 management is an important element for the Government in a strengthened national climate action. I have also said that the setting from SFT, which has just ended up on my table, says that we should have full CO2 management on the Tent Goods. The Minister of Oil and Energy is working with other parts of the investigation into the Tjeldbergodden, and then the Government will take the final decision. The Soria Moria declaration is quite clear as to what is the case when decisions are to be taken for new gas power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e716	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e722	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 8 and 10 from the representatives of Ketil Solvik-Olsen and Vera Lyskleat to the Minister for Oil and Energy, respectively, will be answered by the Minister for Food and Trade on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has been removed. Questions 9 and 11 from the representatives of Line Henriette Holten Hämdal and Per-Kristian Foss respectively to the Minister for Oil and Energy are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has departed. Questions 15, 16 and 19, from the representatives of Ola T. Lånke, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr and Per Roar Bredvold respectively to the Minister for Transport, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Questions 17 and 18, from the representatives Trond Helleland and Gunn Berit Gjerde respectively to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has left. Questions 21 and 22, from representatives Bent Höie and Kari Lise Holmberg respectively to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, are moved and answered at the request of the Council of State for question 5. Question 27, from the representative, André Oktay Dahl, to the Minister of Justice, lapses, as the petitioner has a history of disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e745	My question goes to the Minister of Finance: ‘The Minister of Finance has rejected a request from Tine to exempt school milk from the new environmental tax, despite the high return rate of milk cartons from schools. The promise of free school food seems to end with more expensive school milk. This will particularly affect children from poor homes. Will the Council of State open up a new assessment so that the school milk can free up an additional charge?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e754	I'm very happy to have this question. There are many schoolchildren, parents and teachers who wonder what's going on. The truth is that we can achieve both good environmental policies and cheaper school milk without making a general exception for school milk. But first I would like to remind you that the proposal to extend the basis for environmental taxes on drinking packaging, i.e. a derogation from the packaging of milk and juice was introduced in the draft budget of Mr Bondevik, the representative of Mr Sanner's own government. The previous government did not propose a general exemption for school milk. The environmental tax on the packaging of beverages shall bear the cost of the disposal of drinking packaging as waste in nature. It shall stimulate the collection and return of packaging. Reasons for removing the previous derogation for dairy products and juices, etc. is simply that we now consume beverages in a different way than before. We drink several cartons of milk and juice, and it is easier for these to end up in nature. Therefore, there is no longer any basis for maintaining a general exemption for these types of packaging. What's good about this fee is that it's graduated by return share. This means that packaging entering authorised return systems is reduced by the rate of the return charge. That also means that if you return more than 95 pst. of the cartons, the fee is completely abolished. Today we are able to return ordinary consumers in general approx. 65 pst. That means a charge of about 40 cents per. unit for 2006. But now it's actually so that students are far better than most of us to fold and return cartons. They probably already have a return rate, as it is called, of 90-95. Once State pollution control has confirmed that they will treat the school milk scheme as a separate return system, environmental-conscious school students have every opportunity to get a return rate of more than 95, thereby releasing a full fee. Then we get three things: we get cheaper school milk, less garbage and more environmentally conscious students. So now it's up to Tine to organise a good return system in schools, so we get to all of these three things.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e763	First, let me confirm that it is right that the Council of State says there has been broad support in Stortingen for the proposal to remove the exemption which means that milk from cartons is also charged. But once again, as politicians, we also have the opportunity to see the impact of the proposals we are promoting and the proposals that are being adopted. From the Right, we have clearly called on the Minister of Finance to make an exception to school milk, because we believe that it is unreasonable for school students, as the Minister of Finance has also stressed, to pay a tax. I believe that it would have been unbureaucratic and possible to make this exception. I am pleased that the Council of State has now established its own return system for school milk, which means that there will be a lower fee. But let me just get the Council's confirmation that this means that there can still be a charge. They have not received an exemption, but this means that the fee will be reduced if they get a return share of up to 95 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e770	This system that I now propose, which is a good system both of environmental policy and of the price of school milk, will have exactly the same effect as exempting school milk from tax if the return rate is over 95 pst. And so there's no reason to believe that schoolchildren are now going to be more sluggish than before in relation to folding and returning milk cartons in schools, rather on the contrary, so that when Tine and SFT work together to get a return order, and school students around the country are delivering milk cartons, in reality, just as Sanner says, the entire fee is gone. And I'm absolutely sure that school students are so environmentally aware that they get the return rate over 95 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e775	I'm happy with that answer, and especially if the result is that the students don't pay that fee, because it's unreasonable for the students to pay the extra charge for the milk. But only in the end: does this mean that such a scheme will be equal to all actors – not only for Tine, but also for Q-milk and others who might want to offer school milk to schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e782	What has to happen here is that there is an agreement between SFT and Tine that allows us to see that there is a return system where we can make sure that the return share is 95 pst. or more. There should be equal opportunities for other players in this market as well. So what we can do here now is just the three good news at once: we can prevent milk cartons from going into nature, we get environmentally conscious students who are being trained both today and in the future – and they are already much more environmentally conscious than sluggish adults – and we get cheaper school milk. All three things we can do, because we can get to our own return system and not a general fee bill. A general fee bill would have resulted in already environmentally conscious students not being rewarded, but rather being rewarded for not acting as environmentally friendly as before. So this is a good solution with three benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e793	‘Cambodia has received a lot of support after the fall of the communist guerrilla in 1979, including from Norway. In 2004, the country was visited by the HKH Crown Prince and assistance to health care. In the last few months, we have seen a clear weakening of the rule of law. Leading human rights activists like Pa Nguon Tieng, Kem Sokha and Yeng Virak are imprisoned. The UN Human Rights Commissioner, Human Rights Watch and Amnesty are concerned. What are the possibilities for the Government to exercise influence over the authorities of Cambodia in this matter, preferably with other countries?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e800	First of all, I am happy to tell you that the three human rights activists to whom the representative Vallersnes refers, as well as journalist Mom Sonando and trade union leader Rong Chhun, were released in the middle of January of this year. The government equally fully shares the concern about the negative political developments in Cambodia and the serious violations of human rights that have taken place recently. What are the possibilities for the Government to exercise influence over the Cambodian authorities? Let me mention some examples of work forms and instruments: Norway has long been involved in measures to support and protect human rights defenders, and we are working closely with other countries in this area. It is primarily an ongoing international pressure that can strengthen and protect human rights in this country. From our side, we have recently developed a guide to our foreign stations, such as: tells of concrete actions and forms of cooperation that can be used in human rights work and support to human rights defenders. In mid-January, Norway's ambassador to Thailand had a meeting with his Cambodian colleague in which our concern for freedom of expression in Cambodia in general and the situation of human rights defenders was highlighted in particular. Such contacts will be continued, including in international forums. At the same time, Norway joined an EU declaration on the worsening political situation in the country. I can also add that Norway has contributed a total of 6.6 million. kr to the Khmer Red Tribute, which is established as an extraordinary entity within the existing judiciary of Cambodia, as a mixture of a national court and an international tribunal. This so-called United Nations Assistance to the Khmer Rouge Trials, UNCCRT, will constitute an important norm-setting instrument for judicial settlement and reconciliation in Cambodia – in support of the rule of law and for the promotion of respect for human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e824	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the answer and the presentation. I hope it's an engagement that's generally no matter where these countries are on the globe, and what relationship we have to the political systems. Of course, it is gratifying to see the release that has taken place, and as I understand it happened about the time we submitted this question. However, the event is still at hand – one is being imprisoned for peaceful opinions. As a former doctor I have the sense of such equations, and I see it as a symptom of a morbidity in this country. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs give an assessment of whether he is of the opinion that developments in the democratic direction are in the right direction or whether there is now a wrong path?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e833	Let me first say that the humanitarian engagement in Cambodia has been in a phase-out for Norway since 2001. We don't give money directly to the country's authorities, but via the UN, the Red Cross, etc. Developments in Cambodia have certain characteristics of a long-term system of governance, where the replacements and renewals may appear to be lacking. At the same time, I believe that keeping an international pressure on a country that has been under great strain, internal war and war and instability in the region is the way we have to go. According to the BBC, Prime Minister Hun Sen recently stated that the allegations against the five released persons on whom the representative asked questions should be withdrawn. I think it's an expression that international pressure in such cases actually benefits, and that it must be the way to go, namely to keep Cambodia responsible. We need to be aware that the country has a history that makes it impossible for us to expect change as quickly as in other countries, but this country is so integrated into the region and the world that international pressure can actually benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e842	I share far along that assessment of developments in Cambodia. The United Nations organized elections there in 1993. So ten years passed until a was banned from all kinds of demonstrations, and now we see a prison of political opponents and human rights champions. Of course, it is gratifying to see that international pressure seems to have an effect, but it remains to be seen the long-term development. The task now has to be to hold back the commitment of the international community, both diplomatically and in connection with assessments of assistance and development assistance. If it is to be a real democracy, we must expect that the people can feel safe that they are not being imprisoned for opinions. I perceive the Minister for Foreign Affairs that Norway will maintain its pressure both through international channels and through assessments of the direct Norwegian actions in Cambodia.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e853	I can confirm what Mr Vallersnes is asking us to do, that we want such an commitment, both through our bilateral contacts with Cambodia, which are not many, and through our channels in the region. I think the regional development here is going to be very important. We know that here we have a region that 20-30 years ago was through great tumors and war. We had hoped early in the 1990s, as the representative pointed out, but now there is evidence that the democratic impulse that came in 1993 seems to be exhausted. We must put that on the agenda regionally through the UN and in the bilateral contacts we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e865	I allow myself to ask this question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘North areas are vital for Norway, both because of geopolitical considerations and large natural resources. The situation in the northern regions raises a number of legal issues. To what extent will the Minister of Foreign Affairs contribute to facilitating further judicial research focusing on the North, in particular on maritime law issues?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e874	The northern regions are the main strategic focus of the Government in the future. A comprehensive and comprehensive effort in the north implies that we need to get the best possible knowledge base in order to make good judgements, make right decisions and give clear and good priority. Management, development and dissemination of competences and knowledge are of strategic importance for this policy. Insight on wider contexts and cross-border effects gives Norwegian research and knowledge relevance both to our closest neighbours and in a wider perspective. In the north, we manage resources and the environment of global importance. It's the government's ambition that we, among other things. through a new action to consolidate Norway’s position as a leading knowledge nation in the northern regions by Barents 2020. Sustainable development and sound exploitation of marine natural resources must take place within the foreseeable framework of the rules of international law. The 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea provides the overall legal framework for the peaceful exploitation of marine areas. Norway has long and solid traditions of involvement in the development and implementation of the rules of the law of the sea. The Norwegian administrative apparatus has considerable competence in this field, which I know the representative Dørum is also familiar with and has worked with as a State Council. It has always been a prerequisite to have such knowledge for the protection of Norwegian interests in this important area in general and in relation to the northern regions in particular. Extensive and valuable work is being done in international and our own maritime law research. This research has also fed the work of the authorities. This applies not least to questions related to, for example: environmental rules at sea, management of living resources and sharing-line principles, to mention something. The said Barents 2020 project will contribute to the development of other areas of action where there may be a greater need for coordinated research, including in the field of science and technology. However, these areas of intervention will be further assessed by an expert selection of the North Areas under the direction of Principal Jarle Aarbakke.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e891	I fully share both the Council of State and the Government's definition of the importance of the northern regions. The left does it, of course, for the reasons stated by the Council of State. I am also pleased that the Government uses the most possible opportunity to promote this. I see the answer as positive, because it implies a recognition that we have a commitment, and we have an opportunity. Some of the things that build civilization are, among other things, legally binding rules. Once I have formulated the question that I have done, it is not because I do not know that the Norwegian administration has competence, but it is because much of the development that took place in the 1970s, which was carried out, among other things. by the then state council Even so, I think for several good reasons may need further development in our time. Firstly, we have national reasons for acting in a proper and proper way, as the Council of State has said, and secondly, we are dealing with large areas that are part of the general public on the globe. One of the things that gives small nations the ability to tone is to make sure that justice is good, that justice is good. I also say it with the thought that forensic research has never been very strongly developed in Norway. There is a need to bet on it, and that is why I have asked the question that I have done. I want to underline the importance of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e902	I believe the representative of Dørum has asked a timely question, and I take it with me as a constructive input. I believe that some of our challenge lies in the knowledge dissemination of legal sources, the dissemination of what is in the law of the sea, the principles of sovereignty and jurisdiction. I notice it myself in conversations with representatives of other countries. There is now an interesting effort to map the continental shelf's reach northwards, with which the representative Dørum is familiar. It's extending up towards the pole area. This is a legal area bordering on research and the production of new knowledge. I would like to add that in Norway we should have the perspective that just isn't a stable state – it's developing. That is why we attach so much importance to the importance of sovereignty enforcement and presence to underpin that sovereignty. But we will always – and that is my experience – be in close contact with external legal environments, so that it is not just our own legal sources, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' Legal Affairs' department and the Justice Department's law department that owns the truth, but that we will also be replenished from research within Norway and also internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e913	I appreciate the reflective dialogue of the Council of State and I can have here, because it is of national interest and also of interest to the country's position internationally. Of course, I fully agree that there is always a need for the dissemination of legal insight and competence, and that it can never be underestimated. We experience this over and over again in the practical work on complex and far-reaching political issues. I have experienced it myself in an earlier phase of my life, for example. in meeting with aspects of the EU system. When I underlined the need to look at research, it is because legal science is under development, and because we can contribute both in Norway and in interactions with international environments. So I want to carefully encourage the Council of State to look at the environments we have at our legal faculties both in Bergen, Oslo and Tromsø that have competence and insight, and will believe that it is also such that the Research Council in its efforts to contribute in the northern regions will be able to see the benefits of it. I am sending this signal to the Council of State because he has given me an open hand on behalf of our popular community, and I want to express myself in this way: Law science is important; it is right that we build civilization.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e924	Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs wish to reply?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e927	Since I get the opportunity, I want to answer that. I'm going to have a statement in the Great Britain next week about foreign policy, where this with emphasis on a society built on law, including internationally, which ensures that people get ready on behalf of power, becomes an important component. But I also want to add that the legal issues are becoming very important to us in the northern regions in connection with the different activities, not least on the energy side. There are then legal issues, or there may be questions from others about how this activity is related to our legal obligations. There I take the signal from the representative of Dørum as a good input in terms of preparing our own readiness to meet discussions related to everything from stealing to oil activities in the Barents Sea. It is part of the societal perspective of Barents 2020 that we also look at the legal situation. But I can only join the representative's emphasis and say that we should look at it with renewed interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e938	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘The Minister of Foreign Affairs stated in the Newspaper on 24 January that he would ‘reopen the dialogue with the Cuban authorities’, i.e. with Fidel Castro's authoritarian regime. The opposition in Cuba will then be excluded from Norwegian May 17 receptions, i.e. the remainder of the opposition not yet imprisoned, executed or pursued in exile. What are the expectations of the Foreign Minister that a dialogue based on Fidel Castro's dictatorship will promote democracy in Cuba?'
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e947	I would first like to clarify a manifest misunderstanding in Solberg's question, where she suggests that the Government initiates dialogue with the Cuban authorities 'based on the dictates of Fidel Castro'. The Government intends to be able to influence Cuban authorities, intervene with civil society, maintain ongoing contact with those who want democracy, human rights and development, and promote Norwegian interests in the country and region. Therefore, the government decided to step out of an isolated position, where we had weak or no chance to achieve any of these goals. The government believes that we should keep the channels open for dialogue for the longest time, even with authorities that may have very different political views in relation to us. The list of such countries is unfortunately long, and I'm not going to ram them up here. The reason is that, based on experience, we believe that through dialogue and, where necessary, critical dialogue, we can influence more than by standing on the outside. With regard to Cuba, the situation was that Norway acceded to the EU decision in 2003 to introduce a practice of inviting dissidents to national day celebrations. Cuban authorities replied to freeze all contact with these countries. At the turn of the year 2004/2005, the EU withdrew from this practice and made arrangements to restore contacts with the authorities. The EU is experiencing a weakening of the possibilities of improving the situation, both for political rights and for the human rights situation in the country, by losing contact with the authorities. Norway continued this practice. Finally, we were the only European country with such a practice. I think Romania was the last country to go away from it. As a result, Norwegian diplomats in Cuba were cut off from all contacts with Cuban authorities, i.e. with all departments and state institutions. Norway plays an important role as a support player for human rights defenders in Cuba. In order to continue this commitment, in order to create opportunities for an even greater commitment to the Cuban community, to secure a wider contact network and to support contacts between Norwegian and Cuban organisations, the Cuban authorities were informed on 5 January that the practice of inviting dissidents to our national day celebration would cease. At the same time, it was emphasised that the Norwegian involvement in supporting human rights in Cuba would be continued. Since then, relations between the Cuban authorities and the Embassy of Norway have been normalised. The 2003 decision to invite dissidents to national day events was part of a broad international response to the human rights situation in the country. The EU assessment was that the measure did not improve the situation. EU countries chose to strengthen contact with human rights defenders in a way other than by inviting them to national day celebrations. The government's assessment was that we achieved little by standing back alone. Norway plays an important role in supporting human rights defenders in Cuba. Our assessment was that we are better placed to continue this role for the other 364 days of the year. Norway has established a good contact network with different parts of civil society in Cuba. We'll take advantage of that in the time that comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e970	Now it is the case that Fidel Castro's regime proposed dialogue with the Norwegian authorities to stop inviting dissidents to the 17th May celebration. I therefore think it is quite reasonable to say that it has now been decided to follow the dictates of the Norwegian authorities. I also record that the Council of State in reply to the representative Vallersnes was very fundamentally concerned with human rights and thought that human rights violations were to be severely affected. So I think it's important to strike hard on regimes too, even though the left side of Norway tends to paint the situation in Cuba. There seems to be a tendency to forget that there has been a wave of executions, arrests, use of torture, capital punishment, brainwashing, spectralism and repression, not least of homosexuals. Last year, Norway granted five gay people from Cuba asylum in Norway because of the persecution that is taking place and it is exacerbated. That's why I think it's important that we maintain a high level of human rights marking against the regime in Cuba.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e977	I can join what Solberg here says. I want to say that with the position we're now in, we can do it in a more marked way. The Norwegian Embassy in Cuba has, as I said, a broad network of contacts against human rights environments. I mentioned to the representative Vallersnes that we have now developed a very practical manual on how the embassies can support human rights fighters. Of course, it will also be useful in Cuba. I think then, to sum up, that this is a better measure than symbolic annual markers by inviting people to 17 May receptions. We can do this 364 other days of the year differently. And we are in line with the European Union, as I know that Solberg's representative is otherwise focusing on foreign policy. Let me also mention that they have the situation in Cuba that they are exposed to an embargo from the United States. Since 1993, Norway has voted in favour of the lifting of that embargo, while at the same time evading human rights violations. I think we're now going to be in a better position to do that in a way that's being marked and that's being listened to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e986	Policy changes often give signals to those who have wanted that policy change, about their influence and what signals have been given. In this context, the background, at least according to the public media, is that, after visiting Cuba, Gerd Liv Valla met the Cuban trade union movement, which is an integral part of Castro's regime of oppression – there is no free trade union movement in Cuba – took up this question with the Government, and then the Government followed up what Gerd Liv Valla said. This means that the movement made by the Norwegian Government is read as if the Cuban regime, through its contact with the Norwegian LO, had managed to change the Government’s position. It's perceived as a victory for Cuban authorities, and as a loss for the opposition in Cuba. Isn't that a concern of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e993	I sometimes think it's like reading and getting messages because you want to get a message. I want to be confirmed in this room that shortly after I became Minister for Foreign Affairs, I started working on a full review of our policy towards Cuba, based on the attitude I have expressed in my reply, that dialogue will give us better access to making representations with Cuban authorities. It's not based on any single trip to Cuba, it's based on the fact that we've seen developments since 2003 going in a direction that has weakened the potential we have to influence. That is why I believe that through this we have sent a signal that we want dialogue. I think Cuban authorities will realize that this is causing them trouble because we're going to be able to deal with issues related to the human rights situation in far more areas. Perhaps it will also be the beginning of a more fundamental debate on whether such isolated symbolic boikots, which are not noticed, lead to results. As for the way it is read, I have also noticed that the Christian People's Party, which was set up in the previous government, has given full support to this action and believes that it is a right choice. So I don't think it's so clear in the political environment how this has been read.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1006	I have the following questions for the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘The uncontrolled overfishing in the Barents Sea and other sea areas is environmental crime that seriously impairs the sustainable management of fishing resources. Overfishing represents large values, approx. 2 billion. kr annually and in addition reduces quotas for normal fishing. What concrete measures will the Government take to control overfishing, in order to ensure sustainable management of fish resources?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1015	The Government shares the concerns expressed by the representative of Korsberg regarding illegal fishing. Uncontrolled fishing – illegal, unreported and unregistered fishing, or IUU fishing called in the professional language – is a global problem. The government is very serious about this, and we therefore prioritise the work against illegal, unregistered and unreported fishing. A broad, systematic approach is needed both in relation to the partners in the fisheries management in our neighbourhoods and internationally in different management organisations and in the UN. The Soria Moria Declaration explicitly states that unregulated fishing, especially in the Barents Sea, is a serious environmental problem and an economic problem and that it must be stopped. Several government councils have this on their agenda, primarily the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, who have a very broad commitment in this area, but also the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Defence, the Minister for the Environment and myself. The Government has strengthened the Coast Guard’s ability to control resources and has provided Fisheries Directorate with funds to strengthen the overall effort against such fisheries. We are working to address the problems of transhipment in the Barents Sea with subsequent unregistered landings in third countries. I refer to this in conversations with my European colleagues, at the latest yesterday in a conversation with my Spanish colleague. With regard to the Russian authorities, this has been discussed in the framework of the Joint Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission and in the sub-committee of this Commission, the Standing Committee on Management and Control. The matter will be dealt with during the visits that both the Minister for Fisheries and the Coast and I myself will be taking in Moscow this February. And I can confirm that it will also be on the agenda when the Russian Prime Minister visits our own Prime Minister in March. In the near future, the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, in addition to having discussions with his Russian colleague, will also discuss the control issues with EU Commissioner Borg in Brussels and with his Icelandic, Swedish and Spanish colleagues. It is of great importance that we are able to mobilise as much as possible in the fight against illegal fishing. Depending on the developments and the above-mentioned discussions and actions, the Government will continuously and offensively assess the need for any further action.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1038	I thank the Council of State for the answer and agree that a dialogue and joint management of these sea areas is absolutely necessary and essential. But on the way there, I think you have to put some measures in place. There are possibilities for control points in the Barents Sea. You have the possibility of introducing a landing facility, you can withdraw a licence, you can strengthen the Coast Guard and not just the bureaucracy and the Fisheries Directorate, and you can have inspectors on board. You have a number of options if you want to – apart from that dialogue with other parties, because I think that's going to be important. As the Council of State had in mind, the Treaty of the Law of the Sea provides for the possibility for a transshipment vessel to enter the various economic zones. Looking at what has been done further south in the case of tuna fishing, there has been a common control system similar to that applied to fishing vessels. Will the Council of State work actively to also implement such a scheme in the Barents Sea, and when can a solution be expected?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1045	The first thing I want to say is that all of the measures that the representative of Korsberg mentions are continually being considered – and they are being used on an ongoing basis. At the same time, we are facing a number of quite demanding legal issues, such as the free movement of passengers through an area of illegal cargo. I think this is a control issue that we need to work with Russia on, but it is primarily a landing problem. Norwegian fish landed in Norway are weighed and counted, so to speak, while many illegal fish are unregistered into European markets. Of course, the different experiences and measures taken in other countries regarding other fish species with other types of fishing vessels will be carefully studied and considered to be appropriate for Norwegian conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1050	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I agree that this is a difficult legal area to deal with, but what to be aware of is that overfishing and environmental crime in the Barents Sea have a very long tradition. It's been going on for decades, and when you see that the ordinary allocations of fishing quotas go down year after year, it's high time you actually start doing something concrete in the Barents Sea and not just letting meetings and bureaucracy take care of it. I think you actually have to do some concrete action, so that other nations also see that Norway wants to enforce what we are responsible for. As a coastal state, Norway is just as sovereign to draw a 200-mile border around Svalbard as from the mainland. Has the Government and the State Council considered introducing the kind of measures around Svalbard, where we currently have a fishing protection zone?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1057	I'm just going to point out first what I said in my answer, that we're constantly doing a lot of things of a practical nature. The latest episodes that have been widely reported in the media, the construction of ships and dispersals with other countries’ trawlers and shipowners show a rather high profile and a suitable profile from the Norwegian side. But we are following this continuously, not least that the Coast Guard's capacity and concrete presence in the sea is good enough. We have to come back to that when we plan further for the presence of the Defence. With regard to the issue of the Svalbard fishing protection zone and an alternative approach by establishing a 200-mile economic zone, the Government does not have any other attitude to it than Norway has now had, namely that the fishing protection zone gives us, solidly planted in international law, opportunities to manage fisheries properly. A development in that position is not something that is currently on the Government's agenda, but something we obviously need to have an open look to follow like any other international law, cf. The answer I gave to the representative Dørum.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1064	Now we go to 21 and 22.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1071	I will ask the Minister for Labour and Inclusion the following questions: ‘In a letter of 16 January 2006 to the Ministry, the Director of the UDI writes that in some cases they experience that established practices can be opposed to fundamental human rights. Has the UDI conducted a practice in cases of residence contrary to the law and does the UDI Director of State Council share its assessment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1080	In a letter to the Ministry of 16 January 2006, the UDI states that they believe that established practices in some cases of residence can be contrary both to fundamental human rights and to strong reasonableness. After UDI's letter, I asked the UDI to clarify what they are looking for with such a formulation. In the same enquiry, I have referred to the Foreign Affairs Act, which states that the law is to be applied in accordance with international rules by which Norway is bound when these are intended to strengthen the position of foreigners. In response of 27 January 2006, the UDI emphasises that they do not have a practice contrary to human rights. However, the UDI states that they consider that there are some dilemmas related to the conditions set by the law for residence in Norway and that they believe that some of these conditions may be contrary to fundamental rights. The UDI therefore wants a wider debate on these dilemmas. Norway, like other countries, needs regulated immigration, and Norwegian legislation is designed in the light of this. Against this background, conditions are set for those who will be able to travel to and live in Norway. The need for immigration-regulating conditions has been widely agreed politically in Norway since the adoption of the Foreign Affairs Act in 1988. I believe it is important to emphasise that setting conditions for who should be able to stay in Norway is not contrary to human rights, and it must also be raised beyond any doubt that the Foreign Affairs Act is in conformity with and to be interpreted in accordance with conventions that respect human rights. Through the work on new foreign law, the government will have a very thorough review of all aspects of Norwegian immigration regulation, and today's media as well, and of course we will also focus on regulatory dilemmas. The same will be true of Stortinget through its consideration of the proposal for a new foreign law, and I would like to invite the representatives of Stortinget to take an active part in the debate on how Norwegian immigration regulation will be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1095	I am happy to hear that the UDI has now clarified in a later letter that what they wrote in the first letter is not their opinion, because this cannot be interpreted in any other way. The challenges associated with high reasonableness are quite obvious in today's law, but related to fundamental human rights it should have been clarified, and we have now received an answer to that. It is also true that the UDI, in its opinion on new foreign law, emphasises that they are satisfied with the general reference to the international conventions Norway has signed, in today's law, and that it is also continued in the new legal text. Had it been so that the UDI believed that today's foreign law was in violation of fundamental human rights, it would have been natural that they had taken it up in the hearing that has been held on the Foreign Affairs Act. Is it true, as I understand it, that UDI has not really meant what was said in the first letter?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1106	Let me first just join in the assessment that the representative Höie now came with. So to repeat myself, it's just that I asked UDI on the basis of that wording for a more detailed description of what they meant. They then, in response to me on 27 January – that is just a few days ago – underlined that they do not have a practice that is contrary to human rights. It was supposed to be just missing! It is clear that very much of the central basis of Norwegian immigration policy is that we must respect fundamental human rights and that we must comply with Norwegian international agreements. There is, of course, part of the debate on immigration policy in Norway. I mean, and I also think that the representative Höie believes that there are political environments in Norway that do not take that reality inward. At least we have to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1119	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Employment and Inclusion the following questions: ‘Staff employees of enterprises participating in the 5-year disability pension scheme as wage subsidies are found to face major obstacles. In a letter to the undersigned of 18 January 2006, the Council of State refers to the legislation, which says that it is necessary to be able to work for a new 26 weeks in order to qualify for sickness benefit. The insured person is not given a new chance when the often very old medical history has to be counted in a new employment relationship. The project failed. Will the State Council ensure that participants in the project are exempted from the social security rules?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1128	When an employee has been employed for four weeks, he/she will be entitled to sickness benefits from the employer during the employer’s period. This also applies to persons participating in the disability pension scheme as wage subsidies. Therefore, in the case of short-term absences up to 16 days, he/she will be entitled to sickness benefits from the employer. If the worker has received sickness benefits before being granted a disability pension for a maximum period of social security, he or she must be fully employed for 26 weeks in order to be entitled to sickness benefits from social security. However, it is important to note here that short absences up to 16 days do not interrupt the vesting period of 26 weeks. in the case of common diseases such as: a cold will be paid sickly during the employer's period. If the worker has a chronic illness leading to frequent short sick leave, the employee or the employer may apply for sickness benefits from the social security office during the employer's period, in order to stimulate employers' willingness to accept the disabled. If the sick leave lasts for more than 16 days, he/she will be able to receive his/her disability pension temporarily. The assurance of income will then be the same as he had before starting work through the pilot scheme. I do not have the opportunity to grant exemptions from the rules of the Law on Sickness Allowance for some groups. If the rules are to be waived, this must be done by means of a legislative amendment. It would raise questions about who such a rule change should apply to, i.e. whether it applies to all recipients of rehabilitation benefits, back-up and early retirement benefits. In the case of experimental activities, the Ministry may agree to a derogation from the provisions of the Law on Social Security. The test facility must be professionally and economically soundly supported, and specific means must be provided for such an experiment. No additional funds have been allocated for sickness benefits to the disability pension scheme as wage subsidies. I do not think it would have been right for disability pensioners who try to work already after four weeks to be entitled to sickness benefit for up to one year. But I also want to say the following: The government is now working with a big message that we are going to submit to the autumn, which has the job title Work, well-being and inclusion. Part of that work is about reviewing the entire regulatory framework, with a view to making it work better compared to a more inclusive working life. Among the measures we work with is also a better system to stimulate the under-employed to take a job, where it is possible for them to do so. I will at least promise the representative that the issue that is being addressed here belongs naturally to the extensive reporting work that we are doing in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1143	I thank the Council of State for the answer and review of the legislation, but I would just like to make a brief remark that 16 days are short if you have a broken leg or tendon infection. It is not that everyone necessarily gets the same income by going back to the social security system, because some people have actually got a full job and are doing excellent jobs, until you are unhappy and fall outside. This uncertainty may prevent those persons who are given the opportunity to participate in the experiment from participating in the experiment. It is quite clear that this is an attempt where we have a code that gives such unfortunate results that it prevents the insured from going back to work. It's important that we look at the obstacle factors, because we live in a complicated society, and we still experience that social security doesn't go back to work just because they either lose income or don't get sick money like other employees. There is reason to look further at both the legislation and the role of case handlers. Will the Council of State go in and change such important factors? And will the Council of State go from word to action?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1150	Let me first say that this is not an attempt that this government and this council have made up. It was an experiment established by the previous government and the legislation was established by the previous government. In this way, I have first and foremost inherited a work that was previously done by the parties the representative knows quite well. Then I also want to say that it's the wrong description to say that if you're unhappy and then get sick over 16 days, you're in a hopeless, impossible situation. You end up in the situation that you get back the disability you had. So it's not like you're losing all your income insurance. You're back where you were before you started work. So the income insurance is taken care of by keeping the disability benefit. But as I said in my main answer, this is a very important topic. We have over 300,000 disabled people in Norway. Many of them want to work, and therefore there is every reason to be more creative than the previous government is doing well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1157	We have a complicated code, and it's built up by different governments. My main point is to focus on the fact that we have a complicated society, and that we have legislation that needs a review, and that needs changes just to make sure that more insured people come to work. Because it's true, as the Council of State says, development is going in the wrong direction, and we haven't put enough tools in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1162	This will give Stortinget a very good opportunity to go into the harvest thoroughly when the paper on work, well-being and inclusion is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1167	Then the size goes back to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1174	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘Information has been provided in the local press in Hedmark which clearly indicates that the stock target for wolves, as set by Stortinget during the predatory game settlement, has been reached. In addition, there is a strong increase in cross-border flocks and populations in Sweden. The current situation causes a strong, concentrated load in the areas of Solør/Elverum, where the main gravity of the establishment is. Will the Council of State permit local hunting so that the burden can spread and are there plans to compensate for the areas affected?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1183	As far as I understand it, there is today little disagreement about the number of wolves found in Hedmark, Akershus and Østfold. Among other things, this is because there has been considerable local effort in connection with the tracking work that forms the basis for the stock monitoring programme. The stock monitoring programme for the wolf shows that at the turn of the year there were a total of 15 juveniles or puppy coal of wolves distributed between Sweden and Norway. In comparison, a total of 14 wolfholes of wolf were confirmed to be born in Scandinavia in 2004. Of the 15 new puppy cows, 11 are in Sweden, two are in Norway and two are in the border. The two healers are within the administrative area that Stortinget drew up in the spring of 2004. One of the cross-border teams, based on information from the Hedmark High School, held fairly equally on both sides of the border. The second cross-border fleet has remained mostly on the Swedish side. Furthermore, 34 wolves were detected in Norway at the turn of the year, 28 of them in Hedmark. These have either heroic support or support on both sides of the national border. According to the same report, the corresponding figures for the seven-year period 1999-2005 were an average of 30 wolves in Hedmark. As a result, there has been no increase in the number of Norwegian wolves in the last seven-year period. Today it is approx. ten municipalities within the administrative district of Stortinget for the wolf, in Hedmark, Akershus and Østfold respectively, affected by the wolf. The municipalities of Hedmark, which are currently affected by the wolf, have received compensation of a total of NOK 850 000 for local predatory measures. The funds have been allocated by the regional wild game subject in Hedmark. In addition, a number of preventive measures have been implemented with State support in the affected sheep herds within these wolves and compensation has been paid for all losses and costs incurred. I now have to deal with a complaint about the killing of wolves in this area. In this connection, at the beginning of January, I took the initiative of a meeting with the relevant municipalities and organisations. On this basis, I am now making a thorough assessment and handling of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1200	I have to say, I am surprised that the Minister for the Environment has not come any further into those assessments, because in terms of compensation, this is not just about sheep. The areas that are the most heavily burdened today have been displaced from a long time ago. This is about quality of life, it is about nature-based business that loses potential. And no compensatory measures have been taken. When you talk about the frontier crew, there's a lot of local disagreement. There are some who say that one of the flocks has only a few harry trips to Sweden – otherwise it is Norwegian. But I record that the Minister for the Environment greatly appreciates the local efforts made to provide an overview. The border fleets are very central to the issue here, and I believe that the Council of State should clarify quite quickly that the Norwegian border fleets are part of Norwegian stock targets, and that she also follows up the predatory game settlement by giving the regional predators the right of the Stortinget to have them.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1207	The report was addressed by Stortinget in May 2004. Then there was broad agreement and broad agreement between the then government parties, the Workers' Party and SV. The follow-up now taking place in the department is in line with the Stortingen assumptions. This concerns both stock measurements and the definition of which wolves belong to the Norwegian population, and which are Swedish, as well as border wolf assessments. The same applies to preventive and conflict mitigation measures. In 2006, we added an increase in the budget of approx. NOK 9000000 for these measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1212	Then I will point out what is in the Inner East. S. No 174 for 2003–2004. There the majority say very clearly that the wolf must also be admitted to the regional administration. It's not like that today. I also want to remind the Council of State that it was probably a majority of the Norwegian population who wanted wolves, but it was on the condition that they should not have it close. This is where you hear the level of conflict in the areas that have actually been close to it. It changes people's behaviour in relation to nature, in relation to quality of life and in relation to income potential. It cannot be as lukewarm to the Minister for the Environment as I feel you are doing now. Here it has to clarify a few things. It was also foreseen in the predatory agreement that the areas that had previously been loaded with predatory game might receive a lower load. Now we see the opposite. In Hedmark you approach a reserve tanker in certain parts of the county, and I will strongly oppose that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1221	I have a great deal of understanding that the population is experiencing a lot of stress in Hedmark, and it was also in this connection that I took the initiative to meet both the municipalities and relevant organisations to hear their views and their experiences and experiences. The management of predators must be based on that determined in the Storting. I'm going to follow it very closely, and I'm going to assure the President and the Storting that the follow-up will take place in line with the assumptions of the Storting, and that I'm also taking it seriously with regard to further management.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1232	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment: «State Secretary Westhrin announces in the media on 22 January that it may be appropriate to deprive municipalities of the right to decide on exemptions in coastal zone cases. Statistics from the counties show that most exemptions are relatively insignificant construction measures, and therefore the proportion of exemptions granted does not indicate the extent of construction measures allowed. Does the Council of State believe that such an attitude towards the municipalities strengthens the living local democracy which is to be the foundation of the People's Government, as expressed in the Soria Moria Declaration?»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1241	I'm recording that the agent Fleet is concerned with how the Soria Moria statement is being implemented. As far as the beach zone is concerned, I would like to point out that the statement says that the government will stop the decline, especially in areas with high competition for land use. The dispensation from the plans or the statutory building ban in the 100 meter belt along the sea is in many cases a problem. It has also been pointed out by former environmental protection ministers, and I believe there is a broad consensus on this. We don't just want to talk about the problem, we want to do something about it. In its investigation into changes to the Law on Planning and Building, the Plan Law Committee has, among other things. proposed that, in specific cases or areas of the country, the dispensation authorities may be added to the county or state instead of to the municipality. This proposal is now being considered by the Ministry as an appropriate instrument to follow-up agreed national policies. The conclusion of this assessment and proposals for strengthening coastal zone protection will be submitted to Stortinget as legislative proposals during the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1252	I thank you for your answer. Yes, I think there is reason for the opposition to be concerned that the points of the Soria Moria Declaration on local autonomy are being fulfilled. What is essential in my question is that the attitude of the ministry, as expressed in the press, is that there are the number of exemptions granted in the coastal zone, which are the basis for a restrictive approach. Can the Council of State assure me that one will also look into the content of the cases, and not just look at a percentage, as Secretary of State Westhrin has done, or as the Civil Ombudsman has done, but that one will look at what it is, so that there are no window replacements and de minimis conditions that should be the background to the decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1263	I can assure you that when we are going to make final decisions, they will be based on thorough assessments, where, of course, both percentage and content will be given weight. But I would like to stress that it is a problem for us when we see that exemptions are also given where there are significant interventions that undermine the policy that is agreed upon, especially in stressed areas related to the beach zone.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1268	Yes, I think there is agreement that the beach zone should not be built into central areas. But to put it there is the dispensations themselves and in their number that make up this, I think it's directly wrong to go into the statistics. On the Vestfold coast, in the county I come from, there is not in any of the municipalities built a single new cabin or a single building in the beach zone in recent years. But there are a number of dispensations that go on from window replacements to smaller building measures. In fact, in this statistics, there's also something as prosaic as the mere redundancies, that is, a slightly larger area is divided. You cannot build, but the division simply goes into the dispensation cases. I hope that the Council of State will stand by the assurance that you will go thoroughly into what's under the statistics before you decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1275	Yes, I can assure you that we are going to work thoroughly before we make decisions, in this case as in all other cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1284	This question, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Food and Trade on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1287	I have asked the Minister for Oil and Energy a question: ‘NVE has recently recommended the concession for gas power plants on the Tent Goods. The Minister for the Environment immediately required the installation to have CO2 management from the first day. In the past, the Council of State has stood firm on similar requirements and stated that the builder must take a substantial part of the cost. It involves different concession requirements on Teldbergodden and Kårstø, a practice ESA has strongly reduced in other cases. Does the Council of State consider such discrimination to be fair and lawful?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1299	As stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government’s policy in the field of gas power is based on the fact that given concessions are on the ground and that the production of gas power is to be part of the international quota system which ensures that the total emissions do not increase. Furthermore, the Government has set itself the goal of Norway being the leader in the environmentally friendly use of gas. As indicated in the supplementary budget, the Government, through economic instruments and investment in new technologies, will ensure that new gas power station concessions are based on CO2 removal. The Government will cooperate with gas power builders on CO2 capture installations and contribute financially to their implementation as soon as possible. As regards questions relating to the processing of the applications related to the gas power plant on the Tjeldbergodden, I would like to point out that the NVE granted a concession under the Energy Act. If the concession is appealed, the matter will be dealt with by the Ministry of Oil and Energy. The Ministry of the Environment takes decisions on emission permits in the examination of applications for new gas power plants. In this context, state pollution control provides a setting for the ministry. The setting of the oversight for the Tent Credit was given at the same time as the NVE energy concession. The matter is now being dealt with by both energy and environmental authorities. It is therefore not right for me now to comment on the consequences of what may be the outcome of the final examination of the applications.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1318	There was an answer full of formalities, but where the fundamental clarifications are missing, and there were just good fundamental clarifications we thought we were going to get with a majority rule. That's not happening. State Council Bjørnøy has already announced that CO2 cleaning will be required for the gas power plant on the Tent Goods. It's nice that the government has visions, but the problem in this area is that if you want to have so square visions that you only have to build gas power plants with CO2 cleaning, we know that then gas power plants in More and Romsdal will not be built in some years yet. Given the force situation, it is quite tragic for the region. It is also of concern that one has stricter framework conditions in Norway than in the EU for gas generating plants, taking into account the previous position of the Labour Party in such cases. Does the Government believe that gas power plants will be built more quickly or later if one makes this requirement for CO2 management compared to not having a CO2 management requirement?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1339	In the case of this case, which is directly linked to the gas power plant on the Tjeldbergodden, I initially said that this matter is for the treatment of the energy and environmental authorities. That is why I will not go into this matter in concrete terms. We have to get back to that. However, with regard to the principle issue of CO2 management and CO2 capture, the primacy consultations are determined by the wording given in the Soria Moria Declaration that we aim for Norway to be a leader in CO2 removal, and we are to contribute financially to CO2 capture. It is my strong belief that by achieving the ambitious environmental objectives, we will also be able to achieve the construction of gas power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1358	Does Ketil Solvik-Olsen want follow-up questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1361	Yes, thank you, very much, President, for this is not a proper answer to the question. The problem is that as long as the Government demands CO2 clean-up, a clean-up technology that is not commercially available today and that all market actors say will not be available at a price that the market is willing to pay, and the Government does not allow gas power plants to be built with today’s technology even in a clean-up technology when it is ready, it means that the power situation in Middle Norway will be critical until that gas power plant is in place. It's underlined by more people in the Workers' Party and the Center Party, and I thought the Council of State would listen a little to them. When one refers to the Kårstø plant as a preliminary project, one knows that at best the technology will be in place there, as an experimental project, from 2009. If this works, a person would like to have this evaluated in 2011. And if one then sees that this works, one could start building on the Tent Goods in 2014, five years after what Statnet and NVE have said is critical years for the power situation. Will the Council of State waive the requirement for CO2 clean-up if one sees that the alternative is a power crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1374	As I have said twice now, the specific application that is being considered, I will not go into reality. I'm very aware of the power situation in central Norway. The views of the Solvik-Olsen representative, I will take with me to the Minister for Oil and Energy. But there are some challenges that we are facing, which I am sure we will be able to find a solution, including in terms of the establishment of gas power plants in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1390	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1397	This question will be answered by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1400	I have the following questions to the Council of State: ‘We have recently witnessed the dukes of Narves in the north. It came with a cold, high cooling effect, and led to major problems in the supply of electricity to Finnmark, a state that is totally dependent on the power supplied from Northern, Troms and neighbouring countries in the north. Statnet went out early with an order to disable all unpriority cargo in Finnmark to release capacity. There were full imports on the line from Finland to Finnmark, a country with a power deficit. What will the Council of State do to ensure security of supply?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1409	The army of Narves in northern Norway was very extensive. A combination of so strong cold and strong wind as was the case with Narves, fortunately occurs very rarely. Such extreme weather has consequences not only for the power supply but also for other infrastructure such as: road and ferry connections. In today's society we are dependent on electricity, and the consequences of extensive interruptions can be significant. The companies in the power supply are prepared to handle exceptional situations. All companies have contingency plans, and the power supply has a robust decentralised system to manage outcomes effectively. This system worked, as I know, satisfactorily during the storm Narve. Statnet manned, inter alia: part of its transformer stations in North Norway, which is normally unmanned, in order to be able to quickly initiate repairs to any faults. Other power companies also actively contributed to ensuring the supply of electricity. In addition, Statnett, as the representative Lightcloth points out, informed that all demountable consumption with reduced network rental to Statnet would be disengaged as soon as possible. This is one of Statnet's instruments in such situations. Such a decision will help to reduce the load on the central network and thus also reduce the risk of disruption to final consumers in the event of failure due to storms. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government states that Norway should have a safer and better energy supply. A secure power supply consists of a combination of good power transmission capability and sufficient generation. State network, as a transmission system operator, shall ensure an efficient and secure transmission system for power with sufficient capacity throughout the country. State networks shall invest in transmission networks in accordance with socio-economic principles in order to ensure security of supply. The electricity transmission network in Norway is dimensioned according to Norwegian conditions and has to withstand very much, but it is not possible to secure itself against all conditions. Furthermore, interaction in the Nordic power market is important. As the representative Lyskleätt refers to, the Nordic power market functioned as foreseen by the flow of power from Finland and Sweden to Norway during this storm. This helped to ensure and improve security of supply in the region. The situation in North Norway will now be reviewed by Statnett and NVE to draw on experience and propose any measures that could help prevent the type of situations we witnessed during the storm Narve. Demanding weather conditions in recent times, both in North Norway and in Agder, have given the power supply challenges and show that security of electricity supply still needs to be given high priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1428	I would like to thank you for your answer. We agree to invest in environmentally friendly and renewable energy in the future, and we can have more alternatives, including: wave and tide power, small power plants, CO2-free gas power plants and wind power, to name a few. There are today between 90 and 100 applications for the establishment of wind farms in this country, corresponding to several thousand wind turbines. Several of these parks are planned to be built in Finnmark. I would like to warn against the rapid expansion of wind farms, and plans for possible future expansion need to be put in place for the sake of other societal interests such as: travel life, reindeer management, defence and endangered species, such as Hawthorn. Wind power can be a supplement in a network with extra capacity and normal operation, but we have to see the reality of the eyes. In fault situations, strong wind and cold, as we have in Finnmark, the windmills stop and are thus out of operation when they are most needed. That was the situation on the Sea Owl wind farm under Narve. While Narve was in the north, it was then said not to produce wind power. Because wind farms occupy much more capacity in the network than they use, the establishment of wind farms in Finnmark will make bad things worse in an already undersized network. How will the Government deal with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1440	What's the current situation, is that we have a force balance that we have to deal with and try to improve. This can be done by increasing production capacity. I take note of the views the representative refers to regarding wind power, and will bring them to the attention of the person concerned. As far as the network is concerned, we are very aware of the need for investment in the network, and we will follow up on those needs in a way that ensures security of supply for the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1447	Thank you also for this answer. Finnmark, as I said, has very serious problems with security of supply of electricity, and there is a need to increase production capacity. Finnmark is a precursor of environmentally friendly and alternative technologies, which can have positive environmental impacts far beyond the borders of the country. The world's first tidal power plant has been developed in Hammerfest, and a gas power plant with CO2 handling is also under development in Hammerfest today. Such environmentally sound projects need support and assistance if they are to be commercialised. Will the Council of State give these projects the same favourable financial support that wind farms receive through Enova?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1457	Once again, the view I want to take with me. I just want to remind you of and refer you to the areas of activity that the Government has identified in the Soria Moria Declaration. Such an area is for example: new renewable energy. The way in which the financial instruments for the realisation of different projects are to be managed, we need to get back into ordinary budgetary work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1475	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time. Question 12 is from the representative Finn Martin Vallersnes to the Minister for Food and Trade. The questioner is not present in the Chamber, so we will proceed to question 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1485	‘In Riksrevisions Document No. 3:10 it appears that the last few years’ efforts to simplify legislation and reduce the burden on business form have not been particularly successful. [[2004-2005]] Although 2005 figures show an improvement, business continues to spend a lot of time reporting to the public. Will the Council of State take special responsibility for strengthening efforts to reduce the burden of business forms?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1492	The Government is committed to facilitating stable, predictable and competitive business framework conditions. We therefore have great ambitions for the work on regulation simplification and reduction of the form load. It is important to be aware that the form load is only part of business’s regulatory costs and that it needs to be facilitated on a broad front. Simplification work can never be said to be done. As long as new legislation is put in place, we must ensure that we do not create unnecessary new burdens for business. The government is working along three main lines to simplify and facilitate business: 1st@item: inlistbox We will focus on further development of the Altin portal to provide companies with good electronic services.2. We will work actively to ensure that the legal process contains good investigations of the impact on business, so that we, as politicians, know the consequences of what we adopt.3. In addition, we will continue to work to identify where the potential for cost reduction for businesses is greatest. This will make it easier for us to implement further simplification measures that are designed for businesses. In particular, it is important to focus on the further development of electronic reporting to the public. In this work, the Altin portal is central. A total of 123 forms can currently be reported through Altin. The Government will work to ensure that the service will become the business portal for all public services during 2008. Here enterprises must be able to find pre-filled forms and all required forms must be able to be submitted through the ALTINN. It is an objective that one and the same information should only be reported once. Other types of electronic services shall also be available through the Altinn portal, for example: legislative information and electronic application forms and the possibility of replies to applications. I assume that the figures for 2005 to which the representative of Fostervold refers relate to the recently submitted data from the Task Register. The figures show that in 2005 Norwegian industry spent 580 fewer years in completing the State schema than in the previous year. When the total load is about 5000 annual works, this is a very good result. Most of the decline in 2005 is due precisely to the transition to electronic reporting and shows that the investment on the Altin was and is correct – and, not least, it is important. I believe that the figures also promise well for the continuation of the simplification work that is being done, and the efforts made by the Government in this area. I can promise the representative Fostervold that the Government has great ambitions as to what we will achieve in getting to ‘Simplify Norway’. I would also like to make further comments tomorrow in the Grand Duchy on the position of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee on the report by the National Audit Office to which the representative refers.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1527	I thank you for your answer. I am very pleased that the Council of State places emphasis on Altin. The progress party had so far a proposal to increase the bet there, but I take the signals from the Council of State that this will also be done by the Government. The report shows that very much of what is being reported is actually already in state archives. It is therefore important to have a simplification and also to require the ministries to use information that already exists. I look with excitement until tomorrow, when the Council of State will present the report. At the same time, the report shows that in some departments the simplification process requested by Stortinget is not fully anchored. Will the Council of State take responsibility for the importance of the simplification process by all departments?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1538	First of all, this government is concerned that business should spend as much time as possible for value creation. At the same time, it is important to be realistic, because society needs some information from business. But the most important thing that Fostervold's representative points to is that we have to learn to ask just once. It's supposed to be the governing thing. Then the question is whether we should help anchor this kind of work in all the ministries. And then the answer to the question is yes, we will spend time and forces on this work, which is so incredibly important to business and to value creation in the country, being anchored as widely as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1545	I'm just becoming more and more optimistic on behalf of the companies in the country. At the same time, Altinn also provides an opportunity for dialogue back to business, where you can obtain information that you can use in your business. So my last question to the Council of State is, will the Council of State go ahead to work to get the companies to get information from Altin?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1552	There is a problem I must be allowed to come back to when I review the systems in a broader way. But with regard to what has been at the heart of the question and the challenges we are facing to make business as competitive as possible, it turns out that the bet that has been made through Altin is right. And then we're going to spend time in the future developing this good tool, which, in turn, is going to strengthen and contribute to the further creation of value in business.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1557	Now Finn Martin Vallersnes has come and is asked a question to Minister of Development Erik Solheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1564	Thank you, President, for your goodwill. I understand that I have to put myself into hard training to provide these times a little faster, so I do not abuse the time of the Council of State in the future. My question to the Minister for Development is: ‘The government is committed to the 2006 state budget to cut the World Bank appropriations, which are clearly the world’s largest and most important player in the field of development. The cuts will affect areas such as education, the environment and industrial development in developing countries. Is this clear and unfounded down-priority related to the experience of the Council of State in the work of the World Bank in Sri Lanka?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1575	I think there is a need for very strict penalties for bigots representatives who come too late for the questions! Spooky side: No, there's no connection between our principal policy regarding the World Bank and the experience of Sri Lanka. On the contrary, the World Bank’s country director for Sri Lanka is almost to be a good friend. He has been one of the best supporters of the peace process all along, and the World Bank, as I can judge, has played a very constructive and positive role in Sri Lanka. I have nothing whatsoever to criticize the World Bank's efforts for there. Our starting point for reducing the World Bank's appropriations is two-sided. One is the desire to do more in the United Nations. Norway as a small country is dependent on an international legal order. We depend on a well-organized world. It is only the UN that can provide the moral basis for conventions in the world and that can decisively determine the use of violence, and it is the UN that must coordinate aid efforts at country level. There are a lot of reasons why the UN needs to be strengthened. And if you want to strengthen the UN, you need to do more in other areas. The second reason we reduced something on the World Bank is that we feel that for a long time the World Bank was very closely linked to what can be called the neoliberal international agenda, linked to the so-called Washington Consensus, which often left completely unreasonable demands on individual countries for the privatisation of state activities, or on economic measures that hit the poorest part of the population and not the middle class and the more prosperous. Now the World Bank says that they have changed policies in most of these areas, and that the World Bank today does not make any demands on beneficiary countries about what might be called ideological privatisation. The government will now take a closer look at these issues, look at the World Bank’s programmes and see what is right and wrong about them. Finally, I just want to say that, of course, the questioner is quite right in saying that the World Bank is one of the most central development actors internationally. There's not a bunch of disagreement about that question. This is precisely why Norway, no matter what we decide for future allocations to the World Bank, will also do what we can to influence the World Bank in the most constructive way possible. I've already had two meetings with Paul Wolfowitz, the president of the World Bank, to make the Norwegian view known. We will also try to influence the World Bank through specific allocations to areas we think are particularly important, such as women's issues and environmental issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1593	I thank you for your answer. However, I have to believe that the important thing when you put Norwegian resources into areas like education, the environment and industrial development, is to do what you think you can get the most back on the use of resources. We have seen a part of the evaluation of the results, both in the United Nations system and in the World Bank, and I think it is beyond doubt that there is more systematic and further progress in the evaluation of performance targets in the context of the World Bank. So what makes the government think that the funds will be better used in the United Nations than in the World Bank in these specific areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1600	When it comes to whether money in a given country is best spent through the World Bank or through the UN system, I think it will always require a concrete assessment in each country. It will even be about as banal matters as the competence of the delegates from the World Bank, or those from the United Nations. It will be a series of such questions, which are too detailed to address here. Our starting point is that it is not about either the World Bank or the United Nations, but about a weight shift towards the United Nations, because Norway, based on foreign policy conditions in Norway and also the need for coordination in the world, sees no alternative to the United Nations. It is the UN that has to coordinate aid at country level. It is the UN that can also provide most of the international policy coordination in relation to assistance. Assistance is politics. We can't disconnect it from these questions. Then, too, the World Bank's actual action on issues such as privatisation comes high on our agenda, and we will now go into and see what are the realities. If the World Bank contributes to this on a large scale, it will have consequences for the Norwegian programmes. Whether the World Bank is right to say that this has been terminated, this is a historical policy that we no longer stand for, is nothing better than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1605	Since Wolfensohn became president in the 1990s, there is a fairly widespread perception that policy changes in the bank have been very much in the direction of becoming Powery Reduction-oriented. It seems that Wolfowitz very much follows up that policy line from its predecessor. Can we expect an assessment of where to get the best results and have the best management quality for the funds allocated, before the Government goes on with the line they have now set up, by possibly further transferring resources from the world banking system to the UN? Obviously, there are a lot of things to do about the quality of administration in the United Nations as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1610	About the very last thing, there's no disagreement between the questioner and me. Of course, we are always going to put a heavy pressure on the United Nations and its specialized agencies to improve the efficiency of business, for better money management, for better consistency between overall policy objectives, such as: Peace in a country, which is crucial, and the use of money. This type of criterion will apply to both the World Bank and the United Nations. I have just sent a letter to the leading UN Special Organisations on Norwegian contributions for next year, attached very clearly to what they will meet Norwegian requirements and expectations, and of course with the clear underlying assumption that if they do not meet these requirements, they will have to count on reduced appropriations from Norway in the future. The same thing will apply to the World Bank. But before drawing conclusions in this area, we will address the issue of whether it is right that the World Bank contributes to promoting privatisation and other parts of a policy that this government does not have.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1617	So we go to question 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1624	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘In the last few weeks, there have been several headlines in the media about the district rights of seed funds. Among other things, it is claimed that the funds can only be half as large as planned, and that there will be less money for establishment and innovation. There are also doubts as to whether the district industry in all parts of the country will be able to benefit from the funds, and as to when private capital will be in place. How will the Council of State make sure that these funds are an effective tool for businesses across the whole of Norway as soon as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1633	The establishment of the regional and national seed schemes is of the highest priority in the ministry. there has been no change in the amounts allocated for the purpose; The country-wide framework remains at 667 million. kr. The regional aid scheme has a framework of 700 million. kr. My ambition is that the seed funds adopted should be operational by the end of 2006. I believe we're going to achieve this goal. The work on setting up the first is already in progress in Bodø. I took the initiative to start this process shortly after I joined. Furthermore, the work of finding the manager of the fund in Tromsø is under way. The funds are based on an interaction between private investors and the public. Progress will therefore largely depend on the interest of private investors. The Ministry has met with potential administrators of the district management system. The purpose of the meeting was to inform about the status and get views. This dialog will continue. In order to make the scheme more attractive to investors, we have been in dialogue with the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA. By 25 January we sent a letter to ESA on this issue. I hope for a good solution for the nationwide funds by the end of the first quarter. ESA has signaled a little more scepticism as to whether they can accept our views on the district funds. For the district-oriented seed funds in South Norway, this is a special challenge. A new territorial policy scope shall be adopted. This area will enter into force on 1 January 2007. This could have an impact on investors’ willingness to enter into the arrangement. Within the limits laid down, I will work for the whole of District Norway to be covered.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1646	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. What has updated this issue is what happened just before Christmas, when the Council of State agreed to add one of the three district funds to Tromsø. When one of them knows that it's already decided that one should be in Namsos and one in Bodø, there's only one fund left to cover all the district municipalities in South Norway. What's a lot of fear, and that's the fear I'm trying to measure here, is that one might not be able to get a real discovery of business in the whole of District South Norway. We know from previous experience from similar funds that a very large proportion of the investments happen in physical proximity to this, and that's the bond I think we're forced to try to break a little bit in this case as well. So my follow-up question is, can the Council of State help us get a slightly wider area, where these funds become networks in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1655	I can assure the representative that I will do my utmost to achieve the objectives pointed out here, within the framework that we are allocated from ESA, and within the regulatory framework and scope that the EU will decide on in terms of rural policy areas. It is quite clear that we are facing the challenges of the last issue, and that is access to private capital. I am well aware that closeness to the area of investment is important, and I will look into how, by designing the structure of these funds, this aspect of access to private capital can also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1662	I thank you again for your answer. The Council of State was in its first response to another issue that I mentioned in the question, and which he was also a little bit concerned about now, simply the access to private capital. Here the work that is going on both in Bodø and Tromsø was made easy. Government doesn't mean what's going on in the Namsos area. Is the necessary capital in place? Does he see the possibility that one might be able to do this, or could it cause problems, especially in relation to the district funds? I assume that it would be easy to fill up the nationwide funds with private capital, but the question is, can there be a few problems here? Does the Council of State see any difficulty in doing this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1669	I guess I don't see so many problems related to the district schemes, but I see a considerable amount of challenges, and they're just related to access to private capital. There are challenges that I want to work actively with, and that relate to what kind of structure we choose from the funds. The representative points to the challenges we face in the Namsos area. I am aware that there is work going on in other parts of the West, as part of Central Norway. There are interesting discussions going on, and initiatives are being taken that make me quite sure that we will be able to achieve the objectives of establishing the rural seed funds that meet the need for early stage capital, within the ambitions that I suppose we have in common.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1698	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1705	This question, from the representative Trond Helleland to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade on behalf of the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1708	I want to ask the following questions: ‘Do the Council of State, in view of the positive attitude of several airlines, now want to establish a website with cancellation figures?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1715	As I understand the question from the representative of Greece, the aim is to establish a website with the number of cancellations that passengers should be able to take care of their own interests in a better way than is the case today. Even I am unsure whether statistics on cancellations are a suitable tool to ensure good services for passengers. Should the statistics have any value, it should show how often a flight is cancelled for reasons over which the airline itself has control and can therefore do something. If the reason lies in weather conditions, in relation to air traffic services, or in the lack of space in the airspace or at airports abroad, there is no reason to make this a weakness in the way the air carrier operates its operations. And even though a cancellation is actually due to conditions over which the airline has control, we don't always have a guarantee that the reason the company itself reports is the real reason. I believe that it is better to strengthen the enforcement of passenger rights. I would therefore encourage all passengers who are subject to cancellation, to complain to the Board of Appeal for scheduled flights or to the Air Traffic Authority if they do not receive the compensation they are entitled to in the event of cancellation. If the carrier fails to pay compensation, the carrier must show the complaint that the cancellation is due to ‘extraordinary circumstances which could not have been avoided even if all reasonable measures had been taken’. At the same time, this requirement means that companies that prove that they have done what was required cannot be criticized for having misled passengers into buying a ticket that they would not otherwise have purchased. In a short time, I will send out a proposal that will further strengthen the complaint mechanism by laying the foundation for a new and general complaint procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1726	I thank you for your answer. It is a good thing that it is the Minister of Industry who answers this when the Minister of Transport is not present, because we have seen in the last few months that there has been a turbulent situation in aviation, first with Avinor, with many unexplained cases of disease, and then the epidemic has spread to SAS pilots. But at the same time, we have seen that it has been focused on SAS, among other things. had very many cancellations on a particular route, between Oslo and Bergen. I think it would be necessary and useful for passengers, but also in relation to the media, to have available information. Then the minister realizes that it is not always certain that it will be the real reasons that will be laid out. It will then allow the press and others to look into the seams, and I see no problem with it if it should be such a side that was outside. Are there legal or legal reasons why the Council of State does not want such a page?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1731	I have no objection to the airlines themselves taking the initiative to create good web pages on cancellations. I am very aware that the cancellations that have happened, and the unforeseeableness that has been in recent times in air traffic, have many unfortunate aspects. It has particularly unfortunate aspects relating to business and the cost to business. However, the important thing is that passengers have their rights strengthened connected to that type of website, i.e. consumers/passengers come out better of what is related to cancellations than is the case today. This in turn will give the airlines the incentive to drop cancellations made for financial reasons, because there is a bill to be paid afterwards. But I take with me the views that the representative of Greece here refers to, and will follow it up with the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1736	I am in favour of the measures announced to strengthen passenger rights, of course. It's the whole purpose of the question, too, to give passengers even better information and better rights. This is just a tab – we have promoted a Document No. Eight proposals that go right on this. The council says that he is positive if the airlines do this themselves, and both SAS and Norwegian have said that they could well imagine a website that published these cancellations and the reason for them etc. Could it be an idea that the Council of State brought these ideas to the other Council of State, which then brought them on to Avinor? For Avinor, there is already today a page that tells us about the departures, delays, etc., and then it could be a simple matter to hang on the cancellations too?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1741	I will assure the representative of Greece that all the views expressed here will be passed on to the Minister for Transport, and all good ideas and advice to improve the situation will be accepted and then addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1750	This question, from the representative Gunn Berit Gjerde to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade on behalf of the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1753	‘We have recently experienced major problems with air traffic. Very many have either been very late or have had to cancel their journeys. This has greatly affected ordinary people and has caused great losses both for the tourism industry and the rest of our business. This shows that air traffic is very vulnerable to actions related to labour and wage conflicts. What will the Council of State do to ensure that, in the future, work conflicts in airlines cannot paralyze the entire Norwegian society in this way?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1760	I fully agree with the representative, Mr. Gerde, that the conflict we have seen in SAS Braathens in recent times has had very unfortunate consequences for both private and business. At the same time, it is an important principle in social life that the parties themselves have the right and not least the obligation to settle between themselves, without direct political interference. In the case of a pay dispute, the Government may, in very special cases, propose a law on compulsory payroll, in which case major interests shall be at stake. In any case, it requires a concrete assessment of the circumstances of the individual case. I expect the aviation partners to be conscious of their responsibilities, so that we avoid situations like those we've seen in recent times, during spring's wage negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1767	Would it mean that there would be no pressure on the large airline SAS Braatens to sort this out or to avoid this in the future? I also have a question that goes on the sections where there is no competition. Ålesund-Oslo, where the case is that when such conflicts occur, it is not possible to rebook to another company. The government intends to stimulate other airlines to get back on track there, for example. in the case of air charges, etc. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1774	The main principle of the type of issues raised here by the representative is that the social partners themselves have the right and the duty to settle between themselves, without political interference. With regard to whether to stimulate increased competition in the air, there are separate systems and systems, and I will necessarily have to come back to that. I do not intend, on my part, to give special leadership to SAS Braathens in relation to future discussions in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1781	I did not ask for one to put special pressure on SAS Braathens when it applies, for example. route Ålesund-Oslo. I asked the government to look at special incentives to make other companies compete on the same route.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1786	At this stage, no initiative has been taken to initiate several companies to operate different routes in Norway. It's a question we might have to come back to when it becomes relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1802	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1809	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘It is good that the promise of knowledge should be implemented from the autumn of 2006. At the same time, there is doubt as to whether teachers and schools have received clear information on what the promise of knowledge means, what it involves, and what requirements and opportunities it provides for each teacher and school. Governments have expressed doubts about the essential aspects of the content of the reform, and it has raised concerns. Does the Council of State, in the light of notified changes, mean that school owners, schools and teachers are well enough prepared for the challenges and opportunities of the Knowledge Lift?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1818	The basis for the Government's education policy is laid down in the common platform developed on Soria Moria. It says: ‘The Government will continue and strengthen the main lines of the Knowledge Lift.’ At the same time, changes or reassessments have been notified in some areas. One of the first things I did as a councillor was to tell them that I would initially continue the promise of knowledge. Because questions had been asked about the introduction of the reform in secondary education, I called representatives of the organisations, the social partners and the school owners for information and discussion. I decided, among other things: on the basis of the planned implementation. Therefore, on 23 November 2005, the following ‘Facts on the promise of knowledge’ was published on the Odin website of the Ministry: The reform will be implemented from the autumn of 2006, in both primary and secondary education. The requirements for general study competence are maintained as they stand today. For this reason, students who know that they want to be able to study must choose educational programmes to do so when they begin secondary school in 2006–07.Training in another foreign language at the youth level shall not be mandatory. Students shall be able to choose between Norwegian, English or Sami as an alternative to the other foreign language. Students shall be assessed in the foreign language or in the alternative chosen. The character shall be relevant to the admission to secondary education. Further information on the new structure of higher education and the new concepts compared to today's terminology is also available online. In order to ensure information for students applying for admission to secondary education, the website www.vilbli.no has been established. Here, the county councils, in cooperation with the Education Directorate, have developed information on everything that is worth knowing for those seeking admission to higher education. Special information for advisers and career guidance staff is also available on the same website. As regards support and guidance, I would also mention that in the current year, 375 million have been allocated. to develop the skills of teachers, school leaders and trainers in vocational training to ensure that they are well prepared to implement a new curriculum. In line with the Soria Moria platform, the Government wants students and apprentices to develop a broader basic competence. This means that the educational plaque will be expanded and reworked with a Part II of the curriculum. It will soon be put to the consultation and will be set by the end of May 2006. The knowledge gap with the Master’s Programme for Primary and Secondary Education established in August 2005 will remain unchanged. The only change that has direct implications for the coming school years is that another foreign language is no longer mandatory and that three new subjects are introduced, deepening in Norwegian, English or Sami. The curriculum in another foreign language from August 2005 will not be changed, but new curricula will be available for the three new subjects in May/June 2006. I will ensure that the consultation to be carried out on the draft of these plans, so that they can best be prepared to be put into service in the autumn of 2006. In the case of the other curricula to be used in secondary education in the autumn of 2006 at Vg1, the curricula of vocational training programmes are defined by the Directorate of Education per. 16 January 2006. The syllabus for the remaining general education in primary and secondary education shall be determined by the Ministry as planned by the end of 2006. This applies to the curriculum of higher education at primary school and to curricula for religion and ethics, geography, history and social sciences for secondary education. In addition, curricula to be applied to deaf and severely hard-to-hearing will be established within the same time frame. These are curricula in Norwegian, Norwegian, sign language, English, drama and rhythm. Information and communication with the sector and society are an essential element in the implementation of the reform, for which both the Ministry and the Directorate-General for Education use the network actively as information and communication tools. Information on the reform is therefore provided continuously on the Ministry’s website on the promise of knowledge and on the Directorate-General for Education’s websites. In the near future, I will also send out a circular to the sector on the professional and hourly distribution of initial training and in the other foreign language. I hope, on this basis, that school owners, schools, teachers and students will be able to be well prepared for the challenges and opportunities of the Knowledge Lift.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1857	It is reassuring to hear that the Department attaches great importance to information and competence to teachers, school owners and all those involved. The signals Djupedal gave earlier have created uncertainty. These are the signals I have received from at least a number of teams. This information is very difficult, and it's not easy to reach everyone. We can agree on that. I would like to pay tribute to the fact that the Knowledge promise is being carried out as planned. I think that's very important. It's about setting standards for learning in school. I went to high school myself in 1975, and then we had three foreign languages in school. But I'm recording signals that, among other things, This, with foreign languages, has immediately led to a reduction in the focus on the subject, both in terms of practical orientation and in terms of stimulating new learning and skills for teachers. I hope the Minister of Knowledge will take that on board.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1864	There was no uncertainty about the introduction of the Knowledge Lift. The raising of knowledge is a major reform which requires cooperation with the county council, the school owner, the Education Directorate and not least with the department. It's very important to get information to teachers and parents. Here I must allow myself to say that I am in a double position, because I am the father of a tenth grader who is going to apply for secondary school. That way, I get the information from a parent place, which reaches us. It has made me particularly concerned with this with the vigilance required. As far as I can understand, there is no created uncertainty about this. But we in the ministry and other actors do what we can to make sure that youth and family can make choices they're sure are right. On these websites that I referred to, it is now full of information. In the case of other foreign languages in particular, for which the questioner asks questions, there are no changes to this except that it is not mandatory. The practical approach is as follows: The curricula and the process go as planned. We give the youth the opportunity to choose something more than just one foreign language, either depression in English, Sami or Norwegian, which, in the opinion of our government, is a strength for the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1871	We hope that it will be a deepening – and not support education. For a immersion makes quite great demands on the one who takes it. The previous government had transparency about the results in Norwegian school, and the results show that there are significant challenges. They have to be taken seriously. The school is our common future, and it forms the basis for the welfare that Norway will be able to maintain and create in the future. That's why it's important to focus on it. I am very pleased that the Knowledge promise will be carried out as planned. I'm asking the Department to pay attention to providing information to everyone. It's a complicated job, and I'm going with a lot of interest and vigilance if you reach those goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1880	I would like to take that call to heart. We're going to do what we can to get the information out. But the promise of knowledge in its entirety represents extensive changes in the school. I also very much agree that knowledge is one of the most important things. And we as administrators of the administration of knowledge should of course do what we can in that way. We also rely on the Storting – and not least the opposition in Stortinget – to convey what is actually the situation, and not contribute to creating uncertainty. The second foreign language goes just as planned. Anyone who wants it can get a different foreign language. Then a few depressions in English, Norwegian or Sami, if they want to. However, these are also subjects that will be demanding, which are to be assessed by character and are applicable for admission to higher education. So we're expanding the spectrum a little bit. All young people who want a foreign language are given a chance to do so. It's the only actual change in the original plans, which concerns school start-ups to the harvest. The other changes, which are relatively modest if you think about the extent of this reform, will continually come back to you. In this way, I would like to invite the opposition — right too — to participate in this knowledge promise for Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1887	Questions 21 and 22 have been answered earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1894	‘Ethnic minorities are underrepresented among the children. It is important that the co-judgment and horizontal selections are broadly structured in terms of both. gender, age, ethnicity and social background. NOU 2002:11 discusses different ways of ensuring a broader composition of co-judgment and horizontal selections than at present. How will the Council of State ensure more ethnic minorities in the Colleges?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1901	I fully agree with the representative of the Syversen that there are too few people with minority backgrounds among fellow judges and law-enforcement members. I think it is nice that this theme is now being raised into the Storting Question Time. In the autumn of 2005, a study was carried out by the Central Statistical Office of the Ministry of Justice. The survey showed that in the current sample of co-judges and horizontal members, i.e. those selected for the period 2004 to 2008 have 2.8 pst. immigrant background, and only 1 pst. has a background from outside Europe and North America. This is a significantly lower proportion than the immigrant tip, as the questioner points out, among the population. We'll try to do something about that. I am committed to ensuring that immigrants can contribute their resources to society, not least in court. The courts are an important pillar of Norwegian society, and the participation of immigrants is essential to the general confidence in the judiciary. Many decisions to be made would be much better if they were made by people who are representatively picked. The electoral system for co-judges and law-enforcement members was discussed in NOU 2002: 11, ‘Judged by equals’. As the representative points out, the investigation assesses different methods of ensuring a broader set of co-judgment and horizontal selections, not only in terms of ethnic background, but also in terms of age, economy, social and cultural background. The investigation was in consultation for a while. The Ministry of Justice is now working on a proposition in which we evaluate the rules for the election of co-judges and team members, and the rules for their withdrawal, for each case. One of the most important questions we're looking at is how we're going to get a broader set of samples. Among the questions we then have to consider is whether the choice of co-optimists and law-enforcement members is still to be made by the local councils – and I believe that there are good reasons for this – how the election is to be conducted, when the election is to be made, how many are to be chosen, what requirements are to be made for age distribution and access to re-election, and what requirements are to be made to the individual co-judgment and the individual member of the law regarding the fitness, conduct, position, etc. The Ministry's aim is to promote a proposal for the Storting in the light of the proposals in the investigation during 2006, hopefully already in the first six months. It gives us ample opportunity to look at precisely the mechanisms that the representative is calling for.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1914	I thank you for a positive answer, not least because it seems that the proposition can be promoted as quickly as the Council of State now expresses. One of the proposals contained in the NOU is to change the way you appoint the samples, i.e. by using the population registers. Now I understood the Council of State that he might want to keep today's arrangement that the local government appoints the members. But is the Council of State alien to the use of population registers as an extraction method to get a broader basis? Nevertheless, it will not prevent the municipal councils from being the seventh and the last to appoint the members to become laypersons.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1921	I want to say that we are still open in relation to the conclusion – we have not yet concluded on the proposition to come – and what process we are going to have around the selection process. Today, the municipalities make lists, and the courts draw from the list. Nevertheless, as I also said in the answer, I am of the opinion that there are very good reasons why the local government should still have that task – a little based on how we want to organise the administration, and that we actually want important tasks to be done locally. But I also think that it has its advantages in terms of any criteria that we have to set for the selection in terms of representation, and that randomness in terms of withdrawal from the population register, in many cases could mean that we cannot be guaranteed representativeness. But we're going to go into this openly, and I think that the representative and the undersigned just have the same intentions in relation to what final sum we're going to get, and that we're going to get better representativeness. That is the most important thing in this process, and I would like to welcome a debate on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1930	In the same way – I get to say then!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1939	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘A Norwegian fishing transport operation recently ran for 22 tonnes of fish while waiting to be unloaded in Naples. The driver received notice of the incident before he was forced out of three armed men, but it went eight hours before the Italian police responded. How can the Council of State help prevent this from happening again?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1953	Let me first stress that I share the representative's concern about the safety of drivers of fishing transports to Italy. This type of rail has been carried out in part in a brutal manner to the drivers who have been hit, and I am therefore seriously aware that a new round of Norwegian fishing transport has been carried out in Italy. I have submitted the question to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which through our embassy in Rome has provided a detailed explanation of the details of this matter. There I have been informed that the Norwegian fishing transport traffic in Naples on 21 December 2005 is the first catch of a Norwegian fishing transport in Italy following the implementation of comprehensive measures in 2002 and 2003 to protect Norwegian fishing transport. Among other things, the car combinations received satellite surveillance, while establishing cooperation procedures with the Italian police. The experience of this cooperation has so far been very good. The Italian police investigation has also produced results, and a number of arrests were carried out in the Naples area in the spring of 2005. The Italian police claim through this to have broken down the organisation that was behind the former ranes. During the meeting in December 2005, it appears that the agreed cooperation procedures did not work as intended. Our embassy in Rome therefore had a meeting with the Italian authorities on 26 January to reveal what was going on, and to discuss how to avoid failure in the future. The Italian police confirmed here that the cooperation procedures are still in place and will be followed by possible future controls. During the meeting in December, there was a failure on both sides, and it is now under the follow-up of the parties to prevent recurrence. Let me also tell you in a brackets that it is clear that it was much shorter before the Italian police responded, than what was reported in Norwegian media, to which the representative Løvik referred. It is primarily through close operational cooperation between the parties involved — primarily the carriers, importers and the Italian police — that it could be prevented from resuming Norwegian fishing operations in the future. Advanced technologies have been used with good results and the need for further safeguards will be assessed on an ongoing basis. The Norwegian authorities will assist the parties in their contacts with the Italian authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1966	I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for a good and thorough answer. It is mainly about drivers who are exposed to a very difficult situation, but it is also about market access that is hindered by what has happened. It must also be said that in the name of the fight there were very strong allegations about Italian police, among other things. by the Transport Workers' Confederation. What the Minister of Justice is now saying is happy – that the cooperation routines seem to have worked well in many ways over the last three to four years after the wave of raids we had, and also that the Italian police have managed to catch up with some of these gangs who have been involved, not only when it comes to fishing, but also when it comes to other things. But what the Minister of Justice says is that the routine is here, but that it has our failure on both sides. And then my question is: What can be done from the Norwegian side to prevent future failures in these procedures, as the Minister of Justice now says it has also been from the Norwegian side?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1975	I think the most important thing we can do is just go into the individual cases we're now facing, and where there's a failure. As I explained in the answer, I believe that the authorities have put themselves reasonably well into this matter, including: through the meeting that was initiated by our embassy in Rome, and that you actually follow up when such a failure occurs. It's completely meaningless, as the representative says, if we're going to make legislation and cooperation procedures without them being followed up. It's a responsibility on both sides. That is also the background that I believe we should have increased focus on this, also in the future. When such serious incidents happen, we have to make sure that people feel that they are getting the assistance they need. It will be one of the most important preventative we can have, because quick response, which also applies to crime here in Norway, is one of the best things we can do to prevent future criminal acts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1982	Again, thank you for your follow-up response. That's what I tried to do, as the Council of State said, that also from the Norwegian side there has been a failure in the follow-up to the procedures in this specific case. I don't know how much the Council of State will go into exactly this matter – but yet what is being done to the transport companies and the industry from the political authorities and from Norway? We know that there is widespread fear among both drivers and transport companies. It is also companies that have already said that they will consider stopping transporting these types of vehicles down to Italy because of the danger of what is happening. In addition to finding out what can be done concretely from the Norwegian side if there has been a failure here, as the Council of State says, one can go out with good information to the industry about what is being done. Because it is quite correct – and it is very pleasing – that after 2002 and 2003, this is the first case of such a bandit enterprise, at least I know.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e1991	I think the questioner is concerned about the most important thing now in the phase we're in in this kind of case, and that's information, even if they grip the carriers can do. Satellite surveillance is exciting crime prevention, but we also have other opportunities. One has also discussed the question of marking the goods, which is interesting. There, the Ministry of Justice will also play an active role in relation to industry, and we will look at appropriate instruments to improve our position also in relation to an industry that is exposed to this type of crime, but also to other types of crime. I would also like to point out another element in these cases – and I think it is commendable that such individual cases are brought into the Questionnaire – which shows how important it is that we have greater international cooperation between police officers. Our government has said that it is an objective that we should intensify police cooperation in Europe, and Norway must be involved. Just such incidents as this show the need for it, how important it is that we have dialogue, and that the information goes beyond the limits. I will contribute to that as Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2003	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘A report from TØI shows that the day-to-day security of the State’s rescue helicopter service appears to be highly socio-economic and could generate an annual economic gain of between 100 and 175 million. kr, in addition to a much improved and safer level of emergency for all five stations in Norway. Do the Council of State share TØI's conclusions and will the Council of State take the early initiative to become the first priority for rapid implementation for those bases that have not been present today?'
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2012	It is my clear objective to take care of and improve the Norwegian rescue helicopter service and in this connection work actively to put in place daily on-site as soon as possible. The 24-hour bystander reduces the response time from the alerting of the personnel until the helicopter is in the air to a minimum. The rescue professional gain of this upgrade of the rescue helicopter standby is to increase the possibility of saving more lives. Continuous bystander is a very high priority case for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2017	I would like to thank the Council of State for its answer, where he shares the conclusions expressed in the report relatively indebtedly. Today, in this area, we have some kind of Difference Norway, because it's just one of the five stations that have a security guard. We have a series of investigations and reports confirming TØI's conclusions. I would also like to point out that the Ministry of Health and Health, 51 weeks ago, received a report from the regional health companies that concluded similar in many ways, and concluded that, as a first priority in their conclusion, it is primarily on the bases in Bodø and Banak that one does not have reserve solutions there as in the rest of the country. What does it mean that the Council of State will work hard to put in place an improved preparedness?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2026	This means that the Council of State hopes that he will soon be able to see through to the fact that we will have a 24-hour presence. I've been a State Council for three months, and the Government has now been sitting for three months. After all, the previous government had a few years to phase in bystander. It would have been very important if you had done that. Because I share the representative's concern that there is a difference between south and north, that we do not have equal preparedness, and I also share the concern about how effective the rescue services actually are. But what I want to watch out for is that we go in and measure human life in money. This is important anyway. My motive is that more lives can be saved, and we can prevent harm both for families and people as it is certainly important to prevent. It's no secret that the government is now actively working towards the budgetary processes we're facing, and is looking at the opportunities to be present.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2031	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I totally agree that we're not going to calculate human lives in the number of dollars and cents. But it is definitely established that bystander is a win-win situation for society as a whole. The report received by the Ministry of Health and Health at the beginning of last year shows this very clearly. I therefore hope that the Council of State may be a little more precise as to what ambitions he has in this area, besides working hard. Can I interpret the Council of States so that he intends to submit to the Stortinget a timetable for when it is possible to phase in at the other rescue stations in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2038	This is, of course, largely about the budget and investment in order to prepare the structure for 24-hour continuum so that the crew, among other things, can attend. has a place to sleep. And then it's about increasing operating resources because it costs something more. That is why it is a budgetary question. I've learned that I should be careful to come to such a great conclusion, at least before the budgets have been submitted. But I would like to stress that the Government believes that this is an important field to bet on. That's why we have ambitions to be able to attend precisely at the bases that are being asked for, so that we not only get balanced differences, but get sufficient preparedness, among other things. in the north areas, as the Government has clearly said, must be a bet area and must also be followed up on the question of rescue and preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2047	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Recently, it appeared that the incumbent government did not intend to follow up the Bondevik II Government’s proposal for a re-examination of the ‘Western’ loss from 1981. They left behind this list, in the same way that they left behind after the ‘Evelopment Senior’, has a strong personal desire to clarify what happened 25 years ago. Is the Council of State willing to change its view and launch the review as planned?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2056	First of all, I'd like to say that here it's probably not really about changing your vision. I also believe that I have not stated that it is not appropriate to examine this defect. The problem in this case is, in my opinion, that there were no fresh funds available here from the previous government to start the work. So that's the way we have a job to do. The fishing vessel «Western» was listed on the way from Lovund to Myken in Northern Ireland on 6 February 1981. The loss was investigated by the Standing Committee of Inquiry into Certain Fishing Fleet Accidents in 1981-1982. The Ministry of Justice, on the basis of a request from the Supervisory and Constituent Committee of the Storting in the autumn of 2004, requested the Permanent Accident Commission for certain marine casualties to review and assess the available material, with a view to seeing whether there were grounds for resuming the investigations of the fishing vessel «Western». The Commission expressed its opinion in April 2005 and concluded that the uncertainty prevailing suggests that new studies should be considered. In the light of this, the Bondevik II Administration decided to appoint a special investigation commission to identify the circumstances surrounding the ‘Western’’s disappearance and to carry out the necessary investigations to identify the cause of the accident. However, as stated, funding was not put into the 2006 State budget to cover the expenditure related to the Commission’s work. I've noticed the commitment that, among other things, the widow after the skipper of the ‘Western’ and other survivors has been expelled in the matter. I see that there is a need to set up a new investigation commission to carry out further investigations on the vessel’s vessel’s loss on 6 February 1981. However, the creation of a new investigative commission will have budgetary implications. I will therefore return in an appropriate manner to Stortinget with the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2069	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I believe is positive. Nevertheless, it is a paradox that the survivors must fight such a battle as they are now doing. It was done in connection with “Utvik Senior”, and it is done here. There have also been other accidents in which individuals have had to stand upright and until those degrees have had to fight against a large state regime. I am surprised when the Council of State claims that there are no funds. It has recently been revealed that research has been carried out in Norway that has not fully met objectives — to put it mildly. The responsible department then found the means to set up an investigation commission that was going to start looking at this immediately. And then it's tempting for me to ask, is there any other motive behind this lack of enthusiasm at the Council of State to clarify what happened? Is it politically inconvenient to find the answer here – does the Workers' Party and the Government agree when it came to compensation in the context of the ‘Evelopment Senior’? Is it true that the bureaucracy in the department does not want this to be brought to light either – does the history of this matter equal?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2078	I think I'm just going to repeat parts of my answer. I said, "I see that there is a need to set up a new investigation commission to carry out further investigations on the fishing vessel's loss on February 6, 1981. So we see that there is a need for this. At the same time, we should take this so seriously that we also allow money to be used to investigate the loss. It is not so difficult to decide that a Commission should be set up. It is much worse to implement this in view of the issue of appropriations – but I am prepared to do so. I guess I can't really be more positive. I believe that the representative also asked an important supplementary question. Shall we leave behind after this kind of loss have to struggle with such struggles as they do here? I think the questioner obviously has a point: we shouldn't. We should look at the whole system for investigating the marine casualties. We have structural changes going on, and we want to get back to Stortinget with this in an appropriate way, for example. through the budgets. It might prevent just such situations where the relatives have to fight a lot of battles, but where you actually get good enough research from the first moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2087	I thank you again for a positive response from the Council of State. Also, "Scandinavian Star" sometimes looks like we're not quite done with it – maybe one of the worst disasters that's hit us in terms of shipwreck, if you can call it that in this case. For the survivors, I think it's about one thing: when. It is a fact that the Council of State here points out that there is no budgetary coverage now. Similarly, it is a fact that the Council of State represents the majority of this house. Thus, he has both the opportunity and the opportunity to come to Stortinget and to propose an additional allocation, in a staging proposition, in order to implement this. It is in itself a good thing that the Council of State did not find cover in the ordinary budget, but there will be a revised budget. There are also other occasions, such as the additional proposition that was promoted before Christmas, such as: had a moment that related to the coverage of the compensation in the context of ‘Edvik Senior’. So the possibilities exist. It is tempting to ask: When does the Council of State expect this investigation commission to be set up and can start its work?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2098	It's the government's ambition that this study should start as soon as we can. We are now looking at appropriate ways to get this commission of inquiry started. We have noticed the pressure in the matter. We also hear what the questioner says. I'll take it with me in the work we're doing in the department to get this study phased in.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2114	This question lapses, as the questioner has a history of disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2121	‘In the context of the reorganisation of civil justice, it has been important to preserve the civil character even if the new state law districts and municipal settlement councils are to be administered by the State of the Police Directorate. One of the main points has been to avoid criminalisation and police cases against the public. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the civil justice reform will continue to have the civil impact on the relevant bodies and types of action being dealt with here?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2128	The man has long traditions to perform tasks designated as civil justice on the ground plane. These are law-enforcement activities carried out at the level of the district courts, and include the function of civil servants, enforcement and indebtedness arrangements, the function of law-enforcement and some other civil acts. As of 1 January 2006, the civil justice tasks have been gathered in the police and civil servants' seats throughout the country, on the basis of a broad political compromise here in Stortinget, such as: the party of the respondent was a participant. The secretariat function of the settlement councils in the municipalities is included from the same point of time in the civil justice tasks of the establishment. The Conciliation Council is one of our general courts dealing with exclusively civil matters. The proceedings, both in the Conciliation Board and in the Civil Service Officer, will take place according to a completely different set of rules than police cases and will be dealt with thereafter. In order to examine and make visible the fact that the secretariat function is not a police task, it is also foreseen that the Conciliation Council should use its own papers and envelopes. For Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger there are also offices of convenience, which are established in accordance with the conditions of the Justice Committee in Innst. O. No 90 for 2003–2004 is directly placed under the Directorate of Police. In addition, a public office is set up under the police districts of the municipalities of Skedsmo, Tønsberg and Nøtterøy, Kristiansand, Sandnes, Tromsø and Karlsøy. These are offices that largely get a very civil touch. There was a broad consensus in the Storting on the transfer of these tasks to the Police and Len's Senate. An emphasis was placed on ensuring that the organisation of civil justice on the basic level is holistic and as similar as possible throughout the country, and that an organisational model is established to fit the country’s housing patterns. The majority supported a model where one continues the strong Lenin tradition in Norway and brings together civil justice on the basic level of the police, the so-called ‘police model’. The audience is used to addressing the gentleman, among others. in the case of enforcement, indebtedness, indebtedness or indebtedness, and will therefore not mark any change here. In addition, the tasks are carried out mainly by so-called civil servants, without police authority and without uniformity. Deputys of the Civil Service Unit of the Courts, municipally appointed secretaries of conciliation and principal witnesses, etc. which is transferred with the tasks, has a long experience of these types of tasks and will contribute to the maintenance of the civil character of which the respondent is concerned. The long and good experience of the police and officers' seats in these matters, the ability to distinguish between police and civil matters, the transfer of civil personnel from the municipalities, the fact that the four largest law enforcement offices exist as civilian units under the Police Directorate and the establishment of six other own law enforcement offices, makes me confident that the civil embodiment will be well maintained in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2143	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, but I am not completely reassured. When I mention this, it is actually because I have been made aware that parts of the correspondence with the audience will be marked by the police concept and the police logo. I do not think that is entirely in line with the need to preserve the civil character. I ask the Council of State if he will investigate this more carefully, because I have therefore received a different description of how this will appear in the dialogue with the audience.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2150	As I said in the answer, it is suggested that the Conciliation Board should use its own papers and envelopes. It sounds kind of banal, but it's not. I believe that the questioner has a very important point, precisely that the civil character is preserved when we are now implementing this reform. I'll bring with me that questioner takes up, and investigate once for what kind of face you have outside against the public. There's paperwork and it's just as important, so people don't feel like they're being credited from the police. It can feel uncomfortable. It's more comfortable to get a civil touch on the entire treatment. It's probably also important to get through some of the things you actually have to deal with, that they have a civil character. We have a long tradition in Norway to manage this. But I'm taking this video with me, and I'm going to do what I can to make sure that just the civil character doesn't get degraded, that you take some steps forward and maybe even get better than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2159	Once again, I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand so at the Council of State that he agrees that civil matters, for example. enforcement as a result of the fact that people in a difficult situation have not been able to pay their electricity bill or have incurred bank card debts, should not be influenced by ordinary police matters, but that in the future one must be able to take care of the mark that has been on the civil court. I just want an assurance that the Council of State shares what has been the premise of the Storting for the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2166	I can assure the questioner almost 100 percent about that. We agreed on that, too. It was like a very strong premise throughout the reform. And it is important, simply because these tasks seem – at least in some periods – to get quite a large amount of debt, related to some conflicts, and in many of the issues to be dealt with, some of the parties have already refused to have contact with the police. There's such a conflict in them, but we see that there's a possibility of a solution because they have a civil character. I'll help with that. The elements that the questioner addresses – insofar as the general aspect also makes us aware of the issue, and I think that is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2177	‘The left has been made aware that the rules for calculating maternity benefits may discriminate between the sexes. If a father becomes unemployed shortly after birth, the basis of leave will be calculated on the basis of the unemployment allowance, while in the same situation his mother will have his leave basis calculated on the basis of the 6 best of the 10 months prior to birth. Why does the danger not have equivalent rights?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2184	Let me begin by thanking the representative Skei Grande for addressing issues relating to fathers, mothers and care for children. I am concerned that we should have a code that encourages a lot of care from both parents whether or not the parents live together. We always have to be willing to ask questions about whether the scheme enumerates traditional gender roles and inhibits positive developments in this area. As far as the issue of Skei Grande is concerned, there is a basis for positive and desired discrimination against women. The general starting point is that birth grants are initially equivalent to previous income and, as a general rule, they are calculated on the basis of income during the month before the beginning of the birth grant period. Mother’s birth grant is calculated on the basis of her prenatal income. Father's birth grant is calculated on the basis of his income prior to his birth grant withdrawal. However, this applies to a special rule for women who are unemployed and who receive daily allowances before birth. For these women, the birth allowance shall be calculated on the basis of the income of the best six out of the 10 months before the social benefit period. This gives an opportunity to adjust the birth grant payments to what would have been the woman's normal income if she had not been unemployed or permitted during pregnancy. The reason is that getting a new job will often be difficult for pregnant women. In the preparatory work, it is underlined that the pregnant woman is in a special position because it would be almost impossible for her to get a job if she was unemployed or put on leave during pregnancy. This consideration does not apply in the same way to men who receive daily allowances prior to their period of benefits, and therefore the rule does not apply to men. Nor does the special rule apply to women who adopt.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2195	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I think that the Left and the Council of State have quite similar views about the entrance to this, and I also understand why those rules were made when they were created. But today we are facing other challenges related to this, and we are facing the challenge that fathers who want to take the bulk of the leave are suddenly fed off by less than if their mother has chosen to take the majority. I understand that there was a positive discrimination that was the starting point at the time. But my question to the Council of State is whether this should not be re-examined, because we are now in a different social situation with a different kind of fathers and a different kind of mothers.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2204	I would like to say that I very much agree with what Mr. Skei Grande says, and our starting point is that we are going to go in and look at our code and whether it is adapted to the time we are living in today. We've had very big changes in family patterns. We see the significance of a forced father's quota, and that it actually means a lot in relation to the care of our children. That also means that we have to look at all of our rules in a new way. What Mr. Skei Grande is dealing with today is one specific case. My answer is that we want a review, we're going to look at it, but I think it was right to give a proper reason why it's been like this. I believe it has been right that we have had the kind of special treatment for pregnant women that we have just had in this field. But we're going to have a review, and we're going to come back to it at a later stage, whether there's a need to make changes in relation to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2213	I thank the Council of State for the answer and attend that review, and we will have enough opportunity to discuss it later.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2222	‘In 2004 70,6 pst was used. by fathers of the 4 weeks' spring quota, but only 16.6 pst. of the men took out more than this. It seems that there has been a practice where fathers take 4 weeks of paper schooling, but women take the rest. Does the Council intend to take action to raise the proportion of men using extended leave, and in the event of what action does the Council of State wish to take?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2229	Let me start by thanking the representative, Sjøli, for raising a theme that we know many are concerned about, and as we know it will be much focused on in the time to come. I believe that as a society and as women and men, we have everything to do to make men take more care of their children in a life together, and also after a possible breakup. Now, fortunately, the situation is a little bit better than what Mr. Seeli claims in his article -- I've checked the numbers. The fathers are gradually taking out more paper issue. In 2004 it was 90 pst. of those who were entitled to a parental allowance, who use it. However, it is still the mothers who take the longest leave and who work most part-time. As the representative Sjøli points out, it is only 16-17 pst. of feathers with spring quota withdrawals exceeding the spring quota. There is therefore a real need to focus more on the health potential of fathers. It's important for a lot of reasons. I think that if we're going to get on with gender equality, we need to get to a development where fathers work less and are more with the children. Not least, this is important for the good of children. It is important in the interests of parents' ability to allocate their professional activity and care responsibilities, and not least in the interests of their fathers themselves. The parental quota has proved to be a very good system to ensure the withdrawal of birth money by fathers. Such a designated period is particularly important to help fathers also set limits on employers. Extending the spring quota will continue to be the most effective measure to increase the birth levy on fathers. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the Government will extend the Dad quota to 10 weeks in the form of an extension of the overall benefit period. The family quota is now five weeks old and extended to six for children born on 1 July 2006. When further enlargements will take place, it is necessary to decide in relation to our annual budgets. I want to give priority to this measure, but it is too early today to say what phase-in is due to the fact that it is a budgetary issue. Furthermore, I would like to take the initiative for a broad discussion, among other things. on men and care. I'll consider presenting my own big message on men and gender equality. Such a message will give the Storting an opportunity to discuss the human role in a new perspective. In such a perspective, of course, the care of their own children belongs to fathers.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2242	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think it is very positive that she is considering submitting a big message, and hope she not only assesses it, but that it is actually being done. I think it might be a good idea to have a broad debate on the new roles. I agree that an extended spring quota, such as the Co-operation Board also raised and expanded by two weeks, is a good tool. But I don't think the Council of State gave any new signals about other instruments. Right-wing believes that mother and father should be even more equal in relation to the right to birth grant. We only achieve that by strengthening the independent rights of fathers. It believes that the Right will help more people to take longer leave. Therefore, the right will introduce an autonomous right to income from birth for all fathers, regardless of their own activity before birth. It was a suggestion we had earlier. My question is: will the Council of State support such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2251	The government wants to equalise fathers and mothers in terms of both leave and maternity pay. I do not believe that there is any major political disagreement in the Stortinget today in this field. But the reason why we haven't achieved our goals completely is perhaps because in heavy budgets for many parties it has not been possible to vent this matter in the way that we may have had a political wish. I hope that we can get to a regulation that equates mother and father in a fully-fledged way. But we also have to realize that there is a huge cost side of putting equality in place – we have to be honest and say that. I hope that we can jointly do some priorities that I think will be right into a new era. We also see that the previous government, which was sitting for four years, was unable to vent this in the way that I know it was political intention to do. I would like to be pressured, because I believe what the representative is addressing is very important from the point of view of how care and how we look at our children should be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2258	I am very pleased that there are coming signals that the government too wants to strengthen these rights. Now it's like the Right and the other previous government parties had a proposal in the budget before Christmas to grant 225 million. kr for this purpose. It voted against the Labour Party and the other red-green parties. If they had supported this proposal and found room for 225 million. NOK 600 billion in a budget for such an important matter as we actually agree on, I think we'd been going a long way. Since it is now so clearly signaled that the Government wants to do something about this, my last question is close: will the Council of State ensure that this is included in the budget for 2007? I think this is one of the keys to more fathers taking extended maternity leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2265	As I said in my main reply, we cannot go out now, when we sit in the middle of negotiations on the budget, and say how the various measures are prioritised. There are a number of other debates that we could like to raise in connection with what the representative is asking about. It goes on the distribution of the total leave period, where we see that mother has the share she has. We know that there are different debates in several European countries about making changes to it. There is also a debate I think will be much stronger in Norway, because we see that we have a father generation that will be more at the barricades to get more time beyond a possible ten-week extension. I believe that this debate will come with full weight in the time to come. I also hope that we can have a close dialogue with the opposition in Stortingen about it, and that a message could help to bring forward some perspective in relation to the rights over the next ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2276	I would like to ask the Minister for Children and Gender Equality the following questions: ‘The size has decided that all first-time parents will be offered to participate in the course. This is now included in the new ‘Director of Health Station’, which was sent out by the Directorate for Social and Health. Governments have stated that preventive family protection is an unusually important field. At the same time, the government cut approx. Ten million. kr on co-operation measures in relation to the 2006 draft budget of the Bondevik II Government. What will the Council of State do to ensure that all first-time parents are offered a life course?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2285	It is true that the government of Stoltenberg did not choose to go for the increase in the budget that the Bondevik II government provided. We believe that it is very important that we now go through and look at the experience of all the community measures we have, which the state is gradually spending a lot of money on. After a pilot project was carried out in 2004, we saw that there were about 80 municipalities that arranged courses in 2005. Preliminary figures show that around 230 municipalities will organise courses during 2006. Each municipality arranges initially two courses. This means that many couples have had or will have the opportunity to participate in the course. We know that many of the courses have received a good reception around the country, both among the organisers and among the participants. However, an assessment of the benefits of good living must be carried out which has so far been conducted. When we spend so much money on an action, it is important for the Government that we also know how the measures work. I would also like to point out that it is in addition to good living! inter alia: there is a joint action grant scheme managed by the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family Affairs. The scheme was set up in 1994, and for 2006 it was granted over 6 million. kr to the scheme. This grant scheme is an important part of the prevention of family work. Through this scheme, the Directorate provides support for local life courses and allocates funds to development work in this area. Voluntary organisations, institutions and others competent in the field of co-operation may seek funding for life courses. These may be humanitarian or religious organisations, organisations in the health and social sector, associations, family protection offices or local authorities. We have a high divorce rate in Norway. This government wants to pursue an active policy to prevent a broken life. I would like to take the opportunity to also give some more general considerations about this. The representative of Molvær Grimstad and I share the concern for all the life breaks that are in Norway. Especially where there are children in the picture, we know that there are many families who have a difficult situation. It is therefore an objective to contribute to a social development in which we can prevent so many people from choosing to break up. I am in favour of a life course, but I do not want to reduce a complex issue such as a life break, only to whether or not the parents have been on a course. We also have to question whether there are other factors in our society that cause this development. I think, for example, that we have a lot to contribute through flexible working time arrangements for young children’s parents, enough kindergartens at a price that people can pay, and schemes that make fathers and mothers more equal in the family field. I think that's why it's important when we discuss this serious question, which is intimate, and which is sensitive to many, that we also take into account that there might be other things than that the state goes in and grants x the number of millions that can save the family situation in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2298	Thank you very much for your reply. I share the opinion of the Council of State when it comes to family challenges. There are many and complex reasons for the high number of life crimes. Life courses will not be able to solve all these challenges alone. It's a sensitive theme, and it can be very complicated. Those who go through a break in their lives, I think I can have it both tough and demanding. We're going to be very soft on that. But life courses are a great way to prevent a break in life. The evaluations that you have done so far give very positive feedback. All the government parties, both the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the UK, have agreed that these life courses for first-time parents will be a nationwide offer. So the working party has been united in the intention here on the house. That's why I think it's a pity that someone is now stopping, because it's been doing a lot of work to market this for the whole country. What is the background for stopping and waiting for an evaluation when the Labour Party has been involved and pulled up the guidelines?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2309	As I tried to explain in my answer, today there are many different forms of course. There are many different organisations and agencies that offer this to the population. I think it's important that we now take a review and see if we might do things another way. Can we do something to get into an earlier stage? There are many things we can go into and discuss when we get a review of the effect of the courses. This does not mean that the government's policy is that we do not want to invest in preventive life courses. We just want to take advantage of the opportunity to look a little bit critically at what we want out of the millions we actually allocate to what is the main purpose of these courses. It may well be that the answer will be very positive. Then, as the Council of State, I will do my utmost to increase the appropriations in the future. This is not about the government's political reluctance to invest in community action. There is a large amount of these measures in the budget we have at our disposal today, and as I said, we are going to carry out evaluations and get back to spending in the future budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2314	I thank the Council of State again. As the Council of State notes, many offer these courses. I hope that the government will continue in the future the shortage of supply, so that both private, voluntary and non-profit organisations and the public can contribute. There is a lot of work in the direction of health centres, and it is also very positive. I understand that the Council of State will evaluate this before making it nationwide. However, if one now receives a positive signal – there are many municipalities waiting for answers because they thought they would start this year – the Council of State would then be willing to consider providing more funds for this purpose, for example. in revised?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2323	First, I want to say that for us, it is important that we also take care of the competences of private institutions in this field. It is not that we are opposed to the private initiative and the private competence – to use such an expression – that exists in this field. When it comes to the last question, which is how we want to follow up, we have to get back to it. I think the representative knows that well after these years on Stortinget. I can't bring any budget leaks at that point right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2334	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture and the Church: ‘One of the most serious violent films of the time, ‘Cannibal Holocaust’, is now allowed in Norway after the Media Authority has decided to authorise the film. The Ministry of Culture and the Church has a governance dialogue with the Media Authority. What forms of violence do the Council of State consider to be contrary to Section 382 of the Penal Code, and what action will the Council of State take to ensure that very serious violent films such as this should not be allowed in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2343	As an expert body in this area, the media surveillance has carried out a thorough evaluation of the film in question against the existing legislation. Despite some brutal and unpleasant scenes, the experts agreed that the film does not conflict with the penal code § 382. I have full confidence that the supervision has the expertise and discretion necessary to carry out this assessment. The Penal Code § 382 prohibits gross acts of violence for entertainment purposes. The provision is a legal standard, whereby the limit of what is allowed will change over time, in line with the attitudes of the population towards such descriptions. Ultimately, it will be the courts that determine where the border is going, but daily it is the media surveillance that has to make these difficult assessments. I am not sure what the representative Molvær Grimstad means by referring to the governance dialogue between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Church and the Media, but I would like to stress that it is not the task of the Minister of Culture and the Church or the Department to assess the legality of concrete films or videograms. The film and video control is the only system we have with direct state preview of media. In this field, therefore, we should be very careful with political governance in individual matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2352	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer and ask questions about follow-up when it comes to this film, 'Cannibal Holocaust', which has been approved, a film that shows selections, amputations, ritual killings and extremely rough election descriptions, with a view to entertaining. When the State's media surveillance, based on the passing of time, has approved this, and believes that he will not be in violation of Section 382 of the Penal Code, does the Council of State see a development he is concerned about, where more and more gross election films are approved? And: Would there be any reason to consider whether the criminal law clause should have been changed to protect the world from a development against more gross choice in video?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2357	I guess there's no doubt that as the years have passed, we've moved the boundaries of what kind of narratives we accept in different media in different areas, not least what kind of scenes of violence we've ever expected to watch on TV or on film. There may be divided opinions about whether this has been a successful or unfortunate development. With regard to children and young people, there is certainly an unfortunate development in any case, and we should be aware of it. However, it must be the case that independent bodies, not political judgement, are involved in individual matters and consider which films are to be permitted, which scenes are to be allowed and which are not to be allowed. I think we're moving into a very difficult waters if we as politicians are going to start making these assessments. I don't imagine we're going to change the law. I think it's really quite opaque. It is up to the courts to weigh the legal wording against what they consider to be the prevailing situation in people's attitudes to such descriptions. I think that is a solid system that we should take care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2364	I thank you again for your answer. I agree with the Council of State that there are no politicians to decide which single films to approve. We don't have that competence. It is the Storting that will draw up the guidelines for this. The reason why I drew this up was that this movie is an example of movies that didn't actually get approved before, because a pointer to the rough power descriptions, but one has now changed the interpretation over time. Societal development has in a way led to a permit of more choice before the use of criminal law § 382. Since the Council of State sees that this can lead to an unfortunate development for children and young people, I would like to ask: How will the Government follow up this work in the future, given that children and young people are increasingly exposed to more and more power statements, and one knows what consequences it has – and could have – on the emerging generation?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2373	I don't know the reason for the media surveillance to approve the film, whether it's because one believes that the scenes of violence are more easily digestible now than they were before, whether they think this is not for entertainment, but for artistic purposes, or whether they think that the film is so old that it doesn't have the same effect anymore, because it is so obvious that this is fiction. I have no idea. This is the Media Authority's table. I will not go into a discussion about this either. As politicians, we have a responsibility to ensure that at least children and young people are as protected from the kind of impressions that can cause harm. We have an age limit, and we have media surveillance. But I also think that a awareness and knowledge of this, among other things. through the school system and information campaigns, is an instrument that we should use. I think in today's modern media reality, young people can get hold of anything, anywhere. The Internet has made the entire information society enter the boys' room or the girls' room with a keypress. I think it's just building people's attitudes and making each and every youth aware that we can really succeed in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2384	I have allowed myself to ask the following questions: «Referenced to Evening Post Tuesday 24 and Wednesday 25 January. The Council of State here states that he wants a rapid evaluation of the book contract, while giving signals of strengthening the book clubs, as turnover has fallen in 2005. On what basis does the Council of State base its decision to expedite the evaluation of the book contract and does the Council of State believe that book clubs should be given the opportunity to offer consumers a higher discount than the general bookstore?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2393	A rapid evaluation of the book situation is desirable because adjustments to the competitive leadership provided by the Royal Resolution of 17 December 2004 and the Regulation on accommodation composition of 29 April 2005 may be necessary. The book club system has been significant in the dissemination of a wide range of quality literature across the country. Some important changes may be irreversible if we do not have them adjusted in time. It is therefore essential to speed up the collection of objective statistics for the book industry that can be used to assess how the new market conditions meet our literature policy objectives. Only on the basis of an evaluation will it be possible to differentiate the discount rates between different sales channels. It is important to be in dialogue with the actors about the development of the industry, and it is the Government's intention to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2400	The current system is based on an agreement concluded between the operators in the industry. I'm a little surprised if the Council of State thinks he's going to go beyond what this agreement represents. In that case, I assume that he intends to summon the parties, and that there must be a voluntary arrangement. When it comes to the book club question, it's one of the difficult points of this problem. It is an area where these negotiations have collapsed before. The nature of the attitude signalled by the Ministry will be of great importance to the parties. I notice that you do not go off the road to signal that you think that the book clubs should be able to have more favourable arrangements than the bookstores. In that case, it is a very important signal to get there. When it comes to statistics, I wonder how to get real statistics as early as now. Currently, no useful numerical material is available from any professional organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2409	I imagine that we need to have two rounds of evaluation, one round in ours, where, on the basis of what we have experienced in 2005, we get a picture of how the first outcome of the new framework conditions has been, and then we need to have a more thorough evaluation after a while, where the longer-term effects are being identified. It is also obvious that the harvest of books varies. One year you have big authors and great bestsellers, and the other years it might be a little bit thinner with bestsellers and the most famous names. That's why there's variations from year to year that make it a little bit difficult to evaluate just one year alone. Nevertheless, the government’s starting point is that we have had a very successful literature policy in Norway. We are of the most readers and publishers in relation to both population and not least language areas, so here we have succeeded. We only need to take care of the new framework conditions which came partly under the directives of the previous government. It surprises me that the representative is a little worried about the government's signals, considering that the time you almost gave a directive. Then you have to be willing to adjust in time, so that you do not risk some things being lost for good. If it turns out – and I say if – that e.g. the book clubs within important niches, which have a fragile, fragile market, are in the process of falling below a critical threshold and may thus be closed down, we may need to look at schemes to ensure that these systems exist. But there we are not. We have to get the numbers on the table first.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2414	My concern is that within a regulated market it will be important what the one that gives the incentives almost means. We note this in very central terms, and it amazes me a little bit that you don't see that setting off with two evaluation rounds, and giving so clear signals that you don't like the current system, also creates uncertainty around what the industry perceives as its framework conditions. I may perceive that the Council of State is a bit preconceived, that he carries it as in and of itself was very clear signals when we were in this field in connection with many cases in the previous period. I guess I also suspect that you've probably made up your mind about what you want to achieve, and that you see a way back to a regulated regime, a little bit independent of what the statistics will tell us.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2419	Let me first stress that if there are to be changes in the industrial agreement, there must be agreement between the parties to the inter-branch agreement. We have no plans for a law or regulation that imposes changes on the industry. But we believe that this is an important literary and cultural policy area in which, as engaged cultural politicians, both in government and in general, we need to have a meaning and commitment. I was critical of the previous government's handling of this for two reasons, partly because it seemed as if it were the competition policy objectives and not the cultural policy objectives that prevailed, and partly because I thought that the parties should be allowed to negotiate before making clear directives on what an agreement should look like. But it's the snow that fell last year. We agreed from the opposition on some of the changes that were made, among other things. free price on school books, but other areas we were critical of. On our side, we will follow developments carefully, so that we can take the steps we need in time, and therefore we need more rounds of evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2430	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘It is outrageous to read in the Address Paper that the woman who died in a fire in her nursing apartment at Buran in Trondheim Municipality had been deprived of her security alarm without decision. The security alarm shall provide older people with the assistance they need. According to the Municipal Report on Thursday 12 January 2006: «Many nursing homes are built for healthy people, but are inhabited by heavily nurturing people.» What measures will the Council of State take to ensure that decisions are not broken and that fire safety is safeguarded and improved?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2439	Let me first say that I also think this story is outrageous. Social alarm is not a service the municipality is required to provide, but it is nevertheless a very important service. The award of such a service shall be equally fully awarded on the basis of individual decisions. Therefore, if a safety alarm is to be withdrawn, it shall take the form of a conversion decision. It shall include, inter alia: ensure that the municipality is able to assess alternative services which ensure that the recipient has a proper service offer. The action of the municipality as described in Addressavias therefore conflicts with the rules of the Administrative Act. The Ministry of Health and Welfare aims to strengthen the procedural competence of all municipalities. The Social and Health Directorate has therefore developed a case-handling guide for services under the Local Health and Social Services Act. The county councils follow this guide by organising local training and training activities. From our point of view, municipalities will be obliged to report data on care services to a central register, what we call individual care statistics, or abbreviated IPLOS. The registration is based on decisions on services and stimulates increased focus on procedural rules. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health has spent a great deal of resources on training this in order to increase the competence of local authorities to deal with this issue. The rules of procedure may in some cases be difficult for users to understand, and they may also be difficult to apply to municipalities. The Ministry of Health and Health will therefore consider in the follow-up to the proposal for a common social and health law in the municipalities of NOU 2004:18, the wholeness and level of social and health services, how to simplify the rules of procedure. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness has conducted a survey showing that less than half of the municipalities have housing with poor fire safety. However, the situation is slightly better than three years ago, but it is still not good enough. Fire safety in dwellings for persons in need of care is the responsibility of building owners and a joint responsibility for at least three municipal offices, the nursing and care seat, the building seat and the fire service. Good fire safety requires cross-departments of cooperation. I can also inform the representative that a working group has been set up to monitor and propose measures to improve the fire safety of dwellings for care purposes. The working group consists of representatives of the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, the Directorate for Social Affairs and Health, the State Building Technical Office and the House Bank. The evaluation of the working group shall include, inter alia: as a result of a free instructional system on fire protection for employees in the municipality’s domestic service. The educational system is a tool that can be used by the municipality to strengthen the fire safety of a vulnerable community group. The scheme was launched in January 2006 and all municipalities receive the instruction system.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2458	I thank you for your answer. It is, of course, a positive thing to build up the competence in dealing with cases. It is also positive that some measures are being taken in the form of investigations. But for those living in nursing homes who do not have that fire safety today to be helped in the future, more is needed than just investigations, more is needed than just competence, there is also a need for action. And action is needed relatively quickly. We know that it costs little to install sprinkler systems, which could have prevented some deaths in nursing homes. Will the Council of State make better and more concrete demands and make financial resources available to enable us to install as simple mechanisms as sprinklers in the country's nursing homes in the near future?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2470	We suggest that we have nursing homes that are also safe in relation to the possibility of a fire there. All I've said now, we're going to follow up, and that's going to result in action. Then it is those who own the buildings – in many cases the municipalities – who are responsible for this. The government's answer to what you're asking for is that municipalities also need to get better finances for example. to be able to install sprinkler systems where necessary. That's why the NOK 5.7 billion we've given extra for the current year is a start to a stepping-up plan for the municipalities. Then I just want to clarify in relation to the current tragic case in Trondheim, that people should not be able to be taken away, for example. a safety alarm without a conversion decision and without being replaced by any other. So here, it's broken in relation to the laws and regulations that apply, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2479	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I also refer to what I said in my main question, that it is strongly nurturing that lives in many of the nursing homes. This must also mean that there is a strong need for increased investment in hospitals. Will the Council of State promote a speedy plan to secure sick homes for those people who obviously need it, so that they are not placed in nursing homes, which are initially meant to be allocated to more healthy people?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2486	During the spring, the government will present its own survey of care and care, particularly related to care and care in relation to older people. Caring and caring for older people with significant help needs will be a major part of that message. In this context, we will also discuss the questioner here, namely the relationship with nursing homes and homes. We need to make sure that those who are sicker and need the most help get the help they need. Too many people will answer to it as an infirmary. Then it may be that more hospitals need to be built. For those who do not have so much help, nursing homes can be the answer. Here you have to figure out what is best in each municipality. But the government comes back to the Stortinget with concrete suggestions on this during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2495	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In an interview with Hamar Arbeiderblad on 13 January under the heading ‘Brustad promises hospitals’, the Council of State states that ‘it is her ambition to quickly enable Health East to build a new hospital in the Hamar area’. Furthermore, the Council of State ensures that the decision to build a new hospital is to be taken by the Government no later than 2009. Health East has so far prioritised the new Eastfold Hospital as the next major development project in the health region. Does the Council intend to change this priority?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2504	Let me first say that as a state councillor, I have to be ambitious. It also applies in this important area. It is my ambition to enable both the Health East and the other regional health companies to make the necessary investments in individual regions for the benefit of patients. I would like to refer here to the Soria Moria Declaration, where it has been suggested that hospitals must be given sufficient financial framework to ensure the necessary renewal of buildings and equipment. It is my goal – and my task – to seek to solve this challenge. As you know, Health East is now in the process of expanding new Ahus. The health region has clearly assumed that new major developments will have to wait until that project is completed. Let me also underline the responsibilities of the health business model, which means that regional authorities are now responsible for investment. Then I think everyone understands that all the expansions can't happen at the same time. It is also the case that Health East must assess and prioritise the different investment projects within the framework at its disposal. To this specific question, my answer is: a new hospital is needed both in the Hamar area and in Eastfold to improve patient provision, and it is my objective to facilitate better framework conditions so that the necessary investments can be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2515	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which unfortunately was not very clarifying. The doubts and uncertainties raised by the Minister of Health in his statements to Hamar Arbeiderblad were all cause for serious concern. That is exactly why it was necessary to bring this question to Grandfather's Question Time today. In the answer that the Council of State has now given, I see no explanation of the main question in relation to the order of the projects. That sooner or later there will be a new hospital both in Hedmark and in Eastfold, I think so too, but it doesn't matter whether it happens sooner or later. It's so urgent with the new Eastfold Hospital that it's a matter of power that it comes before, and not since. The council said nothing in its answer about when a new hospital arrived, nor about which of the two hospitals would be built first. I really just have to repeat my question: does what the Council of State now says, that she opens up to set aside the state health company Health East's professional assessments and determine the order of development projects on a purely political basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2524	I would like to repeat what I said in my main reply, namely that there will be hospitals both in the Hamar area and in Eastfold, and both are necessary because the building mass is too poor. As for the expansion of the Inland, it's not yet in a construction process, but it's in it's called a strategy process, that's a planning phase. The Hospital of Eastfold, known as the representative Engeset, has been through an idea phase and is about to decide what will happen next. So I don't feel like there's any confusion about this. There's gonna be hospitals in both places. I hope that it can happen within a ten-year period, as it is now added up to. The government has the ambition and aim of trying to enable health businesses to make the necessary investments to build hospitals, both here and elsewhere in the country where necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2533	This is still very unclear, because the Council of State is unable to give any answer to the main question: Which of these two important projects comes first? In Eastfold we have been waiting for a new hospital for 15-20 years. There's an urgent need to get started. When we know that the new Eastfold Hospital is on schedule many years ahead of the new Hamar Hospital – «milewise ahead», according to the Executive Director of Health East, Steinar Marthinsen – the statements of the Council of State are now unfortunately fueling the fear that the Council of State intends to train the Eastfold Hospital long enough for us to be taken again and then passed by Hedmark. On 25 January, Moss Avis said to the State Secretary of the Council that I, as a major representative, was trying to “split” between Hedmark and Østfold in the hospital case. It is both my duty and my right as a big-time representative to try to clarify what the Council of State has said, and what she really means. Is the Council of State agreeing with its State Secretary that asking questions about this in the Stortinges Question Time is such a split between Hedmark and Østfold?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2542	I see no reason for you to be concerned about this. I have said what I think is obvious, namely that the new Sjukehuset Eastfold is coming. It has come further in the planning than the new Hospital of Sickness Inland. So it's probably going to come a little bit before it goes to Hamar. But it is also quite obvious that the hospital that is now located in Hamar is of such a structural nature that it cannot continue like this. I repeat, as I have now said twice, that the government is going to do what we can to enable health companies to implement the necessary expansions, and there is going to be hospitals both in Eastfold and in Hamar.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2554	I will be allowed to ask the Minister of Health the following questions: ‘The waiting list for patients waiting for cochlea implants appears to be too long. This is an intervention that should be done as quickly as possible to obtain the best possible result of the treatment. Long waiting time is also very psychologically stressful for the patients concerned. The waiting list problem seems to be a recurring problem. What does the Council of State intend to do with the long waiting lists of cochlea implants?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2563	A cochlea implant gives deaf-born children and deaf-bleached adults a lot of hearing back and thus, of course, completely new opportunities to work in society. I regret to say, like the questioner, that the waiting time for patients who need this has been too long. In June 2004, the Health and Welfare Ministry of the West of Haukeland asked the University Hospital to give priority to more adults in need of this treatment. Similarly, health south of the Rikshospitalet-Radium Hospital was requested to give priority to several young people. Fortunately, this priority is now beginning to produce results. St. Olavs Hospital started with CI operations in 2005. The technology in this area is progressing very quickly, both for the implants themselves and for how the operations are carried out. The operations are very expensive. It has made it necessary to establish a separate financial instrument for this purpose. It was not possible to operate the implants on both ears at the same time. This is the main reason there has been a delay in surgery on the other ear of young people who need this treatment. The Rikshospitalet-Radium Hospital launched a project in October 2005 to terminate the line of kids who need implants on the other ear. The Rikshospital informs that the waiting time for these children must be completed by June of this year. A small group of kids who have arrived after the project started will be operated until the fall of this year. This means that the waiting time for young shall be completed during the autumn of 2006. All the kids who need it are now offered surgery on both ears at the same time, and it is in practice per. today no waiting time. In adults, unfortunately, waiting time still seems to be too long. The capacity for adult CI operations is now around 140 per adult. years at the three hospitals gathered. Patients with hearing loss after meningitis will be prioritised to maintain residual hearing. In June last year, the Directorate for Social Affairs and Health was entrusted with the task of developing professional guidelines in this area, both for young people and for adults. The Ministry has, among other things: asked for an assessment of the indication, the need for one or two implants, the upper and lower age limits and the assessment of the benefit of CI in adults, among others. in relation to social and occupational activity. The Directorate is also asked to assess the overall operational capacity of the Rikshospitalet–Radium Hospital, Haukeland University Hospital and St. Olavs Hospital in relation to what is really needed. The professional guidelines will be available in a very short time. When available, they will form the basis for which adult groups are defined as rights spaces. I can assure Storting that I will follow this carefully in the future. In conclusion, I would like to make it clear that it is not only about operating capacity alone, but also about capacity for investigation and follow-up after the operation. For young people, it is especially important to have a good special pedagogical follow-up, so that they learn to talk. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health is hereby entrusted with reviewing the tasks of the Hearing Centres and Special Educational Environments in relation to the responsibilities of regional health enterprises for the follow-up of persons with cochlea implants.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2582	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am not at all questioning whether the Council of State is concerned about the issue or whether the Council of State wants to do anything about it. That shows the Council of State's response, and I thank you for that. The problem, however, is that we spend a very long time evaluating and looking at who has rights under the Patient Rights Act and its like. While the queues grow. While there are a number of people out there who are prevented from participating in social activities, there are many children waiting to have a cochlea implant surgery on the other ear, and not least there is a training experience. It's important that we get ahead of this, that we take action, because the longer it takes to get this implanted, the greater the problem, the more language and follow-up problems, and you lose social affiliation. Will the Council of State ensure a very quick procedure here when you first get these – I kept saying – the recommendations on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2593	Yes, I can immediately say that I will return to Stortinget in an appropriate way regarding how we will follow this up as soon as the professional assessments are available. I fully agree with the reality description that the questioner has of how difficult this is for those who are now in line. In particular, it's for adults, because compared to kids, we can do this over the course of the year. I fully agree that there are many adults who have been waiting for too long to get this operation, and it is clear that it is hampering social activity, working life, etc. The government intends to follow this up as soon as possible, and the goal is, of course, to bring the waiting time down, and that it will be a good follow-up afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2602	Now, when we get the case for treatment, I hope you don't try to limit this for economic reasons, but instead you have the main focus on how many patients there are that benefit from it, both for social life and for other things, so that's what becomes the main focus. In addition, we also know that in the case of reimbursements related to these operations, there is a question mark for the reimbursement given, whether it is too small in relation to the cost of the implant, and not least by the follow-up. Furthermore, we know that if you want to close the queues for adults as well, it is fully possible to train more people at the Rikshospitalet to get away from the queues that are. Will the Council of State take an initiative to carry out a further review related to the cost of individual cochlea implant hospitals, so that they can cover their actual expenditure? And further, will it be considered to extend the capacity of the Rikshospitalet or Haukeland so that more people can operate faster?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2611	As soon as I get the case on my table, I'm going to look at all the sides of it. I can assure the asker that the aim is for more people to receive treatment more quickly, whether it remains at the Rikshospitalet, at Haukeland or at St. Olav. But I'll come back to that as soon as it's clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2620	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health and Welfare: ‘Health West has recently decided which private operators are to perform health business operations for the next two years. Health West has chosen to look at prices only in the bidding process, disregarding quality, user satisfaction and the types of operations experienced by private operators. Many of the providers have only been allowed to carry out individual procedures. Does the Council of State consider that a tendering round with unilateral emphasis on prices and where the agreements are made as narrow as possible is in the best interests of patients?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2629	The care of regional health enterprises for their ‘care for’ responsibilities involves, as is known, both the use of own health enterprises and the purchase of services from various private providers. I assume that such service purchases are handled in a clean and satisfactory manner, in accordance with the applicable legislation. There should be no doubt that the quality and safety of the patient are of course the most important. As the representative is of course well known, Health West has recently concluded a bidding round for the purchase of surgical services. It is made known to whom Health Vest intends to conclude agreements, but I am familiar with contracts that have not yet been concluded. The qualification requirements to be met by operators are set out in the health-west competition framework. Here it is, among other things. based on the fact that the services to be provided by private operators are equivalent to similar services in public hospitals. The bidding process has been conducted in accordance with the Public Acquisitions Act. The contracting entity may base the award on the lowest price, which Health West has chosen to do in this case. However, the picture is not quite as simple as that one has only gone at the lowest price. Through these qualification criteria, Health West has been able to assess whether operators are competent and competent to provide services in relevant disciplines. Among other things, they have focused on getting a good overview of the personnel to provide the services. As step two of this process, the operators considered qualified are then assessed in relation to price. I am very concerned that the use of resources and services in the specialist healthcare service should be of benefit to patients, and that the quality must be good. This is important both when services are provided by public hospitals and by private actors who have contracts with regional health establishments. Of course, it is not an end in itself that agreements are fragmented and made narrow, but in some contexts it may be rational and efficient. With regard to the specific bidding round, Health Vest informs me that the breakdown of the contracts they had concluded may be inappropriate in some areas. They will therefore take a closer look at this and make any necessary adjustments. The overall objective of regional health enterprises is to maintain and further develop good services for the population, of good quality and with short waiting times. In general, I believe that regional health companies have patient concerns in connection with calls for tender and the conclusion of contracts. At the same time, such rounds shall be handled in a manner that ensures cleanliness, both in relation to regional health businesses and in relation to different private operators.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2642	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and note in particular that the Council of State referred to the response she has received from Health West, that there have been some weaknesses in the way in which the bidding round has been conducted, by not paying sufficient attention to patients, i.e. users, the need to carry out treatment in one place and at one time, so that one might have been harmed to create a situation where one and the same user must address several different professional environments in order to carry out treatment. I then see that the Council of State agrees with the confession that Health West has made that this is consideration to be given to, and that should be stressed when tenders are made in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2647	Yes, it is essential that we manage to provide our patients with the best possible quality, and of course, an offer that is of minimal concern, by not having to deal with several different situations. I again point out that Health West is now going through it and is prepared to make the necessary adjustments if one believes it has to be done, and admits that this may have been something unfortunate. Otherwise, I have to add that this government, as the representative of Wage knows well, has generally assumed that it wants fewer agreements with private commercial operators than what was the policy of the previous government. But one should have proper agreements, and there should be agreements that are proportionate to what is best for the patient. It has to be constrained, but it doesn't say it has to be in zero.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2656	Once again, I would like to thank the Council of State for its complementary response. The discussion about the weight distribution between public and private is, of course, an important and interesting discussion, but it lies a little on the side of what I asked questions about. The main question is to deal with the bidding rounds in such a way that the quality requirements for users are formulated in a sufficiently clear manner, so that it can also be emphasised so that there is no harm in weighing only marginal differences in price offers if they have unintended side effects. I find that some of the health companies seem to have seen this and taken self-criticism on it, among other things. Health East in terms of number of rehabilitation sites in Oslo and the nearest area, where it was evident that there had been damage in order not to give sufficient emphasis to user considerations and quality. I hope that the Council of State also shares the opinion that it is good that we have health companies that can admit errors!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2665	I am happy for everyone who admits errors if they have made some mistakes – whether they are healthcare companies or others. As the questioner says, we're also busy with quality, and of course we have to weigh it up against price. But it's essential that we give our patients a good offer. That's why we're there, whether we represent parties or the regional health company.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2676	As a nation, we have many challenges in training enough qualified health professionals, and especially in relation to specialist health services, and therefore I allow myself to raise the following questions: ‘The number from the dental examination shows that as many as 30 pst. by district councillors retire within 6 years. The consequence of this is that we get an acute dental deficiency in District Norway. This is a development that concerns the Progress Party. What will the Council of State do to ensure the future of good dental care in the districts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2685	I believe that both the Advance Party and the Government agree that access to dental staff and geographical distribution of personnel are the main prerequisite for giving everyone a good dental offer throughout the country. As the questioner says, the future retirement of dental practitioners in the public dentistry in the country is likely to create the biggest problems in our districts, where there are also no private dental practitioners to cooperate with. The ministry has been familiar with this issue for a long time. In order to ensure the necessary long-term availability of dental practitioners, the Stortingeen decided, in the context of the treatment of the revised national budget already in 2002 and in the 2003 State budget, that the training capacity of dental practitioners should be extended in the long term by 40 study places per year. years. At the same time, it was agreed that the extension would be added to a new dental study in Tromsø. The first dentists are graduated from the new education in 2009. However, before we have the effect of increasing the educational capacity of dentists, immediate action is needed. I fully agree with the questioner. At the request of the Stortingen, an action plan for the recruitment of public dental practitioners was drawn up in 2004. The plans were established through cooperation between the Norwegian Dental Association, the Norwegian Dental Association, the KS and the Ministry of Health and Welfare. The action plan is described in St. perp. No 1 for 2004–2005. The plan has three time periods: the period 2004-2006, the period 2007-2009 and the period from 2010. These measures include, inter alia: State grants for the recruitment of dental practitioners from EU countries, State grants for development measures in county municipalities, such as: the model of cooperation between the public and private sectors, the call for the county councils to change the clinical structure and a more appropriate division of tasks between groups of personnel, i.e. that dental nurses can take over certain tasks for dental practitioners. It appears from the plan that the impact of these measures will be assessed in 2007. I will make such an assessment in close cooperation with, among other things, counties responsible for the provision of public dental care. As the representative Fredriksen knows, in June last year a public inquiry was presented on the public engagement in the dental field. The so-called Dental Committee proposes more interventional measures to ensure good dental care in the districts. The investigation has now been under consultation, with a deadline of 1 November last year. We have received many good hearing opinions. I have now started to evaluate all the good recordings that have been made. Regardless of what I would suggest as a follow-up to the termination of the investigation, the action plan will be continued as planned. It is also taken into account in the budget of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2698	I would like to thank the Council of State for a very profound and good answer. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2707	I have the following questions: The Wisløff selection's 'From piece to whole' setting and the listener's answer until it is now reviewed in the ministry. The analysis points to a lack of interaction and to all types of patients and transitions. We know that sick and nursing elderly people get more quickly out of hospital and get more treatment in the municipalities. The result is increasing professional and complex challenges and a service provision under strong pressure. How will the Council of State solve this problem?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2716	First, I would like to say that there is extensive cooperation between the first and second line services, but I fully agree with the questioner that there is a lot to go on in many places, to use that expression. As the Wisløff Committee points out in its setting, there is a need for further improvements for the patient. In hospitals, there has been a significant increase in activity in recent years. There have also been changes in bedtime for hospitalised patients, but the picture here is complex. At the same time, many hospital treatments that previously required hospitalisation are now being administered as day-to-day surgical treatment without necessarily implying an increased need for services in municipalities. So the reasons for any changes in the service provision in the municipalities may be somewhat complex. Cooperation agreements between health enterprises and municipalities are currently being concluded in the regions. In the order documents of healthcare companies for the current year, I have asked them to set up good patterns of interaction between primary health services and local hospitals. I have ordered that local hospitals, or hospitals with local hospital functions, have cooperation agreements and regular meetings with all municipalities on common challenges within their area. I have also specifically asked these to establish at least two interaction measures during 2006 in each local area. These measures shall focus on priority groups, such as: sick elderly. Improvements in interaction require efforts on a broad front. Last September the Ministry and the Municipal Councils set up a working group to monitor and analyse changes in the division of tasks between the specialist health service and the municipal health and care services. The Group shall deliver its report on 15 February of this year. I have also recently set up a wide-ranging project group to continue working on organisational issues relating to interaction between municipalities and health companies, which is being raised in the Wisløff Committee. The aim is for the project group to report to me in June this year. As regards the role of decision-makers and the importance of interaction in the treatment of individual patients, this will be highlighted in the Research Council’s overall report on evaluation of the fixed-term scheme. The report will be presented on 7 February. The government has also launched a national action plan to strengthen the specialist health service for the elderly. An important focus of this plan will be the relationships between primary health services and specialist health services. Increased transfer of competences and better interaction between services will help to ensure that those in need of specialised services receive it with the right quality and in a timely manner. There is no doubt that the Government is taking the challenge seriously for the municipalities. Our general strengthening of the local economy in the budget for this year is the first step in this direction. The Government, as is known in the Soria Moria Declaration, aims to strengthen the municipal care sector with 10,000 annual works during this majority period. With regard to the professional and competence challenges, I will later come back to them in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2737	I thank the Council of State for your answer. It is well known that the Christian People's Party has taken the initiative of a cross-political force for the elderly. We are very pleased with the positive response, among other things. from the Council of State, for this concerns both capacity, quality and time. A solution to the problems of lack of interaction between levels is also central to what the Christian People's Party has pointed out that a new plan of ageing should be in place. We think it's urgent to get to a clearance here. Now the Council of State has partially responded to this, but I still want to be a little more specific about the follow-up to the Wisløff selection itself. It points to a number of approaches, but if we are based on the Wisløff selection, the Council of State is thinking of this in connection with an e.g.: new retirement plan, or is it thinking of this more separately? Is it possible to say a little bit about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2744	Yes. Firstly, we are pleased that the Christian People's Party will continue to cooperate with the Government in such an important policy area as the care and care challenges are – linked to the elderly and others who need care and care – so that's what we'll get back to. I'm going to a meeting with Sørfonn's party leader in a week's time. Secondly, when I have informed the regional health authorities via the order documents that they need to cooperate more, and also given concrete guidance on how to do so, I believe that it will certainly be followed up. When we have given time to our own group, which has also been set up, until 1 June of this year, it is also because we want concrete follow-up as soon as possible. Then I imagine that when it comes to following up the Wisløff Committee's other parts, it will also be affected in the message that not least Dagfinn Højbråten has asked us to cooperate. I expect that we will have plenty of time to go deeper into this in the meetings we're going to have in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2753	I thank the Council of State again. I also want to think about a slightly different angle. Many municipalities today do as best they can. In my municipality, the municipality of Fitjar, they've been on. They accept printed patients, and they want them to stay home for as long as possible. But it is clear that this poses challenges, not least when it comes to qualified staff. And that's probably one of the biggest challenges. We talk about both skills enhancement and basic and continuing training, and here we have a range of different offers that can and should be used. I also refer to that supplement as e.g. Private nurse's dents are in this context. When the government here wants to recruit 10,000 new annual works, that's interesting. And it doesn't matter how these are recruited -- we're actually talking about 20,000 hands. So the government can lift a little bit on the veil, even if it was a little uncertain about it, when it comes to how it actually wants to secure the necessary skills here?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2760	I'm happy to get that question, because it's very important for the Government that we manage to get more good-quality employees into this sector. Then there are several roads leading to Rome. One is that we're now working out a plan for how we're going to manage to educate more people, and that's at all levels, from high school to college, etc. So it's very important that we manage to get more people to go from part-time to full-time. There are many who work in this sector, who have come to me, and certainly also to the representative Sørfonn, and said that if it had been possible, they would have liked to work a little more – so they had a little bigger jobs. It's important in itself, and we're working on it. Unfortunately, there is a good part in this sector that is becoming ill and dissatisfaction at too young a age. An inclusive working life, where more people can work longer and it is facilitated that it is possible, is therefore very important and also an element of this, and of course money for municipalities is also important. We've given an extra raise of NOK 5.7 billion for the current year, which is a start. The sum of this, plus certainly other measures that we're going to talk about, makes me absolutely sure that we're able to get 10,000 annual works over the course of four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2771	‘By current law, patients receiving non-care home services are not treated with subsidised dental services. As the care of sick and elderly people is largely provided at home, fewer are entitled to publicly funded dental services today than at the time of the adoption of the law on dental care. How does the Council of State assess the attitude of the dental selection in this area, and what is the timing of the follow-up to the selection setting?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2778	As the representative is well known, NOU 2005:11 ‘Public engagement in the dental field’ was presented last year. To the question of who should be entitled to publicly funded dental services, the selection of the opinion is that this should be offered to groups with special needs, assessed by age, functional loss, medical conditions or other circumstances. The sample focuses to a small extent on the question of dental care for persons receiving home care. However, the majority of the sample is in favour of a general scheme of publicly funded dental care for persons with social benefits for living over a period of at least six months. I can inform you that many hearing bodies have just given their opinion on the groups to be granted the right to publicly funded dental services. Many support the selection proposals. However, there is a part that raises the question of whether other groups of low incomes should also be included, such as students and minimum pensioners — in order to use some examples. Furthermore, there are several issues that address how any changes should be implemented, such as: whether there shall be a statutory right, in the case of reimbursement, in the case of an appropriate test, or whether it shall be related to an individual level. It follows from point (c) of the first paragraph of Section 1-3 of the Dental Services Act that groups of elderly people, long-term ill and disabled people in institutions and home care are entitled to regular dental treatment free of charge. Therefore, residents receiving home services not covered by care, as the representative points out, do not benefit from publicly funded dental services. At the request of Stortinget, a pilot scheme with extended county dental care was launched in 2001. The scheme was implemented in a limited selection of municipalities in Hedmark, West Agder and Nord-Trøndelag. A range of dental services was provided to residents who received municipal relief services other than home care, to the elderly and to the sick who were cared for by relatives, and to those in care and mental health care. The results of these schemes showed that the dental condition was somewhat lower for these groups than for the average population. As drug users had the greatest need for dental care, the provision of this group has already been expanded to apply at country level, by granting approximately 50 % of the total. Thirty-five million. kr over the state budget for the current year. The project in question has been completed, but until final clarification on the existence of the current permanent scheme, the offer to the other groups in the experimental groups is continued. The decision of the Dental Committee was at the hearing on 1 November last year. The Ministry has received 104 hearing opinions and is now considering the recordings. Therefore, as the representative fully understands, it is too early to say how to follow up the various proposals in the investigation and how to present them to the Stortinget. But of course I will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2797	I thank you for your answer. I understand that the Council of State has a lot to do when she has received 104 hearings. In connection with the previous question about the aging plan we want to have a cooperation with the Government on, we believe from the Christian People's Party that dental health for the elderly is also a natural part of that plan. So my question is whether the council also sees that dental issues are an important part of the work on the content of a new retirement plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2804	It's quite obvious that some older people need more help with dental care. I'm looking forward to those meetings we're going to have the games in between. I'm open to all the good suggestions and all the good input. I don't think we're just going to conclude today as to whether it's going to be an retirement or another appropriate follow-up, but I'm open to discussing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2815	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Renewal and Administration: ‘The Soria Moria Declaration states that the Government will stimulate public use of open software. Before Christmas, 12 county municipalities entered into a software agreement with Microsoft, which means that county councils also have to pay Microsoft for machines running operating systems other than Windows. This may lead to the exclusion of Microsoft’s competitors. What will the Council of State do to ensure competition in this specific market and to promote the public use of the diversity of open-ended software?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2824	Let me first say that I am very happy to have a question about software policy in Stortinget. It is not often a question of political debate. The agreements to which the representative Torbjørn Hansen refers have not been dealt with in the department. So I don't have any reason to make any assessment of the contracts, and of what they might have. What I can answer is that part of the question that goes on what the government is doing to promote the use of a lack of open-source software, especially in the public sector. We have received a report on the table, ‘Using open IT standards and open source in the public sector’. A working group that was cut down in 2005 has prepared that report, and he is now being treated in my department. The report shows that open software is used in several areas, but that the possibilities are available to expand its use. The report has been on a wide loop. Many people tell us that there is a need to develop public sector expertise on the use of open-source software. In order to develop this competence, training and guidance materials must be developed. Experience and learning activities, seminars, courses and support for the environment are also measures that we in the department are now assessing. I expect to make a decision on the extent of action during the spring. What we've already done is that we've asked the states' allotment letter, which we've just sent out, to incorporate it into their current planning document, how to use open standards and open software.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2835	I would like to thank you for your answer. This is a topic that engages us in the Right, and that engaged the previous government, which was also reflected in answers from the then state council Morten Meyer to questions from the then poaching representative Jørund Leknes of the Socialist Left Party. This agreement concluded with 12 counties has a significant scope. It is of great importance to the software that students get through their schooling. The comments made by the Council's political adviser to the magazine «Computerworld» on 13 January indicate that there is not enough tools to prevent the entry into that type of agreement. But the county is, after all, a government level. Does the government not see any possibility of going in and having a dialogue with the county councils about how to purchase software? This is a theme where the individual county may have one interest, while the whole may be lost when you get that kind of broad purchasing agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2846	Now there are no municipalities under the Ministry of Renewal and Administration. On the other hand, this is done by public procurement legislation, and it is of course suggested that the county authorities should also adhere to the legislation that ensures that procurement is carried out in the right way. Where this applies to the processing of, inter alia: Agreements, the Competition Authority now assesses Microsoft’s agreement on the use of software in schools, and the agreement that the county councils have concluded with Microsoft now can be seen in conjunction with the school agreements. The supervision has therefore, in a letter dated 24 January of this year, asked the county councils to do good for the content and design of these agreements. But as a state council, of course, I don't have any possibility of meaning anything here. The supervision deals with this matter, and then we see what the supervision comes up to, like, the specific problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2853	I would like to thank you for your answer. Many questions have been raised about whether this agreement has been concluded with 12 county municipalities with a large economic scope and has been concluded in a way that is permissible in relation to public procurement law, whether or not a satisfactory tendering procedure has been conducted. It is true that the Competition Authority is responsible for complying with the Competition Act, but the Competition Authority is not responsible for the public procurement legislation. What I want to ask the State Council responsible for the IT area is whether the Ministry has looked into whether this agreement has been concluded under the procurement law and, if not, whether the State Council will see whether the agreement has been concluded correctly. And if it has not been properly concluded, do you have a sanction option in relation to the agreement that has been concluded?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2860	The Ministry cannot decide whether the purchase is in accordance with the legislation. But we have the complaint subject of public acquisitions, KOFA, which can be heard in such cases if the cases are presented to them. KOFA cannot be instructed and should not be instructed – they must be a neutral body that takes matters on its own. But what must be our starting point to ensure competition is linked to open software, but also to ensure that we use the full range of providers here, is the competence of the buyer. We now consider that competence to be a little too low, and we have, as I said, several actions in progress to increase that competence through various training/guidance tools, courses, etc. It must be the point that the demander in the market has the competence to ask for the right things, i.e. more actors. That's what can be with and create a better competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2871	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘Last year’s agricultural production ended with the end of 2007 of the target price and the market organisation for poultry meat. In the offer from the State, it was proposed that the organisation of the market in eggs should also be abolished. The abolition of market organisations and deregulation lead to increased competition in the market for the benefit of consumers. Will the Council of State take the initiative to abolish the organisation of the market in eggs during the agricultural negotiations of the year?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2880	Agricultural co-operation is entrusted with the responsibility of market regulators in several important sectors of Norwegian agriculture. First, this implies that the cooperative is subject to reception obligations in the form of responsibilities for purchasing agricultural raw materials from primary producers, both large and small, throughout the country. Co-operation also has a universal service obligation, i.e.: responsibility for selling throughout the country. I would like to stress that market regulation benefits all primary producers and market players, both agricultural and other market players – this through greater stability and predictability in the market, which allows the scheduled movement of goods, with minimum additional costs. This will also benefit consumers. At the time of the agricultural settlement in 2005, proposals were submitted by the State on the closure of the market regulation for eggs. However, during the negotiations, the agricultural organisations and the state agreed that the market regulation for eggs should be continued – on the basis of an overall assessment based on the market regulation objectives linked to both producer and consumer interests. The facts I have mentioned here are the basis for the Government's statement in the Soria Moria Declaration to underline the importance of cooperation in the market organisations. From these points of view, I cannot see that there is any reason to propose the removal of the market organisation for eggs at the time of the year's agricultural settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2891	This is updated through specifically two ongoing processes. The first is Prior's attempt to buy Norgården. The Competition Authority has now said no to Prior twice, and the matter is with the Minister of Renewal. The second case concerns the merger of Gildes and Prior, which is now under consideration in the Competition Authority. I understand that the Minister cannot answer in relation to the two specific cases, but it raises a question, namely whether there is good enough competition in the production and sale of eggs. So my question is: will the Minister, in view of the future, make use of alarm clocks in relation to the competitive situation, especially in the case of eggs, or does it seem natural that the market organisation for eggs will continue in the future, even after we have received international competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2898	The answer to the question is the same as instead. I believe that the market organisation for eggs is a sensible system to have, and I do not see it as appropriate to propose to change it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2903	I interpret the Council's response in such a way that there is categorical opposition to doing anything about the organisation of the market, which I think is directly regrettable, as the market organisation prevents competition in egg sales and leads to a lower price for consumers. I think it is a terrible shame that you have as an intrusion that you should not meet the increasing international competition that you know will also come to Norway, by deregulating little about until we get more international competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2908	I believe that the representative of Skovholt Gitmark and the undersigned have a slightly different starting point in seeing the value of having a controlled system in relation to the placing on the market of agricultural products, in line with the allocations I mentioned in my first response to that. I believe that the market organisations are good at achieving important agricultural policy objectives, not least in district policy, and I believe that they also contribute to market stability and to safeguarding the interests of consumers and producers. So my answer is that it is important to be able to maintain the markets in eggs, which is to maintain the markets in agricultural products.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2919	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: ‘One of the main objectives of the national transport plan is to achieve more of the carriage of goods by road by sea. It is desirable to respond to the plans of the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs for port and infrastructure in the light of investment needs in the future. Will the State Council follow up the Coastal Works Action Programme?’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2928	Increasing road traffic in Norway and on the main road network in Europe leads to delays and higher transport costs. It is therefore a political objective to transfer freight from road to sea. The transition of road-to-sea transport therefore means that it is necessary to facilitate the concentration of freight flows to hubs and transport corridors. Maritime transport is, to a large extent, an environmentally friendly and safe form of transport. However, the consequences of an accident may be serious. Competitive maritime transport, which meets the needs of owners and passengers for transport services, thus requires safe and efficient ports and fairways. As stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government will facilitate the development of ports into appropriate hubs in the transport corridors linking different parts of the country and connecting the domestic transport network to the international transport network. Furthermore, maritime safety and preparedness for acute pollution are crucial elements of the Government’s efforts to facilitate maritime transport as a modern, environmentally friendly and efficient form of transport. In order to address transport challenges and strengthen maritime transport, the various modes of transport need to be viewed in a coherent way, and the national transport plan is the strategic plan for the development of the overall State infrastructure for maritime, road, rail and air transport. With the exception of State fishing ports, public ports are municipal and direct investment is not financed by the State budget. However, through the national transport plan, it is foreseen that the main ports are well connected by land and sea. Furthermore, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is working to establish appropriate port cooperation between public ports and between public and private port terminals. Furthermore, the ongoing revision of the Port and Water Law implies an assessment of key framework conditions for the organisation, operation and financing of ports. The Government has also announced in the Soria Moria Declaration that an overall assessment will be made of all fees and charges in the maritime transport sector in order to give maritime transport a level playing field with land transport. The coastal works have already started this work. Treatment by the Storting of the national transport plan for the period 2006-2015 set the planning framework for the Coastal Agency at EUR 6 billion 2004 for the entire planning period. The State budget is adopted as known for one year at a time, and the implementation rate of the Coastal Authority's action programme depends on the economic space and the annual budgetary process. I would also like to stress that the national transport plan sets out average annual planning frameworks and that the follow-up to the annual budgets will therefore vary due to the size and cash flow of different projects. The coastal works budget for 2006 is at the level of the average annual planning framework in the national transport plan 2006-2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2947	I thank you for your answer. We agree, and I am pleased that important objectives of the national transport plan are to facilitate environmentally friendly and safe transport along the coast as well. I have two more specific follow-up questions: what will the Minister for Fisheries and Coast do in relation to the work of the previous government in marking waters and fairways? And: Will the Minister for Fisheries and Coast continue the work on coastal traffic separation?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2956	With regard to the labelling of fairway managers and the maintenance of highway no. 1 along the coast, I will return to the appropriations in the ordinary budgetary process. As far as traffic separation is concerned, the Government has now excluded a consultation proposal on the creation of a navigational leader. We're going to work actively to make it safe to travel along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2961	I thank you again for the answer. I'll try to be even a little bit more concrete in my last supplementary question. An important part of the sailing trail in South Norway is the dangerous sailor passing City. In the previous budget position, there was a majority that went in to set aside $5 million. kr for further work to be done by the Swedish Coastal Agency also in response to a contract documents. It might be interesting if the Council of State could answer how far this work has come, and when we can possibly expect a case about this here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2968	The Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is dealing with the decisions taken by the Stortinget and will return to the Stortinget in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2973	That concludes the Questionnaire.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-02-01.ana.ud1101e2984	There is no record.
