ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e74	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Work Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e85	Today, we have the law on labour and welfare management to deal with. Over the years, the size has wanted a reform of that whole area. Now take the necessary steps to get the organisational part of the reform in place. The main action taken is that the state responsibility now shared by two institutions, the Aetat and the Social Security Unit, is now being brought together in a new establishment. Together with the municipalities, this agency will set up offices throughout the country and through it will ensure that both municipal and state instruments are brought together to fulfil the purpose of the law. And the purpose of this whole reform, and the law, is to get more in work and activity, and less in social benefits. Today, we have about 800,000 people in pre-employment who are out of work. Many of these both want and have the opportunity to be active and in the workplace, and then we have to make sure that this can actually happen. It's about ensuring people equal opportunities and ensuring all economic and social protection, it's about meeting people with respect, and it's about betting on the line of work. I would like to make it clear in this context that it is quite clear that not everyone can actually be at work, and therefore it is important that those who cannot be at work also be guaranteed a decent and good life. It is therefore necessary that a central part of the reform be provided with an income hedge for those who cannot actually work. I would like to remind you that the instruments themselves, which are to be an important part of the NAV reform, come in their own big message for the autumn – in the announced communication on work, well-being and inclusion. Bringing together tools and day-to-day establishments will result in a good and equivalent offer for users across the country. Now it is promised that joint offices, what we refer to as NAV offices, will be established for all municipalities – with a complete first line. These offices shall carry out the tasks of the new state budget and, as a minimum, the tasks of the municipalities in relation to economic social assistance. For many municipalities it is natural and obvious that other services are also added to the offices, and here the law states that agreement is to be made between the state and the municipality. I want to make it clear that a minimum solution must not be viewed as a restriction or a norm, but as an absolute minimum. A minority, consisting of the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, propose that the introduction system for newly arrived refugees and immigrants be introduced into the minimum solution. It's quite obvious that in many places it'll be a matter of course to input it, and it's also a good example of what should actually be input. But the majority believe that there should be local freedom to choose it, and not a imposition. There has been a high level of involvement of many staff in the relevant departments and in several organisations as to how these offices should be managed. The draft law provides for a high degree of freedom of choice in this area as well, that the state and the municipality agree on the kind of management it should be. What is then important to point out is that the law opens up to uniform management. It won't be an obligation to have it, but very many places it will be a reasonable solution. In this context, it is important to say that if one manager is to be delegated, he/she must be provided with the professional and administrative powers needed to be able to effectively manage the management. The last time the Stortingen dealt with new labour and welfare management, it was clarified that larger municipalities could be given responsibility for labour market measures for people with social assistance as their main source of living. I believe that it is important to have experience through that opportunity and that there is a need to use those experiences in the further development of the NAV offices. It is also natural to look at municipal sizes in that context and assess them in the future. My starting point is that there are competences that should be crucial, not necessarily the size of a municipality. Cooperation between the State and the municipality should, as I said, be regulated by local agreements. These agreements will provide for organisation and operation, the municipal tasks to be added to the offices and how offices will work in relation to the other services provided in the municipality. It also opens the way for a provision to be made to carry out tasks for each other that also tell us what location and design should be like. In other words, local agreements will have a major impact on how the offer to citizens will be. It is important, then, that the state and local authorities are equivalent partners in the design of local agreements and that the best local solutions are jointly identified. The Progress Party today proposes that the responsibilities of the municipal social offices be transferred from the municipality to the state and transferred to the NAV offices. I believe that a solution with close cooperation between the state and the municipality is better than starting to transfer responsibilities from the municipality to the state. Municipalities have a unique competence in relation to local conditions and to their inhabitants, which they follow throughout their lives. Municipalities will be an important co-operation partner of the State also in those areas that are not regulated by this law and not necessarily part of the reform. Just because we don't see the state on one side and the municipalities on another, means that we can manage to see the whole human being. We can make use of all the expertise that exists locally to ensure a good life for the inhabitants. Many feedback has been received from the Committee in its work on the Odelstingsproposition, including: through the consultations, on the importance of the accessibility of the new NAV offices for all and that those offices must be designed in accordance with the principle of universal design. I fully agree with that. It's also specified in the setting. It is quite obvious that this is going to happen, and I expect the state and the municipality to jointly establish offices that are accessible to everyone, both for employees and for users. Finally, I would like to say that I am aware that there are many, both employees and users, who are somewhat concerned about the implementation of this reform. It is then important to say that job security, empowerment and influence from both employees and users are important prerequisites for the success of the reform. I look forward to the law we are dealing with today being put into practice, and to a good reform of labour and welfare management for the benefit of all citizens of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e115	The welfare reform is an old taboo for the Progress Party that is now finally being realized. Even if it doesn't happen completely, we're on our way. As I said, this is an old banner for the Progress Party, where, once again, the other parties come a few years later and society has to take the losses in it. Int. S. No 198 for 2004-2005, the Progress Party promoted proposals for a broader welfare reform, in which the municipal social services also became a State responsibility and fully integrated into the new reform. I believe it is extremely important that the whole chain of reform, which is the starting point of the reform, is as uniform as possible. A reform in which the municipal social offices are not fully integrated will lead to additional challenges and problems both during the merger of the various levels and during the further work when the organisation is merged. There will be great challenges to merge Aetat and the social security system, with the different cultures they have, even though they are state-owned and under one leadership. The social action as a semi-alternative body subject to municipal decisions, budgets and decisions could result in the reform not being made in such a way as to give a uniform offer in the different municipalities. It is of the utmost importance that all strands be as interconnected as possible so that the intention of the reform is achieved. The Progress Party therefore proposes that: ‘The government asks the Government to promote the necessary legislative proposals for the Stortinget to transfer the responsibilities of the municipal social offices from the municipality to the state and to be placed under the NAV offices’. The background to such a proposal is that it has been impossible to obtain legal assistance from the Ministry in dealing with this matter. This, of course, leads to several laws referring to the municipalities as owners of the social services. With regard to these legislative changes, the Progress Party agrees with the intention of the law, but not that it is the municipality that will continue to own the social office. Therefore, with reference to the proposal that I have referred to, the Progress Party will vote in favour of these proposals. It is very important that the working line be fully implemented. One of the main reasons for the reform is that more people are going to work and that those with residual labour are going to be able to benefit from it. This will not only save taxpayers for large amounts in terms of lower social security and social security payments, but, as important as that, give users a better life. Many who are currently excluded from the workplace because they are not allowed to use their residual labour force are also excluded from perhaps the largest social arena – which the workplace is. If we succeed, the reform can do something about this. The purpose paragraph of the Act refers to users' rights, while the user's obligations are not mentioned to a large extent. While it is important to regulate the rights of users, it is also important to make visible that users also have clear obligations. One of the obligations is to take the initiative both to obtain work and to exploit the residual labour that each individual has. Therefore, the Progress Party proposes that this be included in the purpose paragraph. Although we make proposals in the purpose section on the obligations of users, it is necessary to state in the law that the jobseeker has a separate obligation to place his/her labour/residual labour at the disposal of that person when he/she receives a benefit based on the fact that he/she is looking for work, has a residual capacity to work because of disability or receives social benefits. That is why the Progress Party is promoting proposals for a new Section 17 on the obligations of job seekers, which also shows that strict exemption requirements must be imposed. In connection with our proposal for a new section 17 on page 23 of the setting, I make a mistake. The following shall not be included in the legislative text: ‘The processing of personal data by the single local office shall be replaced by:’; Unfortunately, this has come with an incurrency and has nothing to do there. A reform such as the NAV reform could, as I said, give more people a better working day and give those with a residual workforce the opportunity to make better use of it than they do today. The reform, in the view of the Progress Party, will also provide users with a much better follow-up so that they can obtain the offers and benefits they require and, at the same time, provide significant opportunities for savings for taxpayers. The Progress Party therefore believes that the law should lay down requirements for the achievement of results. The Progress Party assumes that if the objectives are not achieved or political decisions are not implemented, this will have consequences for those involved. Therefore, requirements for the achievement of results are included in our proposal for a new Section 3. The NAV reform is based on the need to merge several offices and to provide access to personal data to several customer service providers. Several points of view were raised during the hearing concerning the introduction of a log system. Such a system is based on the need for customer service providers to log in each time they are in and collect information, and the reasons why they do so. The Party considers that the introduction of such a system would ensure that information and personal data are not transferred to unauthorised persons. Such a system must be designed in such a way that it can be used efficiently and without greater costs. Adjustments will be needed to enable all those who need to make use of the new NAVs to do so without any problems. This was also evident at the hearings, where several organisations pointed out that universal solutions should be included in the scope of the Directive. Since one of the main reasons for the establishment of the NAV offices is that it is desirable to facilitate the widest possible use of its labour force, it is essential in our view that the offices are designed in such a way that the various user groups can avail themselves of the services provided by the different NAV offices. That is why we propose it in a new section 13, which requires it to be so. The implementation of the Immigrant Introduction Scheme is currently located in the municipalities. This scheme aims to integrate immigrants into Norwegian society. The best form of integration of immigrants is, in the view of the Progress Party, good language skills and that they can provide for themselves and their families as quickly as possible through paid work. It is the view of the Progress Party that the NAV offices are better suited to implement this than the municipalities are, and I refer to our proposal for a new Section 13. I am referring here to the proposal I have referred to, the proposal relating to Section 17 with the correction I have pointed out, the other proposals of the Progress Party and the proposal to which we are co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e156	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to, with the correction he has also explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e159	I registered with interest that the representative from the Progress Party started his post by pointing out that this was a matter that the Progress Party had fought for too long, and that we almost only came across. I must say that it is a very special history description of this matter, which must be based on a very selective memory from the Progress Party. I'll leave the story with it. Of course, I could also draw long investigations into who suggested what at what time, but I think the most important thing now is to be concerned about the content and how this reform is going to be a success. With this law decision being taken today, in place, an important step is being taken towards implementing a major reform. As indicated in the setting up, the new establishment will channel social benefits and services of about approx. NOK 265 billion each year, and it will have a number of employees that equals about 16 000 annual works. Former self-employed establishments must be merged and have to work across the board. There is a considerable challenge of competence in this area. In the period prior to this legislative process, the Labour and Social Committee has used time well, not least to travel a lot around the country to see and learn from different projects. We've been looking at pilot offices that have started off and at the recordings they've made. I have at least gained the experience and knowledge that with competence it may be the most important challenge in setting up the new agency – single employees, for example. in the social security system, which has worked with perhaps only one or a few paragraphs of the Social Security Act over a long period of working life, it is now necessary to work across areas where there is no experience at all. It is a very important issue to be aware of, and I feel confident that it will be taken seriously in the implementation work. I think the possibility of success is absolutely crucial to just solving the competence challenge. The rapporteur was in a good way within the purpose and intention of this reform. For my part, I would like to stress this by taking users seriously – you have to avoid that users experience being treated as wasteballs and sent from the office to the office. Instead, we're going to have one door that gives you a more user-friendly system, where people can feel that they're being seen and met with respect. I am also very pleased that the purpose paragraph of the new law is so clear that it is a goal to get more from social security to work. It is a fact that more than 800,000 are out of work, and many of them both want to and can contribute to their workforce and competence. This reform should result in as many of them as possible having a new chance and new opportunities for an interesting life and to be able to support themselves. Perhaps the most exciting political discussion we get for the autumn when the big message is presented. This reform will have to be filled with content, and instruments will have to be chosen. It is often in the choice of instruments that political discussion may be the most heated. We have a lot of examples of that. Nevertheless, I don't think there's any reason to exaggerate the disagreement and the difference between the parties, but I have to say that I feel that it's a little unclear where the government parties are related to this with the right of activity and the duty of activity when the new reform is to be filled with content. It is possible that so far one only chooses to tread the water and get back to it when the staging message comes. I have recorded various concepts in the debate, including: in relation to welfare contracts. In the notes, it's pretty little about it. On pages 17 and 18 of the setting, at least the opposition batches are flagged in some areas in relation to the duty of activity. I would like to imagine that the Council of State in its intervention later in the debate comes a little closer to what thoughts he has about this. It must be such that it is an objective to get the most out of work, and that one should then have both the duty and the right to work or to contribute in other ways. So finally, a little bit about the municipal size. The rapporteur was concerned that it was the competence that was crucial, not the municipality in itself. That's definitely true. We're right here at some point. With the highly heterogeneous municipal structure we have in Norway, I am concerned that in some of the smallest municipalities it may be difficult to recruit sufficient skills to provide this new welfare centre and NAV offices with sufficient – and wide enough – staff to provide a full and equivalent offer throughout the country. That is why we point out from the Right in the position that the competence and the very heterogeneous municipal structure we have can make this difficult. Fortunately, it is then suggested that in given situations it may be possible to obtain intercommunal solutions. I'm glad. I think that might be necessary in the meeting with reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e185	When I entered the Stortinget in 1997, the Grimstad trial was one of the first I, as a member of the Municipal Committee, who was responsible for the work, came in contact with. The Grimstad experiment was one of the precursors to NAV, where a very comprehensive coordination effort had been made, and where, in my view and in the eyes of many, the results were amazing. But it took time before work was started to bring about a comprehensive reform, a reform that we are now about to complete. It's a pleasure. When we go back and look at various initiatives in this matter, I think that many parties have initially had exactly the same intention; one has seen that the auxiliary equipment has been least available to those who need it the most. They've had to go into a maze that many of them haven't figured out. It has been completed – to put it this way – with legislation that has been too unilaterally based on its own premises and not on users. We'll get to that now. It is very much appreciated, and we are very happy that we get such a broad connection to all the main lines of the bill that exists today. I would like to underline something that a unanimous committee says in the setting, namely that we ‘will point out that this line of work’, which is an important part of this reform, ‘must have a broad impact field where all people, regardless of their function, are to be included’. It's a very important political starting point, which the whole Storing share. Back to the objective: it is important to underline what the rapporteur said, namely that this reform has a broad purpose. It is not only to ensure that more people come into work, but also to ensure economic and social protection for very many people who will not get into work, either because they have lost their old age pension – they should also be in this system in the future – or because many will not be able to get into work. They must have security, both economic and social, and they must be treated with respect in the system. Furthermore, I think it's important to underline and talk a little bit about the line of work. It is important to define the workline broadly, and it is important to put in place a workline that actually works. The Progress Party and the Right have spoken about duties in the debate today, and also in the vote. They say that this law contains no new obligations. No, it doesn't. Such legislation is currently regulated by the specific laws applicable to the areas currently to be administered by the NAVs. But it's true that we're going to go through this in the process of the big message that's coming. There is no disagreement that there should be obligations in the system. But the point is that it has to correspond with rights and with measures that are functional and individually organised, so that you actually get a workline that works, not just a workline that blows with whips, that does not provide any work if you have poor health, lack of competence or need other assistance to get into work. It's important. There have been many attempts around the country. I have to say that one of the most positive things I've done in recent years is to visit some of the places where the trials have been done. There you see the enthusiasm of those who have been allowed to try to work across, as everyone is now going to do. This is when you see that you actually get a solution to the need for both assistance and work correction in a much better way than what we've done now. There's one side to these trials that I think we have to be aware of. It is the issue of throwing ball that has been going on until today, namely that some people have been sent around the system for years and have found no solution separately. Some of the reasons might be that they have had too bad follow-up, but some of the reason might also be that they are actually too sick to get a job and are actually going to have social security. We've seen that in these trials. Once you've sat down together, you've found these people that you've pushed between them – and then they've got social security. I think everyone must be aware of that. When we get this work going, one of the first things that happens is finding these people and securing them economic security. That's right. Then you have to use the forces, the money and the time to make sure that those who can and will get into a work-oriented race. There have also been some discussions about large and small municipalities, and I fully share the case-rapporteur's view that it is competence that is important. I'll probably nuance more than what the Right does in its belief that there are only large municipalities that can hold competence in this area. Competence is so lacking – I have met many people with competence in broad areas in small municipalities, and not least they have been very competent in the local labour market. They have had an overview that has enabled them to add a race that has worked for the individual human being, and that may be the most important thing. We've had discussions about the universal design of the NAV offices, and that's important. When there's one door for everyone, it can't be that there's one door for most people and the kitchen elevator for others. But it is also important to remember that for disabled people and people with different types of disabilities, it is not the life of the NAV office that is the most important thing, it is society otherwise. It is obvious that NAV offices must be such that they can be used by everyone, but it is an even greater and more important task for us to ensure that discrimination and inadequate organisation in society otherwise disappear. Then it has also been pointed out that perhaps the greatest success factor in this reform is that you can build up skills and culture internally in the new state, and I agree with that. We have to remember that in these floors there are many people who have a long life behind them, as many have said here, and with a professional understanding and ethics related to the interpretation of the underlying law. And there's strong feelings in many people because it kind of goes right and wrong. We need to understand that it's difficult, but that means that we need to put even more emphasis on building a common culture and giving people the skills they need to be able to deal with the new tasks. It's going to be difficult, because it's not necessarily like everyone has to know everything, but that you have to know more about the width, and that you have to deal with a much larger set of instruments that the department is now going to use – across the board. For the whole point here is that now you're going to stop sending people between the floors, stop saying that it's not my table. Now it's NAV's table to find solutions. Then it has also been mentioned in the debate that you want to put in place some sort of result achievement parameters. I think that's an interesting discussion, because there's absolutely a need for it, but the question is how to do it. In the NAV budget there will be very many people with very different assumptions, and there will also be different assumptions in local and regional business where people will find their place gradually. That's why I'm positive about the idea and that we're working on it, but I think it's pretty hard to imagine how this is going to be done, because it's hard to compare different people with different types of problems and needs. Saying that you succeed in getting a person with high skills into a labour market that screams for skills is good, but how do you work with people who may have a lot of social problems, and the goal of the NAV reform is to ensure that these people have a decent and good life? It is not easy to measure such results and set figures on them, either on statistics or in dollars and ears, but there is an important value issue in terms of part of the achievement of the objectives of this reform. So we're going to have to go into a discussion about how we might measure these results. But one of the goals that everyone agrees on is that more people who are in social security and who want to work will have the opportunity to do so, and in that area it is possible to measure it. But I would warn against a ranking of different NAV offices based on such a achievement, because it is people we are talking about, and we are going to treat them with dignity and respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e213	Today, a new and important step is being taken towards a better and more holistic follow-up of those who are currently using the social security system, Aetat and the Social Agency. The NAV Act contains administrative provisions for the new entity and is an important foundation for further work on the implementation of the NAV reform. The NAV Act provides for a clear legal distinction between organisational and material rules in labour and welfare management. The provisions on the content of benefits are still to be found in the Social Security Act, the Labour Market Act and the Social Services Act, and I look forward to a broad review of the instrument in the main message coming to the autumn. I also look forward to the presentation by the Government of how the main objectives of the reform are to be achieved. According to a letter from the Council of State, such a statement should be included in the 2007 State budget. A main motivation for the NAV reform is better follow-up by the individual user. The establishment of local NAV offices, where people live, is important in this context. The law gives the NAV budget a great degree of freedom to decide its own location. However, I would like to comment on the Council of State and the NAV budget that the Stortinget's clear intention is that there should be a NAV office near where people live. This presupposes that a substantial decentralised organisational model is set up. The main objective of the municipal integration work on immigrants and refugees is to enable future professional participation. The Christian People's Party believes that the integration work of the municipalities is difficult to carry out in a good and holistic way without close cooperation with the new labour and welfare movement. For the Christian People's Party, it is therefore difficult to understand that the Government does not want the offer under the Introduction Act, chapters 2 and 3, to be included as part of the minimum solution for the NAV office. The Christian People's Party and the Advance Party propose this in the setting. When it does not appear to be a majority for this proposal, I would point out that an overall committee specifies in the wording that the minimum solution of the law for what NAVs must contain should not be understood as a desirable restriction. In many cases, it would be natural for other municipal tasks to be added to the NAV offices in addition to the minimum solution. In my view, that would be the case, for example. could make sense that the economic advisory service of the social services is provided there. It is very important that NAV offices are made available to all users and employees — including those with different disabilities. Offices also need to be designed to enable users to communicate their needs in the reception desk in a way that respects privacy and privacy requirements. It is not satisfactory if users are referred to telling about their needs where outsiders can listen. Many would argue that the barriers imposed by the current practice of professional secrecy are among the main obstacles to a comprehensive and satisfactory service provision. Privacy and professional secrecy are, in the view of the Christian People's Party, fundamental issues that need to be addressed in the NAV budget. However, we believe that the obligation of professional secrecy should not be practised in such a way that it effectively impedes cooperation. In my opinion, the propositions balance these considerations in a good way. Everyone who is now working on implementing the NAV reform must focus on users and user involvement. Localisation debates, professional struggles and other organisational issues that naturally arise when such a major reform is to be implemented must be taken seriously and resolved. But the solution never has to be introverted. All solutions shall contribute to a good result for users and for society. I represent a party that fully supports the NAV reform. However, I also represent a party that recognises the complexity of the reform. To achieve the objectives set for the NAV reform, good cooperation with employees is essential. On the part of Stortingen, the Government will meet with goodwill and support. However, we expect the Council of State to give priority to reform and to keep on informing about developments. The NAV reform must be a success – it deserves all future users of the NAV budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e239	The fact that the law of a new management of labour and welfare has such a broad majority behind it in the Grand Duchy must be an expression of the long-standing nature of the changes, and that good work has been done – both through the work done in the parties, by this government and by the previous government. However, there is every reason to be open to the challenges we face, now that the law is to be translated into action and the more than 400 new welfare offices are to be established in municipalities. NAV represents a formidable organisational challenge, and through this treatment we are not guaranteed the success we all want. It must be worked hard from all sides. We will continue to have a strong focus on the need for the NAV reform to become a decentralisation reform. Several decisions should be taken closer to users and thus better adapted to the individual. We will see to it that the reform also becomes a decentralisation reform, by involving local authorities more closely in the exercise of labour market and social policy, and that these welfare tasks are seen more closely in the context of the tasks of the municipal social service. Some will be afraid that the reform, when it comes to it, will have the effect of moving the real decisions upwards – to the new Directorate of Labour and Welfare. It must not be allowed to evolve like this! Paragraphs 5 and 6 of the Law shall be complied with. It states that the Directorate of Labour and Welfare can, and I say, should, delegate its powers to the underlying bodies of the Working and Welfare Act and ensure that users’ representatives are actively involved in the implementation and evaluation of the services of the Agency. The Social Committee, through several visits to municipalities that test models of cooperation between social security, employment and social affairs, has registered a great deal of enthusiasm for the NAV reform. It's very positive. The many users who need offers and services from several of the floors have experienced walking from barrier to barrier. Worse than being offered, services do not address users’ often complex problems. We probably have too much regular more than individualised welfare services to provide. Setting up the NAV office locally means a change in this by replacing three receptions and three sets of case handlers at the reception with one. But at the same time we have to recognise that the most important part of the job may still remain. This will be discussed when the Communication on Work, Welfare and Inclusion is presented to the Storting. It is only when we break down the barriers between the supply chain of labour, social affairs and social affairs that we can talk about an implemented reform. We are far from finished with this, and the Stortinget will have new debates. The NAV Office is a joint first line office between the State and the municipality. Meeting one single office, which manages both state and municipal welfare measures, is a challenge for users. As the previous staging dealt with the basis for this through St.prp. No 46, the NAV Offices set up separate management lines between the State and local authorities. The Government has followed the many advice given by the Hearing Opinions, and through the proposals for the delegation of powers between the State and the Municipality, opens up a unified management of the Office. We have to hope that local agreements will be concluded where someone uses this option. But they have to be concluded locally. All the time that we are dealing with today, we are creating a framework that provides a great opportunity for the choice of locally desired solutions, both in terms of organisation and operation, we can experience a good deal of variation from the NAV office in one municipality to the NAV office in another. In the NAV organisation, the State and the municipality are equivalent parties. That's why it has to be like this. However, let me express the hope that the municipalities generally choose to include more services than those required by law in the NAV offices. Let me also say that the impression we have had when we were in the country is that they all say that the ambition must be that more services than the statutory agencies should enter the NAV offices. We need to stimulate it. But I actually think it's right, as the majority here does, not to legislate it. There's an equivalent pillar between the municipality and the state here that should be real. [[The President clubs.]] We believe that the municipalities themselves must be allowed to be responsible for this assessment. I guess I'll have to stop.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e257	The left has high expectations for the management of work and welfare because we see that there is only proper cross-departmental cooperation that can provide users with a comprehensive service. As many have pointed out today, the NAV reform is one of the major welfare reforms. This reform represents a rethinking where the system is to be adapted to the user and not vice versa. There are major challenges to this reform. Two departments shall be merged with the local social services. But if this new establishment is to adapt the system around the user, it is important that both Aetat, Social Security and Social Services are able to work together towards a common goal, which is to meet the user with respect and understanding to get him back into activity or work. And if you are to be able to work as a single unit, the internal organisation of the office must be at the heart of it. There must be agreement on the use of instruments. Employees in Aetat, social security offices and social work offices need to deal with new legislation, new colleagues and new working conditions. This is something which cannot be regulated by law, but which must be established through the development of a cooperative and operational culture that ensures the new tasks to be carried out by the NAVs. The 19 pilot municipalities will provide an important experience in how to work together to develop good practice. Cooperation and integration of municipal social services is a very important and central element of the reform. The majority of the Committee points out that the agreements concluded are to be based on equivalent cooperation between local and regional authorities and, in the event of conflicts, this equivalence shall be ensured. Having uniform administrative management of these offices believes that the Left is important for the organisation and operation of the NAV offices, although there should still be a clear division of responsibilities between the municipal and state tasks. In addition, it is important to have a management that can control the respect of privacy. The left considers that it is very important to develop a data protection system so that information about users is not misused, and therefore calls for an overview of how many people should be able to access the different personal data. The left believes that if you want to build a system around the user, there must also be flexibility in the system, which is what this law is all about. Municipalities may undertake tasks for which the State is really responsible and vice versa. The left will also stress that other tasks beyond the minimum solution are added to the local offices, such as: financial advice and the integration work of the municipality for immigrants and refugees. The NAV offices must also be able to cooperate with other nearby establishments in order to provide the user with an overall offer. User involvement through the local user representatives’ organisations shall also contribute to the building, further development and quality assurance of the service offered to the NAVs. It's a pleasure for a Left-Heart that other parties have taken over the social liberal idea of putting the user in the center. This reform is created for the user. Therefore, the principles of a comprehensive need-solving approach and the right to an individual plan are central. Today’s users often have complex problems. It is therefore important that the agencies and social services be able to cooperate — in order to find a comprehensive solution to a complex problem. As I said, the left has worked for a long time to introduce a citizen's salary, which we come back to even in the autumn, a guaranteed minimum income that can replace social assistance, for example. With it, citizens' contracts, which we choose to call it, that the Minister of Labour and Inclusion calls for an individual level, where both the State/municipality and the recipient commit themselves. The left believes that pay is one of the means that can be used to combat poverty. I want to use the opportunity to also warn against the one-sided focus on getting everyone to work, which can to some extent be demoralising. I'm not saying we don't have to make demands, but we have to set the right requirements that can give the good results. Finally, I want to address the competence that has been affected by several of them. There is no doubt that there are high standards of competence in this area. But this does not have to be a centralisation reform to achieve that kind of competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e291	Today, we are rounding an important milestone in the NAV reform. Through the Labour and Welfare Management Act, the EEA will clarify the external formal framework for the reform. The framework necessary for the joint implementation of the reform by the State and the municipality will be in place. Preparations for the implementation of the reform are in line with the progress achieved in the treatment of St.prp. No 46 for 2004-2005. The start-up takes place by the establishment of the labour and welfare seat from 1 July. The first NAV offices will arrive on 2 October this year. Offices in all municipalities shall be in place by 2010. The NAV reform as it is now being implemented has had broad and cross-political support in the Storting. I am pleased that this is also reflected in the committee's consideration of the legislative proposal. It is a strength for reform and support for implementation, which is a comprehensive, complex and challenging job. It was my predecessor, Dagfinn Højbräten, who promoted the staging proposition that formed the basis of the law, and who also started the legislative work through the consultation note of the law. The consultation round on the draft law made me think I could make some minor, but important changes to the bill. Firstly, I was convinced by the massive consultation responses that we should better facilitate consistent management at the joint local NAV offices. Many pointed out that bipartite management would be a significant challenge when creating an office that acts together and meets users as a unit. Telemark research, in its evaluation of the local coordination trials, has called it a good-weather model. The law does not set uniform management as a requirement, but as an agreement between the parties. The possibility is provided for by law to allow the delegation of powers between the State and the municipality. It is important to stress that there should still be two lines of responsibility, reporting and instruction from the Joint Office – one from the municipality and one from the State of Labour and Welfare. The delegation may be amended or withdrawn if necessary if it does not work in practice, or it is necessary because, for example: changes in the municipal structure occur. Another point I would like to make is that accessibility to the local NAV offices is underlined by the need for offices to be designed, as far as possible and reasonably practicable, on the basis of the universal design principle. The requirement is absolute for new buildings. For existing buildings, the Committee has argued that this principle can only be waived if approved by the Local Government and the Directorate of Labour and Welfare. Thirdly, the legislative proposal now underlines even more the equivalence between the State and the municipalities by adding to a dispute resolution model where the ministry does not get the last word, but it is added to an denominator-based solution. The dispute resolution model underlines that the NAV reform is a cooperation project between the State and the municipalities as equivalent parties. In many ways, there is an administrative innovation that we are now engaged in, and that I have great faith that we will succeed. Then, among other things, I build on the good cooperation we have established with the KS in the work of the framework agreement between the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion. The NAV reform is at the heart of the Government’s efforts to develop a comprehensive labour and welfare policy. In my opinion, a collection of state responsibility and formalised cooperation between the state and the municipality is a completely necessary organisational act to achieve the goal of getting more people to work and preventing people who have fallen out of work from being left out of work for an unnecessary period of time. NAV is the house of opportunity. Lack of coordination both results in too many people becoming caste-balls between public authorities and, not least, in the ‘lock-in’ of too many – they go too long on passive social benefits before they start rehabilitating and job-oriented measures. We need to give each individual needed guidance and support more quickly to get into or back to work. Through the new administration, we will be able to provide citizens with completely different coordinated and comprehensive support and assistance than has been possible in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e317	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e320	The NAV reform provides for two administrative stages to be responsible. One part is the state, and the municipal social services are the municipalities to govern. They shall govern this by municipal decisions, municipal budgets, i.e.: that they have full municipal freedom of action. The Council of State said that this was a «administrative innovation». There is no doubt that there is, but one of my questions is: how clever is it, when such a major reform is carried out, with the large cultural differences between the social security and labour market budgets, while at the same time adding burdens by means of administrative innovation by introducing a different level, which is also governed by a different level of administration? The case rapporteur also said in his post that there should be a similar offer in the country. How can there be a similar offer when there are different local rates of social assistance around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e329	The first question is, of course, an important and central one, and there is no doubt that one of the main challenges we are facing is to build a new common culture that takes the best part in three different existing cultures. If we do that, we can build a new and better administration than we have today. I believe that one of the basics of drawing with the municipalities is that by moving the municipalities into the NAV offices we also get the municipalities responsible for the whole of the challenges. Should, for example: A disabled person's job requires close cooperation with the municipality's care and care services, which means that he/she needs to work with home health services for example. getting up in the morning. By including the municipalities in the NAV offices, the municipalities will also focus more on the whole of their challenges, and I believe that in sum it will be better than if the municipalities were excluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e334	Notices to the Christian People's Party from the municipalities indicate that the NAV budget in many cases adopts a position that means that local NAV offices become so-called minimum offices. The setting of the NAV Act today makes it clear that Stortinget would like to see the NAV Office contain more than the minimum legal solution. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the NAV budget for the establishment of certain NAV offices is open to locally adapted solutions that go beyond the minimum legal framework?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e339	My clear impression is that NAV, and it is the county that is now having conversations with the municipalities, is very open to find solutions that would like to include more than the minimum solutions. It has, at least from my side, been very stressed that we are going to meet the municipalities as equivalent partners. From that point of view, we should have a good dialogue that opens up wise, local solutions. So I think it is important that we also have a debate on how clever it is to make NAV offices too large, because we also meet a number of municipalities that want to put the entire care of the elderly, the whole care sector – at all – into the NAV office. Then I think it is right that they meet a state budget that asks some critical questions about it, based on the objective of the NAV reform. But I feel very confident that the NAV states are not now promoting the minimum solutions. I hope that doesn't happen, and I don't think that happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e346	Several were involved in their contributions to the challenges of competence. I want to hear how the Council of State views this, because part of the challenges facing the NAV offices will probably be that it will be a competence challenge. Then, as some have contacted me about, it can quickly come out of it a misleading centralization effect, which is perhaps something unintentional. I wonder how the Council of State looks at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e351	It's a big and important question, and I should like to have had a lot more than one minute to answer that. I think it is very important that we make a distinction between the skills challenges, which are important and which I know NAV is working a lot with, and that at the same time we look at improving the efficiency of more traditional management tasks in such a way that we get time off from what NAV offices are actually going to do, namely, good user contact. It's important that these two different purposes don't get messed up. I'm not saying that the replicator does it, but it's important for me, at least, to stress that it's kept apart. Competence challenges are one of the most important issues that we are concerned about, and it will cost a good deal to get enough expertise in NAV. I am now very busy working on both the year's budget and the next year's budget to ensure that the appropriations are sufficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e360	The main idea of welfare reform was to reduce the level of social benefits and increase the number of people at work. Today we have approx. 320,000 who go on disability insurance. Many of these have a residual ability, but perhaps even more important, a residual desire to work, i.e. you want to go out to work. Today's business demand is increasing, and my question to the Council of State is: How and with what incentives does he want to organise in the new NAV offices so that these people can be qualified to enter the ordinary labour market gradually?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e367	It is a big and important question, but it has basically very little to do with the matter we are dealing with now, because now we are dealing with the legal framework for the establishment of the NAV offices and the cooperation between the NAV offices and the municipalities. I have said several times in Stortinget that we will address the challenges that Eriksson is now addressing, by now reviewing the whole tool, the device of the different arrangements that NAV offices will manage, clearing up the toolbox and putting a unified and well-equipped toolbox at the disposal of the NAV offices. We are included in a big message about work, well-being and inclusion in the autumn. So let's take step two. Now we have NAV offices in place, the law in place, and now we have to tackle the content of future welfare policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e375	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e378	I want to start with a question: Can administrative reform be exciting? Isn't it just something dry and boring, where new boxes and arrows replace old, but otherwise it'll be just like before? New labour and welfare management is the largest administrative reform in Norwegian history, in several ways. It includes 16 000 annual works and 265 billion DKK and affects half of the population — exciting enough, but not the main point. The really exciting thing about this reform is that it is the first part of a multi-stage reform. 5.5 pst. by the inhabitants of the richest country in the world are poor. We can't live with that. The NAV reform gives the new tool – one door where there were three, fewer users like throwing balls, greater freedom in the use of tools, new ways of working, more responsibility outside – in the first line and with users themselves. That is why the reform is exciting. It is also exciting because it alerts a new policy role – from the partial focus on growth and government to the increased emphasis on target achievement through performance-level governance. For years we have been worried about all the billions transferred over the state budget to so-called passive social benefits. The result of this concern has been new legislative paragraphs, new regulations and circulars at a level of detail where policy should never have been. Fashion waves in the political debate have shifted from stigmatizing receivers to showing so much understanding that people have become stuck in an eternal passive situation. Both parts give a sense of defeat in a society where well-being and self-image are built around participation in value-creating work. Now let's turn the perspective around. From looking at the 200-300 billion kroner as a purely expenditure item for the state and the municipality, we choose to see them as a social investment in increased value creation, and that's exciting. Focus on the taskbar. All people, regardless of their ability to function, must be included – not in charity, but in society’s own interest. At the same time, we give an important signal to the users – society needs you and what you can contribute to. Much or little, your contribution counts. It's an important value signal. It's about the human vision that underpins this reform, and it's exciting. We will bring with us those who have so far fallen outside or – rather – between all welfare systems. We're turning the perspective around, and it's exciting. The user shall not be adapted to the legislation; the legislation shall be adapted to the user. We are really talking about a reform of democracy, clearly anchored in the aid for which the aid is available. It's exciting. The obligation becomes clearer both on the part of the public and on the part of the user. The path of minimum resistance disappears. The possibilities of creating a better life are growing. You should no longer be told, but tell and follow what you have chosen. The reform warned of new working methods, greater responsibilities in the field and increased demands for results. For some people, it might be overly exciting. That is why we need to provide security for employees, also the security to know that we are allowed to make mistakes. The last one is not least important. Safe employees are more daring, producing better results and imparting positive energy to users. They should motivate and build confidence among people who often have a wide range of experienced defeats behind them. Rescued employees are convicted of failure. We've seen it on committee visits in the trials: Safe employees report positive results, and we met proud users who mastered challenges they themselves didn't think they could cope with. But they did it. Leaders at different levels are therefore given a key role that is exciting — creating the necessary security through education and skills building, spreading enthusiasm, making it fun to go to work because the results are coming. For the first time, the government will work in close partnership with the municipalities, finding solutions there and then, based on mutual trust between the agencies, without the possibility of disclaimer, which is the real name of the problem of throwing ball. It's exciting. A very important aspect of the merged offices is the link with the municipality and the local people. We have to take advantage of the advantage this gives us as elected representatives. Local populace are closer to the users. We need to find good reporting practices that allow elected people, both locally and centrally, to follow through on behalf of the users. This is a new and exciting way to take care of our ombudsman role across levels. So finally to the question, can a governance reform be exciting? The main promise of the Soria Moria Declaration is the whole and the plan for the eradication of poverty. Today's reform will establish the implementation apparatus. Over the summer, the instrument comes. So the answer is an unconditional yes, the reform is exciting. It brings Soria Moria within reach.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e404	The NAV reform and the legislation we are dealing with today are the first steps in the right direction towards a new welfare management in order to reduce social benefits and increase employment. I refer to what the Progress Party has taken up in the vote, which is that, on the part of the majority, you do not want to fully integrate the social offices. It would have been an advantage if you had done it, because the situation today is that there are a lot of people who have it tough, and we see around in Municipality-Norway that you operate with different rates of social assistance. We also know that some people are so cumbersome that they spend all their time and resources figuring out how to manage to feed themselves the next day. Those people most likely don't have the profits to spend their resources looking for work. That's why I think it would have been far better and more complete and appropriate if you had also got that piece into a state system that could have provided the opportunity to get this group out into the labour market as well. I am convinced that many of them have a residual working capacity that could have been used. So to this that I was in the line of the Council of State that is on the quality of labour. I'm aware that's the law we're dealing with today, but it's even more important that, when the law is passed, you don't make regulations that are of such a nature that it becomes more difficult to get the instruments that are going to put them in place to get people out of work. We have received some reports from some who are meeting a rigid system today. The point and main objective of the new legislation must be to reduce the rigidity of the system and to be able to achieve target groups more specifically. I also have great hopes and expectations – and I also see challenges – in raising competence in the NAV reform itself. But it's going to be incredibly important to succeed in this lifting of competences, to succeed in 100 p.m., so that people avoid going on the wrong social welfare schemes on wrong premises and perhaps even in periods that we know have been the case today, going on disability because of a long procedure period. It must also be an overall objective to ensure that this reform is able to reduce the length of the procedure in order to help the greatest possible number of people return to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e415	I hope the NAV reform at all levels will be a shining example of good and – more than that – optimal cooperation between the state and the municipality, free of unnecessary bureaucracy and time use. I want to see real equivalent cooperation characterised by overall thinking, common positions and visions, where one sees together the many new opportunities offered by NAV, the ability to be flexible between themselves and, not least, to serve them. This must be the case now in the establishment phase and when everything is in place in the whole country. This focus must be there every day if we are to get to the good solutions at a good pace. Tempo is important for many reasons, but especially in order not to lose the enthusiasm we have in many of the country's municipalities associated with this reform, which was clearly indicated by the number of applications to become pilots. This enthusiasm, often combined with very good preparatory work, is a very valuable force in the future. Not everyone could be pilots. Everything can't happen at the same time, sail if there are many to do the job around, and very many are very ready. When proactive municipalities have to wait, it is at least important that they understand why they have to wait, that they do not have to wait long, and that they ‘care’ while waiting. At least they must not get the feeling of being on the outside in the preparations for what is going to happen. Of course, funding is also important, as it is. The growth of the Government has taken account of the government's contribution to free revenues next year. But how the compensation will finally be designed will, as is well known, be presented in the 2007 state budget. First, we need to get an overview of the additional costs this represents for the municipalities, and distribute the municipalities between them, which is done through the consultations with KS on the matter. I want to draw out something I think is an example of good work and good interaction, unscathed enough from Uppland. In the autumn, an establishment plan for all municipalities in the county shall be in place in Uppland. The plan is drawn up under the auspices of what is called the NAV Forum, which was an early initiative by the county council. The Forum shall consist of the Head of the NAV Interim, the two former Heads of State, the Head of KS Uppland and a representative of the Board of Governors of the State. With this composition and through active work, the Forum has played an important role in ensuring good coordination, anchoring and progress. The Forum also supports the participation of municipalities in the reform process. Upland may otherwise sign with the only regional pilot in the country. The project that the six municipalities in the Nord-Gudbrandsdalen have merged is very exciting, not least in view of the coordination of professional competences. Hopefully, the project will be of good value to municipalities on other sides of the country. The Forum has also focused on the build-up of skills that needs to be done and targeted at both current and future staff at the NAV offices and other activities. This should be so absolutely attractive jobs, which must also be supported by the provision of training. In addition to the existing higher education services that need to be used in this context, there is a need for something new, something tailored to the new services, the new culture, cross-disciplinary work, etc. which is to be established here. In this context, the NAV Forum Oppland cooperates with the College in Lillehammer. I believe that this work should also be of national interest. The ambitions must be that the NAV reform should become more than a barrier reform. Much of the interaction potential to help people best lies in the hinterland, where the state staff, with all their experience and insight, meet the social and other broad competences of the municipalities. There must be close contact on a daily basis, which must be stimulated from here. This is how the reform would have the best odds. When you know how much it means to thousands of people that this comes into place, and that we succeed, it's easy to get a little excited. Any eagerness, and even direct impatience, is in this respect to regard only as a good.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e438	One may be tempted to say finally — finally a reform that puts the client, the user, in the centre. For more than 30 years, different parts of welfare management have been aware that some clients, users, social-securityed and unemployed have become gamblers between different levels of government and administrative sectors. I want to say that the decision the Stortinget is about to take today, not only is the result of a long-term work, but what I want to characterise as a result of a revolutionary political work of patience, a work of patience carried out by enthusiasts and idealists in the field, idealists who in practice and through a number of projects and project trials have developed an overall approach to the needs of users. Their starting point has been the experience of briefing on helping users in need of multiple welfare management benefits. They have found that administrative boundaries have defined measures and services, not according to individual needs, but according to the availability of instruments by each sector or administrative level. This is how the user has been adapted to the instrument rather than vice versa. A number of trials across the country in the 1970s and 1980s and up to now have, during experimental periods, been provided with tools from several sectors and experience that both resources can be used better and provide better and more adapted benefits. The experience from most of these trials and projects has been good. Nevertheless, many of them have had in common that they have been terminated. The reason for this has been that the administrative divisions higher in the hierarchy have contributed to budgetary and professional cultural conflicts and made the continuation of the concrete projects at local level impossible. Thus, the welfare management has been a structurally integrated barrier to meeting the user from an overall perspective. This administrative reform helps to remove the structural barriers. In fact, we do not have one administration of all three welfare states, but the reform is a clear step towards a more holistic welfare service. We get a joint state body co-located and in close cooperation with the municipal welfare service – a cooperation that is largely based on flexibility, where state and municipality can allocate resources and carry out administrative tasks for each other when appropriate. This approach makes it possible to build on the experience of a number of municipalities and counties through their pilot projects. This flexibility also allows the development of best practice over time to achieve the objective of a holistic approach to the user’s needs and self-help. The reform is based on a different type of cooperation between three former independent institutions, each of which has its own knowledge and culture. In the further work, it is important to devote time and resources to building skills and developing a common cultural understanding. Social skills, labour market competence and social skills are both necessary for further work. But I would like to emphasise the latter: social skills are essential for an overall approach to users where the objective of self-help is focused. In the end, I want to commend several government councils for having the ability to take over the staf stick in succession. [[President clubs]] It has been delivered through various political regimes. In this way, the Stortinget has been given a decision-making basis, and there is a great deal of excitement about the reform we are now being invited to adopt. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e457	The president recalls respect for the speaking time, even though it was given praise at the end of the article. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e462	At the end of the day, I need to stress that the new NAV budget will represent something new in quality and allow flexibility in the use of state and municipal services. It is necessary for the objectives we have, but also because this is a very expensive reform. The administrative conversion we are doing now costs a lot, and it requires users to experience something qualitatively new. The whole thing has been in the minds of a lot of people. On the other hand, I would like to stress what many have said, that the whole of it means not only that we can work together within the new establishment and with the municipal social services, but that we also need to work together with other agencies, both state, municipal and, where appropriate, county councils, so that each user can get the services they need. It is very important that there are no new watertight bulkheads between NAV and e.g. the municipal rehabilitation service, the State rehabilitation service or the educational institutions. It will be very important to achieve the goal of getting more people into work. Finally, NAV must be one of the main instruments of poverty reduction, as the representative Lise Christoffersen said in his excellent speech. The representative Robert Eriksson of the Progress Party was also concerned with social assistance and its problems. Yes, it's just reading the Social and Health Directorate's reports in this area, which show that there are problems and big differences here. Not least, the consequences of economic poverty are obstacles to the working line. People don't get out of poverty because they have too big economic problems to do the reverse operation. That's why it's one of the important tasks that we're going to do for the autumn, when we're going to go through the big news and the tools associated with it, and the action plan against poverty, so that we can get a whole in this, and make it realistic for everyone to succeed. Then we're talking about work, and we're also talking about benefits that don't turn people into poverty and problems, but that they get the opportunity to lift up and accept the offers that a new NAV budget should be able to give them, so that they can get a better and more active life, and so that the opportunity to work, which almost everyone has, is realized for the benefit of both them sea and society.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e473	It's in many ways a historic day. We, who have been on the social committee for the previous eight years, have experienced this matter from its very beginning in 1997-98 and further development. This reform is perhaps one of the most significant in the Storting over the last eight to ten years. The hospital reform was a major reform, but the welfare reform we are now adopting will have major consequences for a number of users. There is reason to give tribute both to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and to the Labour and Social Committee for the work done. This is perhaps also one of the issues where the Storting has been most committed to the final result. Several documents have come from various government councils along the way, but one has had a hand on the steering wheel in Stortinget, and in my view the result we now see is a good result. I have previously worked in the social security system as an advisory doctor and have experienced that individual users become caste balls. First, they apply for benefits from the social security scheme and think they will be granted it. Then the labour market seat becomes responsible for the implementation, but reserves because they believe that the decision is crazy. Then you have to go back to the social security system, and you might feel that you're not going to get there. And then, in the third instance, you have to do the social thing. That's unworthy ratio. All of this is about public bodies, where the issue of throwing ball does not serve anyone when it comes to the play, and it often has the final result that many end up with disability pension. Therefore, it must be hoped that this will lead to much more targeted actions for individual users in such a way as to improve assistance and coordinate the services available. So, more people have been involved, and it's important to stress, that although a significant step forward has now been taken, there are significant challenges in social action. The fact that social affairs per year the date is a municipal office, while the other two are state agencies, making it exciting to look at how to achieve cooperation under the same roof. But it also raises new challenges in terms of social benefits and where they will naturally hear at home over time. I have to say, for my part, that I have reflected a lot around whether there can't be good arguments for them to be on other hands in the long term than on the municipality. This has not been discussed in the government parties, nor in SV. But such a reform is likely to make it possible to have seen another step forward over time. Anyway, it's a historic day. I want everyone to be happy, not least those users who are now going to make use of the single office. Then we'll all be excited to follow the results that the reform is going to give.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e488	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 305]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e504	The proposed legislative changes to the SIS Act are a follow-up to Norway’s participation in the Schengen and Schengen Information System. The Schengen information system facilitates the active exchange of information between Member States, and it is well beyond doubt that this is an important tool in combating cross-border crime. A comprehensive committee therefore supports the proposal to provide access to relevant information in SIS to responsible bodies for issuing registration certificates for motor vehicles. The aim is to facilitate control and combat fraud and trafficking in stolen vehicles. At the same time, the Committee has noted the objections of the Data Protection Authority to extending the scope of the search to include re-registration searches for vehicles in order to identify whether the vehicle has been reported stolen or otherwise disappeared. However, the Committee would stress that the right of access shall be limited to specific information included in the SIS and that rights of access are granted solely for the purpose of verifying whether vehicles that are requested to be registered have been stolen or encroached with other possible criminal offences. The Committee considers it appropriate that access be reserved for persons with special authorisation and that users can only search for the information necessary to carry out their duties. The Committee would also point out that only State services have the right to direct access to the SIS and that other persons carrying out such tasks, if any, and requesting information from the SIS, must request such information through the police or customs authorities having access to the SIS. Another topic in this case is the SIS Act § 7, which lists the conditions for registering information about persons. The Committee took note of the proposal to add points (e) and (30) of the first paragraph of Section 29 as grounds for registration in the SIS. The Committee agrees with the assessment that § 7(7) of the Act. 2 is not to be understood as a change in reality, but as an adaptation and clarification of the conditions established as a result of the fact that the Foreign Affairs Act has been amended several times since the entry into force of the SIS Act. The Committee would point out here that all hearing bodies, with the exception of KROM, support the proposal for amendments to Section 7 paragraph. 2nd@item: inlistbox The Committee took note of the Ministry's starting point that the proposed amendment to the SIS Act § 7 paragraph. 2, the removal of the hazard condition as an additional independent condition will bring into line what can be recorded about non-residents and what can be decided under the Foreign Affairs Act. The Committee therefore agrees with the Ministry’s justification that the hazard condition does not make an independent opinion in addition to point (d) of the first paragraph of Section 29 because expulsion under this provision is precisely justified by a threat to national security. The Committee has noted that several central hearing bodies are critical of this amendment. However, the Committee would point out that SIS is a key instrument in the fight against terrorism and international organised crime. The Committee assumes that the Ministry will ensure that the provisions of the SIS Act are practised in line with its intention and that Norway thus fulfils its part of the registration obligations relating to Norwegian participation in Schengen and SIS.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e521	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 321]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e537	In July 2003, Norway introduced its own penal order against trafficking in human beings, § 224 of the Penal Code. The aim of this new paragraph was to contribute to a more effective fight against organised crime in general and trafficking in human beings in particular. At that time, begging and organised beggar activities were not assessed. This is because organized beggaring was not part of the UN Convention that was the basis of the law, and that we had a general beggar ban in the bar. When we are today going to decide that an extension of § 224 to also apply to begging, it is a follow-up to what was said before Christmas last year, when we repealed the lien law. The issue of decriminalising beggars in the process of revoking the law was given particular attention. This was because it had become known that the beggar business had recently had a professional and organized character. It was also this confession that led to a unanimous collapse before Christmas and pointed out that Section 11 would be effective until we had an extension of Section 224. We believe that it is important to distinguish between what is organized begging, where there are people behind and force or seduce others to beg, and those who beg for themselves. It's the backers we're after with this law change. We still believe that it is right not to criminalize begging on a general basis. We also believe that the principle of damages should be used as a guide to criminal policy in the future. In other words, acts that are not suitable for causing injury or a risk of injury should be decriminalised. This also means using more targeted social policy instruments instead of criminal policy instruments to avoid begging people. In winter and in spring, there has gradually become a major focus on the growing number of people who have to resort to begging or prostitution or are forced to do so. To a large extent, this increase has occurred among people living outside Norway. The massive increase in the number of foreign beggars and prostitutes has also been easy to see for most who travel in Oslo streets in the evening. What is new now is that you experience a greater degree of ongoing and aggressive behavior from those who beg or prostitute. It is a reality that many find this unpleasant and, to some extent, offensive. The question of how to stop this has no simple answer, but we have asked the Ministry to assess several possible legal measures against this. Among other things, we point out: in Section 14 of the Police Act, which provides for police regulations, and in Section 7 of the Police Act which regulates regulations, and we have also asked for any legal provision that clearly prohibits aggressive and ongoing behaviour in connection with begging or prostitution. It is important in this context to point out that there are already grounds for renouncing beggars or prostitutes if they disturb general peace and tranquillity or movement. What's going to be crucial now is that the big community is using the tools it has to deal with the problems associated with the big cities. Police have to use the means they actually have, and we have to put in more social policy instruments. What is certain is that this is a global problem and therefore cannot only be solved by action in Norway. It's after the last numbers I've seen, over 2.4 million people who are in a human trafficking situation. We believe that Norway, as a rich and secure country, has a special responsibility to help reduce this trafficking in human beings. It was this that was the starting point for introducing the human trafficking paragraph into our criminal law, and that is the law that we are now going to extend to organized begging. There are no simple solutions to this challenge. We need to meet it with increased efforts in the current legislation, and we need to assess legal provisions that affect such aggressive and ongoing activities as we have seen at Karl Johan.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e558	It's only been six months since a unanimous uprising lifted the beggar ban. The background was that begging today would not harm or cause harm, and begging in general would have to be decriminalized. The majority felt that one should use social policy instruments to prevent beggars. But what we've seen in the last six months is a development in begging not only here in Oslo, but in all the big cities, which none of us like. We don't have to go many meters until we encounter active, ongoing and aggressive beggars, and most of them have foreign backgrounds, many are from Eastern European countries. We are now facing a completely different form of begging than the one we decriminalized before Christmas. What we see today is organized begging with foreign backers who exploit fellow humans in need. This is a development that neither of us wants us to have in Norway. It is important that the police now get the necessary means to follow this up and try to put an end to it. The police need to focus on the type of crime that organized begging is, and they need resources to investigate and investigate the backers. The law we adopt today is very important. And as the Progress Party sees it, criminalizing begging again is not the way to do it. Some time ago I read in Stavanger Aftenblad that the police regulations of a number of municipalities are mildly ready for updates. Six of the eighteen municipalities in Rogaland have statutes that are more than ten years old, and the oldest regulation is from 1939. Over the last ten years, the majority has passed very many laws that should have been implemented in the municipal police regulations. These statutes are often the basis that the police also use in order matters, so it is important for municipalities to have good and up-to-date police regulations. Therefore, it is important for the Progress Party in this matter that we are dealing with today, to propose that municipalities be given the opportunity to introduce rules on the expulsion of people who are aggressive and annoyingly begging, selling and prostitution. That is why I am addressing the proposal that the Advance Party and the Right have promoted in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e573	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e576	No one who travels often in Oslo may have avoided observing the change in the streetscape. The social policy motive behind the decriminalisation of the most innocent beggar business is just as good today as it was when the decision was taken. The problem is that someone has known to take advantage of the period that has elapsed before the ban on organised beggar activities comes into effect. We have seen a development to the worse in Oslo in the matter of begging, and we hear about organized bus trips to Oslo with migratory Eastern Europeans. I pass this phenomenon daily on the way through the Castle Park and observe that the joy of giving from busy people on their way to work is minimal and indifference great. So we can hope that this business will die out of itself, but it might be that even small amounts in our eyes appear as a small fortune for some of these people. Not all beggars are drawn the same way as the turntables. We probably have all the experiences of rosesellers who take the bearings right on and follow us up over Karl Johan. It feels uncomfortable when a no is not taken for a no, and I am absolutely sure that especially older people experience this even worse than us younger ones. Whether this should be characterised as begging or aggressive sales, I am not sure, but it is important that the ban takes account of both. Here it's really just a question of what you choose to call the activity. The ticket or sale in this form is in the Right's opinion two sides of the same case. The Committee has been aware that enough is enough, and that there is an urgent need to put in place a law that can help clean up in what many would call unworthy states in the capital and other places where this is now growing. Therefore, police and justice need a new tool in the fight against organised beggar activity. Councillor Erling Lae has rightly called an alarm. It is both unpleasant, intrusive and unnecessary as beggar and prostitution activities have developed. In addition to beggaring, Oslo experiences great influxes of prostitutes, many from all over Africa. Nor can there be any doubt here that all the essentials of this activity are organized, and that many women are exploited by the most serious of cynical human traffickers. The prohibition of so-called coercive services and begging must be accompanied by increased police efforts to take the backers, those who organise and often remain with a substantial part of the economic return, whether in the case of begging or in the case of prostitution. Background workers must be taken, and women must be given help to return to their country of origin. The right has a strong understanding that the political leadership of the Municipality of Oslo wants to present the city in a positive way. It must then be the task of the legislator to facilitate the deployment of the necessary measures. This means that the Right, together with the Progress Party, is asking the Government to return to the Stortinget with further legislative proposals that allow municipalities to include active provisions in their local police regulations, so that people can travel in the streets of the city and outdoors without being embarrassed by organized begging and prostitutes. Therefore, together with the Progress Party, the Right promotes proposals to supplement the current amendment to extend access through local police regulations for Oslo and other municipalities that need it, in order to allow the police to disallow people who engage in aggressive begging, sales and prostitution. I would strongly appeal to the Minister of Justice to come to Stortinget with a rapid amendment of the law. Moreover, the Right will also support the proposal notified by the Christian People's Party. This means, in this case, that beggar legislation must be closely followed up and, if necessary, corrected at an early stage if today’s amendment does not work as intended. The reality is that the scale of the problem has grown considerably, and we need to put in place effective countermeasures to reverse negative developments. Therefore, Stortinget must listen carefully to those who really wear the shoe. There are local politicians and residents in Oslo – and elsewhere with similar problems, although perhaps not of the same caliber as the problems in this city. The parties did not wish to support the concrete proposal by the Right and the Progressive Party for an extended grounds for expulsion in local police regulations. It is regrettable, but it is not yet too late to turn around – if you want to give local politicians and the police even better conditions to act when the situation so warrants.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e600	There is no doubt that cynical backers organize the majority of the foreign tigers in Oslo. Both the media and the police tell about the backers who collect money from the beggars, transport them to different places in the center where begging is going to happen, and arrange accommodation. These backers profit ruthlessly on poor people who want a different life. The Christian People's Party supports the Government's proposal to amend Section 224 of the Criminal Code on Trafficking in Human Beings, so that those who exploit or seduce someone into forced labour or services, including begging, are explicitly affected by this paragraph. Organised begging is a form of trafficking in human beings involving degradation of those involved. Organized begging does not help people out of poverty. Poverty continues and is reinforced, both because the backers take the bulk of the profit, and because resources are used for travel. Organised begging is a serious form of exploitation by other people and should therefore be prohibited. Despite the fact that I and the Christian People's Party also support the proposal to extend the human trade paragraph, we are somewhat skeptical as to whether it will be possible to get the convictions of those behind organized begging. Often the rearmen are related to the beggars and, by virtue of their family position, have great influence on the individual beggars. It can be hard to get the beggars to testify against the backmen. Witnesses are often a prerequisite for getting convictions for trafficking in human beings. We who live most of the year in Oslo are happy in the city. That's why we've recently seen how the cityscape has changed. We have ongoing and partially aggressive prostitutes at Karl Johan and in large parts of the center for the rest. In addition, we have many and ongoing beggars all over the city. Many of the city's inhabitants experience it's hard to move in the center. Several have experienced that people who do not give to foreign beggars are being shelled as ‘racist’. We can't accept that this is happening. The government has considered extending the basis of the law on police regulations in Section 14 of the Police Act, but advises against changes in the law. The justification is that no need for deportation has yet been demonstrated. I disagree with this. Although the ban on begging is not lifted until 1 July of this year, it has been really asleep for a long time. We therefore already have considerable knowledge of what the situation will be like after the formal lifting of the prohibition of begging. The amount of foreign beggars is and will be significant. The Oslo City Council has therefore asked for a warrant in the police regulations for the expulsion of aggressive and plagued beggars and prostitutes. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, the needs of the capital should be taken into account here, and we will support the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right, asking the Government to promote the necessary legislative proposals to achieve this. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to prevent the life situation of addicted beggars from being made more difficult. For most, the option of begging for funding drug use will be crime and prostitution. That is why the Christian People's Party has supported the proposal to lift the beggar ban in the barn law. However, both the nature of the beggar and its extent have changed dramatically in the last two and a half years. The situation today is that there are relatively few addicted beggars. The total amount of beggars has reduced people’s willingness to give, and this affects addicts strongly. Given the challenging situation we have today in Oslo, with many and ongoing beggars, the Christian People's Party believes that there is a need to consider the need for action beyond what is proposed in the Proposition of the Government and in the position of the Justice Committee. Information campaigns may be needed in Eastern European countries to demonstrate the reality of coming to Norway. It may be necessary to authorise the expulsion of foreigners who come to Norway for beggars, and it may be necessary to reintroduce a beggar ban. Summer stands at the door, and more beggars are expected in Norwegian cities than ever before. In the coming months we will gain experience with the ban on organised beggar activities. The question is whether this is a sufficient tool for combating such activities. The Christian People's Party wants the Government to assess this thoroughly and provide its assessment of the need for further action. Such an assessment should be carried out as soon as possible and at the latest in the revised national budget for 2007. I take up and refer to the distributed proposal of the Christian People's Party, and hope for broad support for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e627	The representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e630	The matter we are dealing with today was announced in and of course by the former State Council of Dørum, but it has become incredibly much more topical in relation to the issues that the district representatives here in the Chamber see as challenges for, among other things. Oslo as a city. It's basically about whether a no is a proper no. And for me who lives and lives here in the city, I have to say that sometimes it's a little hard to see the difference between roses, accordions and Hafslund Energy in terms of inertia. We in the Left want to vote in favour of the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party, because we believe it is important to be able to provide room for local police regulations that go to enforce things in relation to local challenges. But the bottom line here is that social challenges are to be met with social instruments. What surprises me a little bit is that the media with simple tools, like a camera or a camera, can document things that in the past have only been claims, and as the police think it's almost impossible to find out. I think it's amazing that you can prove things as easily as the police think it's impossible to figure out, related to the foreign tigers that we see in our city. This also intervenes in a slightly larger debate, which I think is basically about a renovation system, a refurbishment process on people in relation to social challenges. If it's clearing the plate, if it's closing the square, or if it's calling for a ban on prostitution, it's kind of the same for me. It is about thinking that people and social challenges should be faced with bans and not with social instruments. For me, there is a little 1800s thinking about the prohibition of poverty, poverty and otherwise general despair. And if we think it's through the judiciary that we're going to be able to solve all these problems, we're going to be wrong, because most of the time, it's the weakest ones we're going to have with such decisions. We do this by using our judicial instruments with a much more specific hand and combining them with social instruments, which make people get out of the desperate situation they are in. That is why I would have hoped that we might have a majority today both for the proposals of the Right and the Advance Party and for the proposals of the Christian People's Party, which the Left will support, and which are going to look at the whole instrument, because there is no ban to get rid of the problems. We get rid of them by thinking completely, not by swinging the big clubs, but by many small steps that relate to the individuals it's actually talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e639	The social causes that make fellow human beggars have few visible consequences in small communities such as the United States and Japan. Vågsøy or Årdal. But in the biggest cities, and especially here in Oslo, we see the consequences. Over the last few years, we've seen people come from a long way to beg in Norway – lured here by rumors that one can cost up to NOK 2,000 a day. Getting poverty and misery so straight up in the face by making foreigners take our parade streets with their misery – no, we don't like it. It's uncomfortable. The Tiggerstad Oslo - yes, it gives a bad impression. Nevertheless, there are many who give money to the beggars, and as long as we do, it won't end itself. For beggars, the option is probably a lot worse. The new beggars are much more ongoing, often with physical disabilities. They come from Romania and other Eastern European countries. The tigers are well-organized, it's been revealed by reporters in the newspapers. The money they get from the street is collected regularly. They live and they travel together. This is organized practice, and we have to view it as trafficking in human beings. As I said, the goal of the amendment of the law is to take the backers. Today's police regulations allow the police to expel the beggars. In particular, the changing situation in Oslo will result in the need for increased police efforts within the framework of existing legislation. I would like to stress that we now want to look at a range of legal measures to meet the challenges we see in Oslo today. The Stortinget asks the Ministry of Justice, etc. consider an amendment to the police regulations and regulations and, where appropriate, a legislative provision which clearly prohibits aggressive and ongoing begging, prostitution and halls.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e652	The representative from the left was involved in some things in relation to prostitution. But the strange thing is that when the debate on prostitution started to flare up, it happened on the basis of the fact that the prostitutes became visible at Karl Johan. Then words like ‘human contempt’ and ‘unsustainable situation’ were used. The same people didn't use the kind of words when the same prostitutes stood two quarters below. Then it was not said anything. Right wants to take seriously what people need for security, to avoid being attacked on the street. But at the end of the day, the most important thing is that we can help the boys and girls who do prostitution, no matter what street corner they are on, and no matter what city in the world they do it in. The premise that we should be able to help the prostitutes, whether they are Norwegian or foreign, is that we take the same human view of the individual prostitutes as we do of other individuals. There's a lot of reasons why someone does this. That's why we have to have similar different solutions, depending on the human being it is, and what the background history of the individual has. As the representative Skei Grande was in here, it is that the mixture of a slightly moralizing attitude combined with a renovation process that has shaped the debate is not going to solve a single problem for some of those who have a prostitution problem – or they may not see it as a problem, but for underlying reasons it will eventually show itself to them. The question of possible criminalisation is a debate we are going to take later, but it has a number of pitfalls in relation to the debate here today. I am concerned that when we conduct this kind of debate, we are trying to deal with the serious problems that big cities are experiencing, while we are taking seriously that the individual person whom we perceive to be an astounding person actually has a bigger problem than the individual tourist who rarely visits Oslo. At the same time, I think there is reason to stress that there is something special that the majority – if nothing dramatic happens – will not be involved in taking Oslo's problems seriously and supporting the proposal that the Right and the Advance Party have promoted here today. Oslo and other big cities have a special problem. That is why we are promoting this proposal. I hope that the majority, the government parties, will take seriously the situation we have and support this proposal. Otherwise, Right will support the proposals of the Christian People's Party, which is a useful input into a debate that we in the Right hope can become significantly wider and more nuanced and not as renovative and moralistic as parts of the media debate have been to date.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e668	First of all, I have to be allowed to express the fact that the representative Dahl now hits the nail on my head and talks about what matters to me. It would be incredibly easy now to signal a full reversal of the Storting's previous decision and to imagine the opinion that we are taking action. In this way, I am glad that a total increase is determined and saying that the reasons we have in relation to criminal and social policies, the Dahl mentions in relation to renovation – I could mention other latent functions in criminal law too – we take seriously that there is a setting and a situation in which we politicians dare to stand, because this takes us all. I am pleased that the committee supports the proposal in the motion for a resolution to extend the human trafficking clause in Section 224 of the Penal Code, so that it is criminalised to exploit or induce someone to beg. The legislative proposal is a natural follow-up to the repeal of the Law on Prosecution, with the result that general beggaring will be decriminalised from 1 July this year. Instead of punishing the beggar, the prosecution will be directed against the backers. And I fully agree with those who have also come up with legitimate opinions and objections as to how complicated it is to conduct such investigations. This is not an easy matter. Witnesses don't talk about this kind of thing, neither those who are affected by the business we're occupied with, nor those who're behind it. But there is no excuse that the police should not be able to intervene in these kinds of cases – I was saying rather the opposite; it is precisely when you are going to have an active police force. I am particularly concerned about combating precisely this kind of organized crime. As with other forms of trafficking in human beings, such exploitation will put people in a vulnerable position that seems degrading. I am therefore pleased that the Committee supports the fact that the scope of such activities is not crucial as long as the activities have significant adverse effects on those exploited and degraded and those at the heart of the social problem. Urban development also shows that there is a clear need for such an extension of the human trafficking regime. Similar to prostitutes and street musicians – who may seem to be inferior, but that's not so – we see an increased intake of beggars. Many of these beggars do not have visible drug problems, they often come from abroad, and their beggars seem to be part of a more organized business run by the backers. As with all other forms of organised crime, it is essential to put the gun on the backmen. These are the ones that pull the strings, and without them, exploitation would often not be possible. The legislative proposal has also received broad support from a clear majority of the hearing bodies. In order for the proposal to also cover several forms of exploitation which have clear similarities with beggaring, such as: the exploitation of street musicians to play music for remuneration is designed in such a way that ‘compulsory services, including begging’, are covered by this criminal provision. This design will also be in line with the design of the UN Protocol on trafficking in human beings. By first repealing the Law on Disposal and subsequently amending the human trafficking regulation, judicial policy is being changed, partly by ending what is considered to be class justice, while concentrating efforts on those behind and exploiting vulnerable people. I am pleased that the Storting is united behind such a change. I think this is important in order to ensure the legitimacy of the legal rules and not least the future effectiveness. I believe this is a correct change. General beggaring should be combated by social policy – and not by criminal policy – instruments. However, in extending this, I would like to stress that lifting the beggar ban does not mean that it is free for beggars to use any means in their business. I'm going to allow myself to mention some homes that you have at your disposal, perhaps also as a kind of political warning, as well as that new rules will not always solve the problems we face when we see how we deal with existing legislation today. Among other things, people who beg and prostitute and at the same time commit criminal offences are allowed to use the deportation homes in the police law. by acting threateningly, Section 227 of the Penal Code by disrupting general peace and tranquillity or traffic, Section 350 of the Penal Code, or by acting intimidatingly or painfully, Section 390a of the Penal Code. Pursuant to the Police Act § 7 nr. 1 may also intervene by the police to ‘stop disturbances of public order or when the circumstances give rise to the fear of such disturbances’. I was about to say that the legislator has been so good. I therefore strongly agree with the majority in the Committee that the changed situation in Oslo calls for an active effort to meet the challenges within the framework of existing legislation. Among other things, in meeting the police and the police organisations, I have encouraged them to use the possibilities provided by the existing law, both to investigate and to get in the way of activities affected by these paragraphs and § 224 – both in terms of the exploitation of prostitution and now also to begging. As a result of the abolition of the penalty on begging, where the police will lose a ban house, the odelstingsproposition further assesses whether § 14 nr. of the Police Act. 1 on police regulations should be extended so as to allow the municipalities which so wish to expel persons who are ‘significantly disrupting the environment’. I want to make it clear in this context that decriminalisation has its price. A unanimous increase was made in order to lift the beggar ban, and new homes for expulsion — to the extent that they get a very wide range — will quickly be seen as a snitching of the same penalty. Then Stortinget has to decide if we're going to criminalize it all again. The representative Horne and others have said that this is something you actually don't want to do. I believe that we should therefore be careful with the type of legislation and rather say exactly what we want. I am aware, however, that the signals from the police force are moving towards an additional need to extend housing in order to expel ongoing beggars in Oslo, where the beggar business has increased and in addition received a different impact as a result of several foreign beggars. The same is true of prostitutes. I take the signals seriously, and I have, among other things, In meeting with the police and Oslo police districts, they sought to clarify the causes of the uncertainty and how the legal situation should now be resolved against the grounds we already have. In this way, I feel that both the minority promoting proposals, the majority and the Government have reasonable common interests in this. I would urge the minority to re-apply their proposal for a transmission proposal, as it can actually be seen as limiting the working mandate of the Government somewhat. We are willing to look at it and come back to Stortinget with any appropriate proposals to be able to fully clarify the basis for rejection, to the extent that there is a need to obtain clear permits in relation to this. Therefore, in line with the recommendations of the Committee, I will consider the necessary legal measures to address the concerns of aggressive and ongoing prostitution and begging. This applies both to the legal measures recommended by the majority, and also to other measures that can address the influx of this type of activity itself. Finally, I would like to say that the proposal of the Christian People's Party is a mandate that any government should be constantly engaged in. We are. Many of the issues raised — particularly in the introduction of the representative Woie Duesund — are issues that we will of course consider on an ongoing basis, not only against begging, but also up to a number of other social phenomena. But when I hear the justification for the proposal from Woie Duesund, I have to say that I think it just bears the mark of entering the problematic area that the representative Dahl very well pointed out that we should not go into. It is now beginning to point to the fact that there is no exclusion of new criminalisation — which affects those who are standing and beggaring to a large extent — and that the issue of expulsion, expulsion, is being discussed. Yes, there are measures that need to be considered. But we have to be careful so we don't get left with it. For it must be an ethical dilemma for the Christian People's Party – and for all parties – that what in many ways becomes our efforts in this Chamber, is really just to get them out of the country as quickly as possible or to get them punished, so that they get away from our eyes. I'm not comfortable just doing it. I believe that we must certainly have more tools to tackle such a problem, so that we do not end up in the situation that was in the 1800s and early 1900s towards the citizens who found it necessary to sit on Karl Johan with the cup.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e700	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 322]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e716	This case is a follow-up to the St.prp setting. No 49, which was unanimously adopted in Stortinget two hours ago. I'm not going to spend a lot of time arguing why we're going to ratify that UN convention, because we had that debate in this Chamber before today. I'd like to say a little bit about the odelstningsproposition we're about to deal with. The Judicial Committee welcomes the increasing recognition of the problems of corruption both nationally and internationally. The main objective of the proposed amendments is, of course, to ratify the UN Convention against Corruption and to contribute to the more effective prosecution of money laundering. We point out that the proposal that is being promoted will make it easier to recover benefits from criminal offences internationally as well. It is also important to point out that, since we in Norway have many bodies with full or partial responsibility for anti-corruption work, close and close cooperation across them is necessary. In particular, the Committee mentions the specific responsibility of Ecocrim to investigate and lead the courts in large, complex and/or in principle cases, while at the same time having a responsibility to guide and support individual eco-teams in police districts. Ecocrime must also have a specific responsibility for the flow of information between the other bodies, such as: Tollvesenet, the Credit Authority and the Rikstrøgdeverket work well. How this work is to be handled is explained in the proposition. What I would like to point out is that the amendment of the law makes it clear that the provision also affects money laundering and makes it an autonomous criminal offence to make money laundering a result of their own criminal offence. Furthermore, the bill will comply with the requirements of Norwegian law under the UN Convention, by criminalising a new §318 of the Penal Code. The Committee agrees with the Ministry's proposal that the maximum penalty be increased to twice as much if the infringement is committed as part of the activities of an organised criminal group. On a general basis, the Committee is committed to intensify efforts to combat economic crime and to strengthen the investigation and administrative effort to detect the black economy, including money laundering. Priority shall be given to the competence of local police authorities and cooperation with tax authorities, social security funds and social authorities. The Committee stresses that ecocrim should be better able to detect and punish actors with financial resources to conceal their crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e733	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 323]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e749	The matter that is being handled here is an important matter, and it seems more remarkable than it has gotten so far. The centre party agrees with the recommendation on the matter and the comments made by the Judicial Committee. As the Committee is quite right in its position, the March 2005 Act on European Company Administration in Storting pointed out that the relocation of companies from Norway could have major consequences in given situations. The Central Party voted against the European Company Act. The same concerns and objections as the Center Party had that time, we still have. With European companies it is in principle as easy to move head offices from Oslo to Warsaw as from Ås to Ski. Such emigration can lead to large tax losses for Norway, and important natural resources can come into foreign ownership and out of Norwegian governance. One of the central parties’ arguments against the laws on European companies was that it would lead to a major distortion of competition between smaller limited liability companies, which are subject to Norwegian tax law, and the large ones, which can benefit from the laws on European companies and thus move their head office to low tax countries in the EU area in order to reduce the impact of taxes, taxes and political decisions. We also meant that there was no need for such a new form of company in Norwegian law. However, we are aware that the majority of Stortinget is of a different opinion and by decision last year has made European companies part of Norwegian law. When the Centre Party now joins the recommendation on European cooperatives, it is inter alia a question of creating equality between the different types of companies. Under the SCE law, Norwegian limited liability companies may convert into European companies under certain conditions. Accordingly, through the legislation currently in force, Norwegian cooperatives will be able to become European cooperatives under certain conditions. The centre party will strongly underline what the Committee says in its comments when it comes to the work of cooperative law. Several hearing bodies call on the Department to create such a law, and the Center Party is aware that this work is given priority. Such a law may have much to say about how the Regulation on European cooperatives should be implemented in Norwegian law, and the Central Party is satisfied that the Ministry will come back to this question in the context of a possible new cooperative law.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e768	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 324]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e784	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 325]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e800	This case concerns two amendments to the military right: equality of service between civil and military guardians and clarification of the principle of freedom of weapons. The size has decided that civil guardians shall be treated in the same way as military guardians. The shortening of the service period from 13 to 12 months is therefore an important step towards following this principle of non-discrimination. It is a unanimous justice that supports this proposal. Civil defence officers are exempted from military service on the basis of increased resistance to the use of violence and weapons. It is therefore important that their convictions be respected also in war and crisis-like situations, and the Committee is therefore pleased that the position and legal position of civil workers in situations of increased preparedness are clarified in the law. The proposal does not imply any change in reality in relation to the law in force. The Progress Party has its own comment in which they express little understanding that some of those who get exemption from military service for reasons of persuasion have private weapons and are active shooters and hunters. On this basis, they suggest that the defence should have access to police weapons records when processing waiver applications. This comment appears to be due to a fundamental misunderstanding of the exemption rules of the military denial law. The content of the law has been clarified by case-law, inter alia: by a number of Judges of the Court of Justice. The applicant is required to have a basic pacifist position. He must therefore oppose the use of violence and weapons in conflict situations. It is not enough for a crew to reserve for its own part only; the crew must also refrain from using violence and weapons as a method of conflict resolution. However, it does not disqualify from the exemption that the crew may consider using weapons in an emergency situation. This provision also provides for the possibility of applying for exemption on so-called nuclear-pasifist basis, but it has no relevance that a crew is active shooters. Nor does it matter that the applicant is a hunter and therefore belongs to harvesting from the abundance of nature. The comments of the Committee of the Progressive Party are not in accordance with the applicable conditions for exemption from military service for reasons of persuasion. Therefore, in conclusion, I would like to ask the representatives of the Progress Party to clarify what they think, as I find it difficult to understand that their proposal that the defence should have access to the police weapons register should be relevant to the handling of exemption requests.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e817	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 326]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e825	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 to 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e833	Mr Svendsen has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e836	As a result of this law, there will be changes in many other laws. The Progress Party has put forward a proposal that calls on the Government to promote the necessary legislative proposals for the Stortinget so that the responsibilities of the municipal social offices are transferred from the municipality to the state and transferred to the NAV offices. The reason for this is that we have asked the Department for legal assistance. We haven't got that. Then we come to the problem that several of the laws that need to be amended in this context contain a reference to the fact that the social offices are municipal. We are, as I said, opposed to the fact that it is municipal social offices, but we agree with the intention of the law. We are going to vote in favour of the legislative amendments, and will come back to a total change of the whole law when we get a response from the Government – if we get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e843	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 2–6, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e884	Here there is an aberrant proposal, No. 2, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 1 The purpose is to read:The aim of the Act is to facilitate effective management of labour and welfare, tailored to the needs of individuals and the labour market and based on the full and coordinated application of the Labour Market Act, the National Social Security Act, the Social Services Act and other laws managed by the Labour and Welfare Administration. The management of labour and welfare shall meet with respect to the individual, contribute to social and economic security and promote transition to work and active activities. The individual beneficiary of benefits has a separate obligation to place his/her labour force/residual labour force at the disposal of him/her.»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e932	Section 3 contains an aberrant proposal, no. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «§3 The State of Labour and Welfare shall be replaced by the following:The Directorate of Labour and Welfare shall chair the activities of the State of Labour and Welfare. The Director of Labour and Welfare has the day-to-day management of the Directorate and is responsible for achieving the objectives of labour efficiency and exploitation. The establishment shall be represented at the locations determined by the directorate, however such that the representation at the local level shall comply with Section 13 cf. Section 14. The Directorate is the controller under Section 2 paragraph of the Data Protection Act. 4 and for the organisation and implementation of the internal control system according to the Personal Information Act § 13 and 14 in relation to the establishment. When information is retrieved from the user's files, it shall be logged and justified. The Ministry may provide for detailed rules governing the processing of personal data in the management of labour and welfare.»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e1065	Section 13 contains an aberrant proposal, no. 1, from the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «§ 13 Joint local offices shall be replaced by the following:The State of Labour and Welfare and the municipalities shall have joint local offices covering all municipalities. The Office shall carry out tasks for the tasks of the establishment and the municipality in accordance with the Social Services Act Chapter 5 and the Introduction Act Chapters 2 and 3. The establishment and the municipality may agree that other services of the municipality should also be included in the office. All NAV offices shall be designed on the basis of the universal design principle.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e1122	The President will then refer to proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 17 shall be replaced by the following:The processing of personal data by the single local office shall be replaced by the following: There are strict requirements to obtain a derogation from this obligation.The Ministry may provide for detailed rules on which exemptions may be granted.Sections 17, 18 and 19 of the proposed act become Sections 18, 19 and 20.» The President will take note of a mistake in the text of this proposal. The following shall not be included in the proposal:
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e3278	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e3288	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e3401	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e3411	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e3419	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Solvency Horne on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, from Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 1 has been included in the configuration, proposal No. 2 is distributed in the representatives' seats in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e3515	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e3525	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e3618	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e3628	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e3840	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e3850	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e3925	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e3935	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e4031	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e4041	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07-lower.ana.ud1182e4052	There is no record available.
