ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e28	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 80 minutes and allocated up to 10 minutes to each party and up to 10 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose to allow for the replacement of lines of up to three lines after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e37	In the light of an exchange of letters between the Control and Constitutional Committee and the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion as well as a number of media releases, the Committee decided at its meeting on 25 April 2006 to initiate preparations for a matter for the EEA on the handling of the so-called MUF cases by the EEAS. The case concerns 197 permits granted under the second paragraph of Section 8 of the Foreign Affairs Act. The permits were granted in these cases to people from Northern Iraq who previously had a temporary permit that did not form the basis for a residence permit or family reunification. A self-appointed government commission has examined UDI’s handling of these cases and submitted an interim report on 22 May. Verification of the case was carried out on 1 June of this year. There is unanimity on the main lines of the committee's position, and I expect the respective fractions that have special comments to present them in the debate. It is politicians, not officials and administrative officials, who are responsible for managing refugee, asylum and immigration policy. This is the very core of this matter. It is a fundamental feature of our governance that the Council of State is constitutionally responsible for the policies pursued in that part of central government. A government may be removed by election or mistrust from the Storting if there is qualified dissatisfaction with the policy pursued. This does not apply to administrative officials and officials. It is therefore essential to establish management systems to ensure that the mandate given to the management through laws, regulations and instructions is followed up. The aim of the Committee in this matter is to ensure secure political governance in this field and the best possible management of foreigners with confidence in people, and not to make changes in foreign policy in this context. Political governance depends on the dissemination of information essential to policy-making to policy-makers. The UDI reporting obligation is specified repeatedly by the Department against UDI. In spite of this, the investigation carried out and the open consultation show that the reporting obligation has been breached in this case. The UDI should have reported on the practice they provided in dealing with the so-called MUF cases under the second paragraph of Section 8 of the Foreign Affairs Act. An overall committee finds the lack of reporting very critical. Our democratic people's rule depends on a loyal follow-up in the administration of the laws given by the Stortinget, as well as the rules and instructions given by the Government and the ministries as executive. The Graver Commission's report describes the UDI practice in dealing with the MUF issues as 'clearly contrary to political intentions'. The UDI itself concludes in its letter of 13 March 2006 that it did not comply with the ‘clear political intentions’. The Committee takes a serious view that the UDI did not follow up the political leadership of the Department in dealing with these matters. The employees’ representatives explained during the audit hearing on 1 June that the UDI had a practice which was based on management, that the case should be settled in the applicant’s favour in cases of doubt. The Committee considers that such a practice is to intervene in the field of politics and involves a policy approach for the exercise of discretion in the proceedings – if one ignores the leadership of the UN High Commissioner in matters of protection. In this context, the members of the Progress Party shall promote a proposal for the Storting to ask the Government to ensure that the UDI is duly refused in respect of applications for asylum, residence, family reunification and the like. During the hearing on 1 June, it was also found that the UDI practice in dealing with asylum seekers with uncertain identities has not been in line with the Ministry’s leadership that there should be no permanent residence in Norway if the identity is in doubt. Even after the then State Councillor Erna Solberg informed the Stortinget of the practice in such cases, which was not consistent with the practice actually followed in the UDI, UDI’s practice continued, despite the fact that employees of the UDI’s national and housing unit also struck the alarm through a longer note to their closest superiors. The Committee considers this to be serious. Both UDI's practice towards asylum seekers with uncertain identity and in doubt and the MUF cases testifies to an unclear understanding of the role of UDI's management of the area of administration and of the policy area. The Committee considers this to be serious and critical. In the legal environment, there have been differing views as to whether the UDI’s treatment of the MUF cases under the second paragraph of Section 8 of the Foreign Affairs Act was illegal. In this context, the Committee does not consider that any further consideration should be given to this discussion. Regardless of what might be done in such a legal assessment, the Committee considers it critical that the management of the directorate was aware of the fact that the boundaries were pushed far, yet failed to do something further to find out where the boundaries were going, or to ensure that the proceedings remained on the right side of the border. General emphasis on policy-sensitive issues is of greater importance. Like the Graver Commission, the Committee considers that it is striking that the Directorate did not stop further examination of the MUF cases until 8 March 2006, although the Ministry expressed disagreement on the practice already at a contact meeting on 2 February 2006. Former Director Manuela Ramin-Osmundsen explained in the hearing on 1 June 2006 that the message from the department was not clear and went into an informal room, while at the same hearing the Minister of Labour and Inclusion felt that the message from the department was clear enough. The Committee considers that this demonstrates a need for clearer procedures in the management dialogue and that it is written and easily traceable. A joint committee asks the question whether not both the responsible state councils should be more confident that these procedures worked well, because of the recognition they had, and because of a central policy area such as refugee and immigration policy. These issues are part of the sub-positioning 2 theme of the Graver Committee, and therefore the Committee has not gone further in this aspect of the matter now. The critical conditions identified cannot be ignored or dismissed. They call for political action. An overall committee expects the Ministry to take overall responsibility for the organisation of the administration of non-residents, in the context of the division of roles between the various bodies provided for by legislation, which takes account of the need for political governance and control. It must focus on management, governance dialogue, process, role understanding and culture. A clear mandate must be given to the management of the directorate, and the department must follow up more closely over a period of time than is usual in an ongoing operational situation. The Committee feels that there is a need for improved governance dialogue and clearer procedures for a traceable and clear communication between the ministry and the directorate. The management systems and management procedures need to be improved. The Committee asks the Ministry to follow this up and to report back on the actions undertaken in the context of the 2007 State Budget. The Committee also calls for the Ministry to carry out a critical review of its own competences, capabilities and resources to ensure proper control of a complex and complex field of competence such as the administration of foreigners. It is very important, both for individual applicants and for society, that the duration of proceedings in the UDI is not excessive. In recent years, a strong effort has been made in the UDI to reduce the duration of proceedings, and this has also been recognised through the consultation process. It's a work that's still important. At the same time, it is important that the quality of the treatment is high and that this is also addressed by the reporting and evaluation of results. The Committee asks the Ministry to consider whether there is a need to strengthen the UDI resource in order to achieve this. This case has revealed a clear need to ensure a good understanding of the roles of both managers and case handlers. The Committee is in favour of a separate role committee or similar arrangement where representatives of the ministry and the directorate can discuss what is in the various roles. The Committee also calls on the State Councils to follow the developments in practice in this area and to ensure that the newly established UNGROUND becomes an effective tool to ensure equal treatment at all levels of foreign management. A safe and open governance culture and a good working environment in the UDI must be pursued. It is important that objections and criticisms are not stopped at the lowest level of leadership but brought to the fore for evaluation and clarification. The Committee asks the Ministry to consider carrying out a new work environment study in the UDI. The second part of the work of the Graver Committee shall include a more general review of responsibilities and anchoring in the design of UDI practices. Where the review so warrants, proposals for amendments shall also be submitted in different areas. The Committee expects the Ministry to carefully assess the report and the measures it is taking and to request that the Stortinget in St.prp. No 1 will be briefed on the follow-up to the work of the sample as well as the setting of the Stortinget today. In this case, the most important thing for me as the case-rapporteur has been to seek lessons, not to seek scapegoats. I believe that there is a lot of learning in the setting, both for the department and the directorate in this particular case. I want to be so free to say that I think there is also a lot of learning for departments and directorates in general. Therefore, it is my hope that this case will lead to something positive for the Norwegian administration, even if the starting point is serious and negative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e90	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for solid and coherent work on this setting, and also because, at the hearing as the first speaker, he made a real tone and made the predictions in the media that this would be barbecue and circus, thoroughly ashamed. The core of this case is the relationship between politics and administration. It is not about whether we should have a strict or a rough immigration policy. It is about trust that the administration implements the decisions taken by the Government, in line with the political leadership given, and within the framework drawn up, where there must be room for discretion. This is what is at the heart of the matter, and therefore there is an overall committee that finds it critical that the UDI in the handling of the 197 so-called MUF cases went beyond the political leadership of the department. The reporting obligation is central to the interaction between policy and management. In this case, UDI did not comply with that obligation, which is subsequently recognised, both by former Director Trygve Nordby and by then constituted Director Manuela Ramin-Osmundsen. And it is this that provides the basis for the committee's serious wording'very critical'. This sharp criticism is also based on the fact that, within the UDI, questions were raised about its practices in line with the provisional regulation. Once the question had been raised, management should have provided a clarification with the ministry to make sure that the political intentions behind the regulation were on the right side. The essence of this matter is principle, and therefore the criticism is strong and justified. When this matter has received so much attention in the media, the reason is not just this principleal side. The scandal, as it is often called in our day about mistakes that are being made, is also due to the fact that it has occurred in a politically sensitive area. When I started working as a journalist in the 1970s, there was something called "Jesus Recursion Letters". They were never in use that time. Today they are in daily use in many newspapers, without the repetition having occurred. These letters were also used in this case. Therefore, I would like to say that they follow the error that was made, which is not that 197 has been given a permanent stay on an improper basis. What they have been granted is an authorisation to work and support themselves, or to stay in reception for one year. I'm not saying this to dampen the strength of the criticism a unanimous committee is behind. There is no mitigating circumstance in the fact that management goes beyond political leadership, that the adverse effects are limited, but this is part of the picture when we are going to assess what might deserve the word «candal» in this case. I believe that much of this has been learned throughout the UDI system – that the care given in relation to the political leadership is strengthened, and that both management and procedural procedures will be improved. Then it is reassuring to know that the cost of this learning is limited, immigration policy. There is another fact that was revealed during the examination of this case, which is far more serious, namely the fact that, contrary to political leadership, UDI granted permanent residence to asylum seekers with unknown identity. With this case, the UDI has received a strong and critical search light. Criticical practices have been identified in relation to policy signals and there is a need to improve management practices and procedures. However, it has also emerged that significant improvements have been made in the UDI over the past four–five years, which were in serious difficulties in 2001, among others. with excessive length of proceedings. At that time, the main political task was to bring production up and process time down. This has been a great success for the UDI. The fact that in such a process of conversion and change, which was necessary, both frustration and malpractice occur before internal procedures and good practice are in place is not abnormal. There is still a great deal to be improved, and the Committee also points to some of the main principles that should underpin this work in the future, as the rapporteur did very carefully. Here, too, the next report of the Graver Committee will provide important input for improvement. The basis for good communication and reporting procedures between a department and an administrative body is, of course, also a responsibility for the department. So here the Graver report pointed out that even though a lot was done, it wasn't enough. That is why the committee also addresses a small index to both former municipal minister Erna Solberg and current state councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. They could both do more to make sure that the good communication and reporting procedures were adequate. A little about the proposals and comments of the Progress Party. The party obviously needs to use other and stronger words to substantiate the Committee's common criticism. This is a need for labelling that can serve only one purpose: to involve immigration policy content as a sounding point in the real heart of this matter. It may not be for the purpose of carrying out the control task of the Storting. There is probably more hope that there may still be points to pick up polls by playing on xenophobia and prejudices. The Progress Party proposes that the UDI Directorship be converted into a position of office. There's a debate you can take. However, in that case the control committee has examined, there is no lack of coherence between the critical value that has occurred and the colour of the UDI Director's passport. When the representative of the Progress Party in the control committee Carl I. Hagen raised this in a TV 2 interview, he said the following – and I quote from a print: ‘There shall be no doubt as to the loyalty of the country of origin and the link to the history and tradition of the Norwegian people and the care of the interests of that country. If you are an immigrant from another country with family and roots elsewhere, questions can be asked about where you have your loyalty.’ This is a rather gross insinuation that immigrants, in order to use Hagen’s own words, which take positions in the Norwegian administration, may be disloyal to their employer, because they have thus grown up outside Norway. And then this is added in the setting to a proposal that all positions with instructional authority in the UDI should be filled with what I would call the rotted Norwegians. In addition to the fact that this would be contrary to the principles of the EEA Agreement, it is to be disregarded that there is also a principle of stability in Norwegian administration, which, of course, also applies in the UDI. But the core of these proposals from the Progress Party is to also use this case to play on the immigration card. It's done with customary subtlety. Here, the fine art of the suggestion is used to say something that's really quite unfinded, that trust in this society is something we can only be sure to have between ethnic Northmen. This is not about the loyalty of an employer, but to the country of origin, nothing less. This is about ‘the interests of this country’, but the Progress Party has not responded and found reason to raise questions about Danish Poul Engberg-Pedersen can be trusted by this country’s interests in providing assistance as the NORAD Chief. I had hoped that Carl I. Hagen would use the occasion given by this debate, to ask all the immigrants who work in Norway, for an excuse for the insinuation he has thrown at them through the question of where they might have their loyalty. There are over 220 000 of them in this country. But on the basis of the suggestions made in the vote, I understand that he will not fulfill my hope that he will show the greatness to people who have come to Norway to contribute either in value-creating work or in Norwegian administration – people who, through the play of the Advancement Party, have been completely unfoundedly thrown over the edge of suspicion. The Progress Party has established its own party teams in Spain, where many thousands of Nordics benefit daily from the integration and reduction of borders that have taken place in Europe over 50 years. Down there, the members of the Progress Party and other Nordics are treated as if they were Spanish – although not everyone shows the willingness to adapt and integrate into the Spanish community, for example. learning Spanish. Down there is the message from the Progress Party that the Spaniards should learn Norwegian, so that they can take care of us when we need nursing homes down there. At home, the message to the immigrants is that we are not sure if we can trust you, because you have the wrong color on the passport and are not related to the history and tradition of the Norwegian people. This is probably an example of the political Janus face of the Progress Party. And there's no appealing face.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e152	Let me first join the opening words of Svein Roald Hansen in commending the case rapporteur, Dagfinn Højbräten, and that the heart of the matter when the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee started its proceedings and decided to raise a case was the relationship between administration and political management. I am very pleased that it is a co-ordinated increase that underlines the importance of our constitutional system that governance should follow the decisions taken in the main, in government and in the department, and that it is the political decisions, the leaderships and the instructions that should be the basis for decisions, implementation, interpretation and use of laws, regulations, instructions, etc. It's absolutely fundamental. In many societies, for example: After a choice and a change of government, very many, both in directorates and departments, are changing places. So there are many politicians, for example. in the United States and also in other countries, which enter the departments. It is relatively limited in Norway, although there has been dramatic growth in the last 25 years in the number of State Secretaries, Advisers, etc. with a political background which has entered the departments. This is the whole basis of governance in Norway. That's the nucleus. We all in this house agree to underline it, and especially when it was revealed that this was not the case in the Foreign Affairs Directorate. Through the hearing, it is our opinion that there was a clear additional dimension to the matter. We have had clear debates in this House many times on asylum policy, refugee policy and immigration policy. There are shared views between the parties – with SV and the Progress Party on each side, and maybe Left with SV. We in the Progress Party want a strict immigration policy, a strict practice of our laws and regulations, while the SV and the Left want a liberal – what we call genius – practice. That's a political question. It is the policy to determine the practice and the policy to be implemented. What has been revealed by the consultation is that this area has in fact been privatised. It hasn't been big business, government or department that's been running. It has been, as expressed by the trust-elect of the Legal Association of the Directorate of Foreign Affairs, the Director of the Directorate of Foreign Affairs, who has decided on this very clear political issue. Because it becomes a political issue when a case handler dealing with an application for asylum, family reunification, residence or protection on a humanitarian basis has to decide that matter. Is the political instruction that if there is doubt, the application should be granted, or is it that if there is doubt, it should be rejected? That's the political question. So it's never been presented to the department. It has been defined by the Director of the Directorate for Foreign Affairs. I asked Stein Wik about the following in the hearing: ‘Was it one – let’s say – a guideline that was in the form of a law, a regulation, an instruction from the ministry, or did one understand that this was an instruction from the UDI’s management?’ Stein Wik replied: ‘We had an understanding that it was an instruction or an order from UDI’s Director.’ There was, as he said earlier, a sun clear message: If you were in doubt, the application would be accepted. That's why, after the hearing has ended, we have addressed this. It was the first time the Stortinger was told that the practice in the Foreign Affairs Directorate was that if you are in doubt, the application should be granted. If the Storting is of a different opinion, shall we then wait until there comes a matter from the Government to the harvest by intervening and saying from now on? We think it's natural that the thing then gets a new dimension. That is our reason for our proposal that the instructions should be: if you are in doubt, the applications should be rejected. It is as far as the same Stein Wik was inward, for he pointed out in the hearing the absolutely right thing that if UDI refuses an application, it is actually a safety valve through an appeal to the Foreigner's Office. Then you get a new treatment, like a safety valve. But if the clever line is that you grant applications that should have actually been rejected – and a lot might also suggest it – a refusal that UNE, i.e. the Foreign Study, would also have confirmed, then it will not come to the Foreign Study. It stops, because no one complains that they have received their application. It's, in our opinion, to the most extent a political question. That is why we are promoting this proposal. I fully agree with both Dagfinn Høybråten and Svein Roald Hansen that at first this was not a topic. However, when the procedure and consultation reveal relatively important things, namely that the crucial political issue of being kind or strict, is actually privatised, then it is time for the Stortinge to say something. I also have a question for the Council of State, because in the hearing, Stein Wik also referred to ethical guidelines in the UDI that were developed in Trygve Nordby's time. He referred to the following under the point of loyalty in the work situation: ‘There is room for counter performances before a decision is taken. Employees have the right and the duty to refuse if they are ordered to do something that is clearly illegal or clearly immoral. This right shall not exist in the event of a professional disagreement or disagreement as to the political objectives of the activity.’;» So the political goal was what Trygve Nordby had to say: if you have any doubts, you have to accept the application. It is not certain that this is just about 197 applicants. There may be many, many – several hundred – who have been illegally granted their applications, where perhaps a more thorough and better procedure would have meant that they would not have been allowed to stay. That is why we have addressed that proposal. What we also think, is absolutely amazing, is how this could go past some of the management of the UDI when questions were raised in autumn 2004 to Erna Solberg from Per Sandberg in Stortinget's Question Time about this. There was then a letter sent to the management – on the top of the line – on 18 pages, because – as it says in this letter – they were unsure whether the department knew, as it says: ‘This uncertainty was no less as we observed that the Council of State in Stortingen’s Question Time expressed a understanding of the rules that we do not follow in practice. It may appear that the competent authorities are not aware that the practice is to grant these cases.’;» That not the alarm bells then went throughout the top management in UDI! Then you began to realize that you would be taken on the peach, to say it like that. This would be grounds for dismissal for a director, if he had still been there, when he had been made aware that the Council of State – due to his or her lack of information to the department – was standing on the pulpit of the Storting and led the Storting behind the light. It was discovered, it was said from, but nothing happened at all until the case appeared much, much later. That's why we've promoted the one proposal that Svein Roald Hansen had a lot to say about. So at the end of the last proposal. We're probably going to have a lot of debates if we're still going to reserve posts for Norwegian citizens. We believe that, in particular in the Foreign Affairs Directorate, which decides whether to grant a work permit, residence, asylum and protection to foreigners in Norway, it is quite natural that such a position should be exercised by Norwegian citizens. We're talking about Norwegian citizens, and all Norwegian citizens are just as good, whether they've become Norwegian citizens after coming here, or whether they're at the time of birth. We haven't separated that. And if Svein Roald Hansen had taken the trouble to see the entire 9-minute interview with me on TV 2, where they sent about. 30 seconds, and looking at the questions, he would realize that all the accusations he now brought are completely wrong. But we are also aware that the Workers' Party is doing what they can to swear us in any context where we are trying to get a substantive exchange of views. So we'll take note of that. So said Svein Roald Hansen that this would be contrary to the spirit of EEA law. It's not. Part III, on the free movement of persons, services and capital, Chapter 1, Article 28(4), states: ‘The provisions of this Article shall not apply to posts in the public administration.’;» UDI is a public administration and it is in fact fully in accordance with the EEA Agreement. But after the post that Svein Roald Hansen made, I look forward to the Workers' Party proposing to repeal part of the Constitution, among others. Section 92, which requires Norwegian citizenship for positions of office. For the consequence of what he said, he must be against any discrimination between Norwegian and non-nationals in the Norwegian administration. I allow myself to comment on the three suggestions in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e206	The representative Carl I. Hagen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e209	Let me begin by congratulating the rapporteur of the matter both for the vote and for the hearing, for the implementation of it, and also for the contribution that was made here today, which also covers my view. That's why I'm going to be brief. Fortunately, this case and the strong criticism which is being addressed here to officials and officials is an exception in the Norwegian administration. Norwegian administration is of high quality, and loyalty is a continuous trait. But in this case, it is obvious that you have not informed, and you have not informed, and you knew that you did not inform where you should have done so. That is what is the basis for the strong criticism that lies in the Graver Committee, among other things. with the wording ‘very critical’, is also accepted by a unanimous committee. There is clearly something wrong either with attitudes or with systems when, in a report by a number of UDI employees, the UDI has now provided the State Council – then the Solberg Council – with information that is contrary to what we are doing. It's one of the most serious a government agency can do. I myself know how the departments and departments make every effort to be embarrassingly correct in everything that is to be passed on to the Stortinget, but not in this matter. Then it's my conclusion that something about attitudes or something about the system has obviously failed in the UDI. But that is not the basis for, in my opinion, the opinion expressed by the representative Hagen in the last article, namely that in general all matters have been dealt with incorrectly, on the basis of a kind of directive on: In doubt – say yes. It is true that one employee representative felt that there was a tendency to do so. But neither the Graver Committee nor the whole of the hearing, in my opinion, provides the basis for such a bastant to establish it. Now there's a new report from the Graver Committee. They will deal with other matters and in more fundamental matters relating to the organisation of the UDI in relation to the ministry. So we'll see. The second proposal from the Progress Party, which stands out, namely that the Director should be made an official, I do not understand where this has been taken from. There's no trace of indications in the Graver Committee, either in the hearing, that it would make sense. Then you give an instruction that case-handling positions at a certain level should be reserved for Norwegian citizens. To me, it is incomprehensible and unfounded. In principle, I also think it is important to say that all three proposals go beyond the limits of what the Storting should do in relation to the government of the state. Some responsibilities are assigned to the Council of State. We're going to do something about the results, but it's the state council that controls its offices, to say it like that. I think all three proposals here go beyond that limit. We will govern by law decisions, not by interfering in how to organise the state's activities elsewhere. In addition, I have to say that the proposal that non-Norwegian case handlers, as well as non-citizens, should not be employed there, I do not find any justification for that either in the hearing, in the public debate in general or in the Graver Committee – at least in it. As far as I'm aware, there are a number of employees in the UDI who have different citizenship. Of course, there's no legal intrusion in itself. And for the record, I'm well aware that UDI practices a system so that case handlers can't deal with matters from their own country as an extra security measure, which means you're on the absolutely safe side. I think that is a very satisfactory practice. The dangerous thing about this proposal seems to me to be the impression you try to give, namely that loyalty to the employer is something that is reserved for ethnic Nordics. It's not.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e228	I will also agree that we have had a case rapporteur who has had an objective and orderly way of leading this matter. I'm also glad that the hearing took place in a good way, in a very factual and beautiful way. I want to start by reflecting a little bit on this with the directorates, of whom we've been getting more in Norway in the last few years. Several of the previous speakers have also addressed the needs of the Directorates to be loyal to the direction signals coming from collapse, government and department. It's a big challenge. This does not apply only to the Foreign Affairs Directorate. Also in a number of other directorates there will always be grey areas for the exercise of judgement and not for the exercise of judgement. I'm not going to draw up any other directorate, but we know that in a number of cases we've seen a significant exercise of discretion in the Directorates, which should of course be based on regulations or management signals from the Departments, but which are sometimes in this grey zone. In recent years, we've had a lot more directorates as well. And that means in a way that we, as politicians, have said that we want to give up part of the power to the directorates. One of the most complicated directorates we have, I think, is the Foreign Affairs Directorate. It's complicated, because first of all, there's a huge number of demanding issues in the Directorate of Foreign Affairs that have to be addressed. There are issues about human creatures, and there are issues that are unusually complicated, both in relation to documentation and in relation to getting real insight into what matters are about. So when a new director was employed in 2001, the Foreign Affairs Directorate was in a situation where production was small, and the cases had accumulated significantly. So when Trygve Nordby was put on that job, there was one clear order he got, and it was that he had to get up production and get several things through quickly in the directorate. This was meant in the hearings, and it was thought by the state councils that we had had at the hearings that Trygve Nordby actually succeeded. He entered a foreign directorate that did not function satisfactorily, and actually cleaned it up. I think it's important to bring it into this picture, that it happened. The main question raised in the Graver report is that the Directorate for Foreign Affairs should have informed and clarified with the Department of this matter. The director also says that he afterwards regrets that this did not happen, and sees that it was wrong. We agree with everyone, both the employees, the state councils, the management and others who have expressed their opinion on this, that it should have happened. So essentially, we agree. But then the Graver report also takes up some other issues that I would like to comment on. It points, inter alia, to: that there has been in some way an unculture in the UDI. SV appears to be based on a very thin basis. One refers to an old work environment survey, one refers to an interview with a few people, and then one concludes that there has been an unculture that has somehow become established. We can't agree that there has been any unculture in the UDI. It's been an organization in great change, with very demanding things. So it was just to be lacking that there is no cause for concern when you put pressure on production and you still have to grab hold to satisfy the political orders that have arrived. I believe that the Graver report should have done much more in-depth work to allow those affected, among other things. get the chance to speak up and make their judgements, instead of bombastically establishing some things that, in my opinion, are too thinly justified. I believe that the Graver report takes too little account of the complexity that I just pointed out at the beginning of my speech, that there are extremely demanding issues here and a large production demand from the politicians. Who, then, is responsible for this particular matter? It is obvious that the Directorate of Foreign Affairs is responsible for just putting it in place. But it is that between a department and a directorate there is a two-way communication. And if a department is in a situation where you think that things might not work well enough, then it's also up to that department to contact its directorate to establish that communication, so that you can get things in place if you're in no interest and it doesn't work. We are very pleased that we have a government council that looks ahead, and that has addressed these problems. I have brought a note to the pulpit to quote the State Council, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, who, in his concluding speech to the hearing – which he otherwise performed in an excellent way – said the following: «But I will once again stress, as I did in my first introduction, that the purpose of saying it is not to look for scapegoats. My purpose is not to try to hit the previous Council of State. My purpose is not to try to hit the department or UDI. My purpose is just once again to focus on what we now have to do." I think Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen deserves tribute for being kind of busy looking forward, so that you actually avoid this kind of thing in the future. Finally, I must comment on the third proposal of the Progress Party. I believe – like previous speakers – that this is the lead cause of the Progress Party, which is playing on fear of alienation and is actually imposing a ban on some people in Norway. I have full confidence that you – whether you are Turkish or French – are professional and that you are loyal to the workplace you are, whether it is UDI or elsewhere. I have to say that this is a proposal that does not belong at all in this matter, and I had hoped that Carl I. Hagen – as the experienced politician he is – would have been able to say that you are drawing this proposal. I don't expect that to happen, but I've hoped for it, because the proposal expresses a human vision that you really just have to distance yourself from. It is now the case that if we were to begin to carry on with the thinking that the Progress Party has, many of the Nordics who are abroad would actually say to themselves, 'Think if we were to be treated the same way!' Imagine if we should be suspected – if we work abroad – of not being good enough workers because we are Norwegian citizens and live abroad! It's kind of a bit of the idea that I see the Progress Party and Carl I. Hagen should take with him when you promote such a proposal in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e257	UDI says dealing with the so-called MUF cases is interesting, because it has led to a wide and deep change of words about the distinction between politics and administration, between political responsibility and administrative understanding. As our parliamentary system has evolved for a long time, it is constitutional custom for the Storting to know only the Council of State. At the same time, the decisions, instructions and instructions of the Council of State shall be followed up loyally and to the point and point of his or her duties and the underlying levels. The Committee’s treatment of UDI cases has contributed to clarify this. I would also give tribute to the case-speaker, Højbräten, for his factual and good emphasis on important cornerstones when it relates to the way our representative democracy works. The essence of this matter and of what the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has criticised is that UDI did not inform the Department and the Council of its new practice and its assessments of human dignity. In retrospect, the directorate also has self-criticism about the lack of such information. The information obligation is central, and a committee has pointed out that this obligation should have been followed up in a completely different way in connection with the so-called MUF cases. There is good reason to believe that the Stortinget’s criticism leads to a sharp increase both in the department and in external offices on the importance of good communication flows, reliable management practices and respect for political responsibilities. At the same time, I don't want to hide that the center party thinks this matter has been somewhat oversized. When I asked the selection leader, Graver, if the selection had made any assessment of the size of the selection, he replied. following: ‘I do not know if the case is so large that it deserves the resources that have been spent on it in total. I might put a question mark on that." Errors and omissions can occur without it implying short systematic unculture or disloyalty to political governance. UDI cases are serious in themselves, but they do not form the basis for general conclusions that UDI has generally been outraged and characterised by illicit daily operations. The case has, however, given rise to a new discussion about the management of the foreign field. The centre party wishes to welcome the discussion. We look forward to interim report 2. We also look forward to the Ministry following up on this issue of action, both in terms of the organisation and political governance and control of this important field of Norwegian society. The size discussed the management ratios of the foreign field both in June 2004, in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 21 for 2003–04, and last spring, in connection with the treatment of Ot.prp. No 31 for 2004-2005. I find reason to remind you that in a comment in the setting, a plurality in the then municipal committee, the Labour Party, the Progress Party, SV and the Centre pointed out that there is an unused room for political governance through regulation by clearer clarification of key interventions such as: ‘strong human concern’ and ‘special concern’. It was only the SV and the Central Party that suggested that such a regulation should be drawn up, and that was when Bondevik II got several figures for the proposal to introduce an access for the Ministry to give general instructions to the UDI on interpretation and the practice of the skin. Majority representatives, state councils and prominent civil servants play central roles in Norwegian society and not least in Norwegian public opinion. They must therefore tola both public criticism and critical searchjos. Public investigations are particularly involved in this. The Graver Commission is no exception in this way. We should probably all think that such public investigation commissions represent an extraordinary form of distribution. Furthermore, as stated in the circular ‘Commissions for Examination Rules’, public investigation commissions should only be used ‘in cases where the competent authority is clear that the Commission’s proceedings are the best solution compared to other options for investigation’. The UDI case required such an examination. At the same time, it is an important lesson that several of those involved have made very critical comments on how this matter has actually been examined. It is easy to agree with the criticism that has been made that the time was short, which in part led many to believe that both legal certainty and party rights have not been sufficiently guaranteed. This is serious, and it should be called for even more caution when new investigation commissions may be appointed in the future. I welcome, like a joint committee, the Government's review of the guidelines underpinning public scrutiny. Those that are now in force will return to 1975. Society has changed significantly since then. In particular, the media has acquired or assumed a different role. To a greater extent than before, the media itself has seen the agenda and is driving things forward. This is sometimes very positive, but it happens that the back of the medal – as one has experienced in this case – is personalized scandalous me with a gapstock function. The overall role of the media should be taken into account when the public review guidelines are to be considered. Then everyone who has spoken commented on the Progress Party's three proposals. I agree with what has been said to them, both from the case-speaker, from the Right, from the Labour Party and from the SV. My recommendation to the Progress Party is that they draw these three suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e290	Of course, I have listened very carefully here tonight, and I use the opportunity to thank you for the factual and important input I have made in relation to my further work. In my closing post during the hearing I asked questions as to whether the so-called MUF case corresponds to the seriousness of the matter and the apparatus we have put in place to penetrate it. That evening my conclusion was quite clear: this has actually been necessary. We've been informed and discussed basic principles in the relationship between politics and management, and we've done it in such a way that I think it has positive effects far beyond what concerns this specific matter. I have noticed the Committee's clarification that our democratic People's Government is totally dependent on the administration's loyal follow-up to the laws given by the National Assembly, as well as the rules and instructions given by the Government as executive. This is what I have always said is at the heart of the matter. With the management system laid down in the foreign field, it is a prerequisite that the ministry is up-to-date with regard to practices and possible changes of practice in the UDI, and it assumes that the UDI is loyal to the reporting obligation. The Committee of Inquiry has clearly demonstrated that this has not been the case in the case in question, and it is also satisfied that there is a breach of the information obligation in the case of the 197 MUF applications. The Committee expects the Ministry to take overall responsibility for the organisation of foreign management to meet the need for political governance and control. In Part 2, the Graver Commission shall in particular assess the need for changes in governance dialogue, regulation or guidance to ensure that UDI practices comply with the applicable law, regulation and instruction. I can assure you that the Department now and in the extension of the Graver Commission report will follow up where it is based. Work is already under way within the Department and the UDI focusing on the governance dialogue, role understanding, competence and capacity. I refer here to the measures I outlined during the hearing on 1 June. The size will be briefed on the work of presenting the 2007 budget. I look seriously at the facts that have been revealed. However, there is also reason to stress that many aspects of the work of the Directorate for Foreign Affairs work well today. Among other things, the length of proceedings in foreign affairs has been reduced in recent years. The same applies to the number of residues. Much effort has also been made in recent years to improve the service and accessibility of UDI to users and the general public. In the future, I see a clear need to ensure that we have good procedures for quality assurance of the directorate's discretion. I will carry out a thorough review of both the reporting procedures and the reporting criteria. The Ministry sent a letter last April imposing a comprehensive reporting obligation on UDI in relation to changes in practice. The letter clearly states a requirement for written information. This has also been included in the 2006 UDI allocation letter. However, I see that there is a need for further review of the procedures and to clarify to an even greater extent to the UDI how reporting should be done. I want to go to St.prp. No 1 come back to what concrete measures are being taken in this context, but I can already inform you that there will be precise letters to the UDI both in terms of the form of the reports and the criteria to be reported on. The Ministry’s feedback practices will also be discussed. I have also asked UDI's Director-General to present a plan for what can and should be done internally in the UDI. The Director has started a review of the management systems of the Directorate in order to ensure that practices are consistent with current policies, legislation and guidelines. UDI shall also review its reporting procedures to the Ministry. Good governance with practice is a demanding task. UDI performs approx. 70000 decisions each year, and there are many different types of cases and issues. I will, as the Committee also points out, carry out a critical review of the department's competence and capacity to ensure better control of the field. The Committee has asked the Ministry to ensure that the newly established UNGROUND becomes an effective tool for ensuring non-discrimination at all levels of non-resident management. I am concerned that we are going to have an active use of the grandma to ensure a consistent practice and equal treatment of cases. The ministry continuously assesses whether there are matters and cases that it is natural to bring in for brilliance, and we will try to contribute to the active use of this. The Committee calls for greater publicity about UDI's practice in asylum matters and calls for the Ministry to facilitate the preparation of regularly updated practical descriptions. I agree that transparency around practice is important. I have therefore already asked the UDI to start work on facilitating that the practice of the directorate is made available to the public. At the same time, I understand that a high level of detailing of public practice notes can be misused, for example. by means of a tailor-made application. However, in cooperation with the UDI, I want to look at how we can ensure greater transparency around practice in the future, without opening up to such abuse. The Progress Party promotes three own proposals in the vote. Two of them are concerned with ensuring that positions in the UDI are reserved to Norwegian citizens. For me, it is a strange connection to link issues of stability in the procedure to citizenship. For this government, it is an objective that the State labour force should as far as possible reflect the diversity of the population. It is important to achieve a balanced age and gender composition and to recruit people with a migrant background for central jobs. Of course, this also applies to UDI. For executive positions in particular, the most important thing for me is that the director of a directorate such as UDI is the one who is the most qualified. If, in addition to being the best skilled, he has a migrant background, I just see it as a plus. In the opinion of the Department, the proposal of the Progress Party will also conflict with the obligations arising from the EEA Agreement. I would like to stress that the UDI has clear ethical guidelines, including on stability, for dealing with matters under the Foreign Affairs Act and the National Act. This applies to all employees, whether or not they are Norwegian citizens, and I am therefore pleased that the proposals of the Progress Party are not supported by the majority of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e326	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e329	My first question is: how can the Council of State claim that it would be contrary to the EEA Agreement when, in Part III, the Free movement of persons, services and capital, Chapter 1, Article 28(4) states: ‘The provisions of this Article shall not apply to posts in the public administration.’;» So you have to treat it the same way. It shall not apply to posts in the public administration. My other question is whether the Council of State will take some initiative or can clarify the UDI practice in dealing with issues where there is doubt. Stein Wik said in the hearing: ‘In this respect, I can say – I guess that was something that was mentioned in the hearing here earlier – that you should not spend too much time on matters. If you were in doubt about saying yes or no, the message was ready. Our members perceived the message as being sun-drenched. Were you in doubt, then yes. If you meant anything else, you could in a way risk being told that maybe that's not what you should think – to say it like that." Is this a practice which the Council of State considers should be continued, or has the Council of State taken the necessary initiative to change this practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e349	Firstly, according to the EEA Agreement, it is not possible to claim Norwegian citizenship for all positions in general government. No, it's not. No matter how much Carl I. Hagen nods, it's not like that. The EEA Agreement opens up the possibility for some special posts to choose to discriminate against EEA citizens. But the general understanding of the EEA Agreement, as it is understood both by us and by Europe, is that it will be discriminatory. Therefore, our assessment is quite clear that the proposal that the Progress Party has promoted will be contrary to the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e354	The Council of State gave a thorough and sound account of the actions undertaken and planned by the Ministry and the assessments now carried out in the UDI on the follow-up to this important and serious matter. What I would like to ask the Council of State is linked to a comment made by the Committee on page 13 of the vote, where a unanimous committee says: «A clear mandate must be given to the management of the directorate and the ministry must over a period of time follow up this task more closely than is usual in an operating situation.» I would like the Council of State to confirm to Stortinget that he will not only give commission, but that he and the Department will also have a close and accurate report and feedback from the UDI, and a follow-up to that feedback for a period of time, until you are assured that the conditions that have been revealed are cleared up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e366	I think it is absolutely in our interests to establish a closer follow-up and dialogue with the directorate in a normal situation. My experience is that the directorate itself is interested in getting it in place. I think that both we and the directorate are equally interested in the fact that the department and the directorate will not be in a similar situation again. There are a lot of good people both in the directorate and in the department who have experienced it as a very demanding thing we've now been through. Fortunately, I believe that we are now jointly choosing to look ahead and are busy finding systems, control procedures and feedback procedures that ensure that we do not get back to where we have been. That is why what the Committee recommends is in line with what we ourselves think.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e373	I understand that it is not possible for the Council of State to answer in one minute on a line, so he will have another chance on my second question. It was something he said in his statement, that it was important to look at UDI's discretion and practice in a number of areas, and I am pleased that the Council of State will do so; it was also revealed in the hearing. It was at least the impression of the lawyers' trust elected, and I referred to something Stein Wik said. The question must, of course, be policy, whether it is a good policy or a strict immigration policy. We have had enough of examples in this debate as well: the Progress Party stands for a strict immigration policy, while others stand for what can be called a good immigration policy. The question is whether it is the case handlers in the UDI who are to control this, or whether we are politicians who are to give clear political instructions. The previous UDI director had said that if you were in doubt and you had a short time for proceedings – if you were in doubt – you should say yes to the applications. What is the views of the Council of State and the Government on this? Should you say yes, or should you say no?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e382	First of all, I would like to agree with the reservations that so far several people have had, that this is not a continuous description, nor a claim made by the Graver Committee that it has been such a practice. I also think that there is an artificial approach to a description of politics. Politics must be about what kind of basis you should have a stay. First of all, are you under persecution? Secondly, do you have strong human reasons? We now operate and define it more precisely through the work on the new law on foreigners. Then it will be the task of the case handler to assess the matter. If it is true that there is a basis for a stay in line with these regulations, you should receive it and if there is no basis for a stay in line with the regulations, you should not receive it. There will probably be cases of doubt, but it has to be what is more important in the direction of yes or no, which is crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e391	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e396	The attitude of the Committee is happily unanimous on the main principle, which determines the inherited understanding of Norwegian nationalism in the relationship between management and political management. I think that's a pleasure. When I found the need to ask for the floor, it is because the three minority proposals from the Progress Party appear to me to be puzzling. I cannot see that any of these proposals are answers to any of the problems identified in the Graver report or in the Committee's position. Proposal No. 1 will replace one unsustainable practice with the opposite even more unsustainable practice — namely by saying that all cases of doubt should be treated in the same way, but in this case to the detriment of the individual applicant. It is contrary to all the legal traditions of all civilised societies. I can't believe it can be thought of at all. As regards proposal No: 2, which will turn the directorship into a position of office, you have to ask yourself, what do you want to achieve with that? If you read the Basic Law, not only Section 92, as it refers to, but also Sections 21 and 22, you will discover that the only thing you achieve with it is to give the director a legal protection that he does not have today. Because he's going to be indebted. Under the Basic Law, Section 22, the only case where a government might be able to assign a UDI director would be when he falls below the age limit. How it can be an answer to the problems revealed in this case goes far beyond my understanding. With regard to the third proposal, it is not just that it has a very difficult relationship with the principles of the EEA Agreement, but it is, of course, vertical to the Nordic labour market that we have had the treaty between the Nordic countries for many decades. You can't believe, then, that a pen stroke can begin to set aside such agreements and introduce special rules that restrict the principle that we have in the relationship between the Nordic countries. I have to say that there is a very long time between reading proposals in a committee position from Stortinget which is as little thought as these proposals are obvious.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e411	I feel the need to underline three things that are under-communicated in this case – not left out, but under-communicated. Firstly, everyone agrees that the foreign field should be governed politically. From 2001 until September 2005, governance instruments were human rights, law, regulation and practice. Human rights are human rights. We have the laws here in the hall definitely. The regulations have been laid down by the Ministry. Practice was established by UDI over time, UDI’s management, until 2005, but also anchored in the practice that had existed from the time the Ministry of Justice had been the complainant in the past. If there has been a practice that if you are in doubt, say yes, consent – I say if, because it has not been examined by Graver and not confirmed by former UDI directors – it is right that it is, and here I quote the committee, ‘to step into the field of politicians’. With the old system, this was actually left to the UDI and its management if there were no other political signals, either by law or regulation. It is a little important to take into account, because the legislation, the practice that has been moved after in September and after, was anchored in previous practice, unless a new decision was taken. Secondly, I think it is important to stress that this room was quite large, and here I quote Terje Sjeggestad: ‘The legal framework is defined by both human rights obligations, law, regulation and established practices. But still it is partly far-fetched." This discretionary room was actually only two parties on the Stortinget who wanted to fill, and suggested filling it with specific regulations, and it wasn't the Progress Party. If the Progress Party and the representative Carl I. Hagen are dissatisfied with, as he stated, that this was a policy left to UDI's leadership, it is as the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa said earlier, that the Progress Party was aware that there was a great room for political action, but they never voted for the proposals promoted by the SV and the Center Party to fill this political space. If the Progress Party was dissatisfied with the practice that was taken, they have to thank themselves when they have not asked for this practice to be filled by others. The third is that it has not been demonstrated to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee that Kurds have been unjustly detained in accordance with the UDI’s instructions. The Legal Department is clear that all the elements that UDI considered in its practical assessment could be taken into account. But the assessment of the second paragraph of Section 8 should have been submitted to Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, the Government and the Department. It's the timers, and it's the committee and the whole Storting agree that should have been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e429	I take the floor to underline what the representative Holmås just said, that the main model, until a new regime was given in the field of governance, was that within the law and regulations it was UDI's mission and UNE's responsibility to establish practices, that is to say to take the discretionary considerations that in many cases could have a political dimension. Practice was to constitute practice, and there was a political space that the administration was set to fill. It was known, and it was wild. SV has just requested and proposed regulations to clarify what should be this politically specific interpretation of the provisions, and to cover or narrow – to say that – the discretion of the administration. So they weren't supposed to take signals, as someone said, but they were supposed to control by regulation and law. When the Storting made changes in the management conditions in the foreign field in the previous period, some of these governance mechanisms changed, and it allowed the Department to instruct UDI, also orally. SV warned against it, and I'm glad that more people today have said that hereafter you have to be much more careful that it is written, because there are democratic concerns related to oral instruction. That's why it's joyous. Like the others here, I fully agree with the main conclusion of the main question today, namely that it should have been informed. Because under both regimes there is a reporting obligation. The administration must be loyal, and that also means that the administration must do the job that has been done. Sometimes it actually also means managing a judgement. That's why I'm looking forward to a review in this area. SV wants clearer rules, but it is probably not going to solve all the balances that need to be taken. To that, the reality is too difficult and complicated. So finally, the Progress Party uses this case, like all other matters, to spread poison and suspect that it is only Norwegian citizenship that guarantees stability and loyalty. I have never agreed with the representative's salary in any matter that I was in the post he made today. There is something serious in the proposals of the Progress Party, but it also becomes a bit comical, because the foreign administration is actually dealing with issues where the interests of Norwegian citizens are being cared for. It is then difficult to imagine, if there is a Norwegian citizen seeking family reunification with a spouse from Thailand, for example. Is there the same reason for suspecting this citizenship and taking more account of its own? Or does this apply only to citizenship other than Norwegian?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e441	There were some claims that I just had to be allowed to document. We've been trying to investigate a little bit. With regard to the EEA Agreement, to which several have been party, Part III states the Free movement of persons, services and capital, Chapter 1, Article 28, dealing with these issues. It says, among other things: in point 2: ‘The freedom of movement means that any discrimination between workers from the Member States of the EC and EFTA States on the basis of citizenship shall be abolished in respect of employment, remuneration and other working conditions.’;» But then it says in point 4 of Article 28: ‘The provisions of this Article shall not apply to posts in the public administration.’ – Relatively clear! Then to the North. This is taken from the Nordic Council of Ministers: «Citizenship requirements for public employment and assignments in Sweden». It says: ‘According to the form of government, only the person who is a Swedish citizen may hold or exercise:’ – and that is eight to nine indents. [[...]] In addition, it says: «According to the Act on Public Employment, only Swedish citizens may have employment as: - prosecutor or police - military.» [[...]] And then it says, «The Government is also empowered to prescribe or, in specific cases, to decide that certain categories of employment should be reserved to Swedish nationals. These categories include:» – and there are three broad indents. It goes on to say in the case of Finland: «Requirements for citizenship for public employment and missions in Finland. According to the Civil Service Act, only Finnish citizens can be appointed to the following posts» – and so 14 indents. It is also referred to our Constitution § 92 in respect of some things about Norway, i.e. the requirement of citizenship for public positions and missions in Norway, and the extensive provisions that exist there. It is also referred to as the requirement of Danish citizenship for employment in the country – a large number of things that are there. When you refer to Nordic cooperation, you could go to the information we have obtained from the Nordic Council of Ministers, from www.HalloNorden.org, and then you would find that the Progress Party is quite right. It is Norway's big business and Norway's government that decides which jobs we want to reserve for Norwegian citizens. I accept that there may be disagreement as to which positions it should be. We want to maintain our view that UDI is in a special position. This has been confirmed to this extent, for example: by Per-Kristian Foss, who said that, for the sake of prudence in the UDI, no case handler who is a foreigner is handling applications from someone who comes from the same country of which he is a national. Some things have already been done – some things have been recognized. Then there's only one question about a boundary draw: how strict are you going to be? We maintain our proposal, which is consistent with all our international obligations, including the Nordic Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e487	I'm not going to give up in any way to be an EEA legal expert. But I have spent so long trying to understand EU law and EEA law that reading out just one article and thus believing that you have the whole picture, at least it's not an intrusive angle that I normally recommend as the overall legal understanding of different provisions. We have presented the question that Carl I. Hagen is dealing with here, to the lawyers working on labour law issues, among others. in the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. Their conclusion is quite clear that if, on the Norwegian side, they try to go to administrative case handlers, i.e. in the administration, and make a distinction, people are not likely because they do not have Norwegian citizenship, but for example. Swedish, then there will be a breach of EEA law. I want to hold on to the fact that it's our assessment of that question. I understand that we are going to write some notes on this later on, based today. I will not extend the debate to cover everything that is said, but I feel the need to clarify something in connection with the contributions from Heikki Holmås and Karin Andersen. It is true that there is a very important distinction in the management of the administration when the department is given a command authority in addition to the law and regulations. But then it is also important to be aware that even in the last government period, the Council of State and the government could instruct UDI, but then through regulation. If the UDI made a change in practice, you could instruct through a regulation. In any case, however, the foundation must be that the Department and the Government are aware that the UDI provides for a change in practice. Nor is it that the UDI in the previous system could do what they wanted within the discretionary room of the law. Therefore, it has always been clear that changes in practice had to be notified so that the ministry could use its right of governance through law and regulation. Changes to that governance instrument are primarily linked to the fact that the need to govern only by law and regulation can be demanding, and therefore it has been simplified to include instructions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e498	I find it necessary to comment on the last post by the representative Hagen. I have not doubted that there is access for party groups or individual representatives in Stortinget to promote legislative proposals which by law lay down certain rules of the kind that Carl I. Hagen had drafted from our Nordic neighbouring country, but then it has to be done by law. Those legislative acts must comply with the Constitution, of course. The special thing in this case is that requests have been made to the Government in an attitude on a very special matter, namely the criticism that is directed at case handling practices in UDI. That's why it becomes a derailment if you start discussing what had to be written on.org here or there. My fundamental question is: which of the facts that a unanimous committee has criticised would have come into a different position if one or more of the proposals of the Progress Party had been realised? The answer to that is, as far as I can see, that the only thing that had come into a different position was that the director of the UDI had been involuntary in that case, and that in the event he had to have brought legal proceedings against the director, because he would then have a job protection that only officials have under Norwegian state law. And how that should be an answer to the critical issues pointed out here goes far beyond my understanding. There is simply no material relationship between what this matter is about and the demonstration proposals that have been found to be unportioned in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e505	Let me first thank you for the recognition that has become me as rapporteur of the case from all parties in this matter, but above all for the broad consensus that has been demonstrated on what is a unanimous attitude. I note that we did not entirely want to have an immigration policy debate, which has contributed to both the Progress Party and the SV. Let me then say that for my part I feel the need to stress that a directorate is demanding to lead – and I know a little about the management of demanding directorates – is no excuse for a breach of the information obligation. There is no excuse for not correcting errors as a government council conveys to the Storting in good faith. There is no excuse for deliberately making borders in a politically sensitive area without assessing where the borders are going. There is no excuse for stepping into the domain of politicians. I am therefore very concerned that the Council of State ensures that it is properly vented into the UDI, and that the Council of State ensures that the whole UDI organisation understands the seriousness of this matter and understands that it has consequences for the way the UDI is to be operated in the future. Because if one in the future sees tendencies to minimize the seriousness of this case, it will really be a crisis for UDI. I have the confidence in the Council of State, with the seriousness he has put into this matter, that he will do his utmost to meet these expectations of the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e516	Carl I. Hagen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e519	First to Inge Wohnning: If you hear the statements of the President, Svein Roald Hansen's posts and at least my posts, and perhaps a couple more, it would be clear that there would have been a basis for dismissing the Director Trygve Nordby if he had still held the position. At least that's my opinion after I've listened to all these posts. If he had been an official, there would have been no obstacle to removal in this case. The second, which was the main reason why I asked for the floor, was that the Council of State used a legal assessment of some lawyers in the ministry as the basis for its views. I just allow myself to ask if we in our group could get a copy of the legal statement he used as a basis for what he said from the Grand Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e526	I took the word to say something else, but I would like to first just say to the representative Dagfinn Højbråten that I am wondering about what he said about the SV that started an immigration debate here. That wasn't the purpose. But there are many here who have addressed precisely the issues related to the assessments that lie around the management of this field in relation to instructions and regulations. I'll give praise to the Council of State on two different points. It is quite right, as he points out, that it is possible to control the foreign field by regulation if you know about changes in practice. It's just that it was very clear to all of us who worked on this subject in the previous round, that the reason why we wanted to be able to control not through regulations, but through legal interpretations – it was clear from one of the big-time messages that was presented on the management conditions in the foreign field – was the desire to be able to do tightening things quickly. It is clear that, in the case of rapid tightening, regulations are not appropriate, because they will be general and apply to all groups: strong human interests, gender-based persecution and strong ties to the empire, as any relationship. Then I'd just like to introduce myself to Carl I. Hagen. What's the problem, and what's a little bit troubling about the debate like it's now, a debate on the law, whether it's right or not under EEA law, is that you don't go in and see what it's, Carl I. Hagen actually says. The representative says that questions can be asked about the loyalty of foreign nationals. The representative Hagen does not say that he is asking questions about the loyalty of foreign citizens, but he only says that there are questions about loyalty. Then there is the obvious question of Carl I. Hagen: Is it such that Carl I. Hagen believes, for example, that French, Dutch, Portuguese or Brazilians are less suitable to manage such a global issue as immigration policy to a country like Norway? Is it the case that the representative Hagen believes that a refugee who has come to Norway, for example, from Chile or Iraq, a person who has fled from a dictator like Carl I. Hagen believed that in the event of a war of international law, it is less suitable to assess who is actually entitled to be a refugee after international conventions and get the right to come to Norway? I mean, Carl I. Hagen, I'd like him to say why, and justify why he means exactly that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e535	No salary has spoken twice and is given the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e538	It has to be very short. I quote from the Basic Law Section 22 on Officials: "... they may be transferred, but not after judgment, either, against their will." That means that if, as the representative Hagen said, UDI's director had been in the position and had been an official proposed by the Progress Party, he would have been able to resign only after the verdict. It usually takes approx. three years before such a judgment is delivered by all the courts. If he had been in the position and had the status that the UDI director now has, he could have been removed immediately and without the legal device being connected at all. This means that the proposals of the Progress Party will provide the person who will remain in this position in the future, with a legal protection that goes far, far beyond the legal protection that he currently enjoys.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e548	What made me take the floor was the last post from Carl I. Hagen. It is obvious that Carl I. Hagen has never led a department, if he believes that all dialogue and consultation between the government and the state council takes place through written notes. So this is a question that I've raised with my office, we've discussed it, we've looked at different aspects of the law issue, and I've explained the conclusion I've conveyed in meetings with my office. That's why I don't have a copy of any note that can be distributed to Carl I. Hagen, and to the extent that I had an internal note on that, I wouldn't have distributed it to Carl I. Hagen either. But I'm going to make a note of that, which I'm going to send to the Progress Party big group.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e553	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2876]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e569	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 45 minutes and allocated by up to 10 minutes to the President of the case, up to 5 minutes to each of the main speakers of the other parties and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e578	It is a broad political majority who believe that it is right that the State should have an active role in the transition to the Årdal; that is not what this issue is about. On the other hand, what this case concerns is the choice of the conversion project and the examination of this case. It has its background, as we know, in the decision of Innovation Norway to support the establishment of a door factory in Årdal. The decision in Innovation Norway was taken on 1 February this year. The Committee first addressed the Minister of Food and Trade by letter of 28 March and asked to be sent the relevant documents in the case, including the market analysis, which the Council of State had previously stated that it provided for the implementation of Innovation Norway. The Committee first received a clipped version of the file. Only after new letter rounds between the Committee and the State Council did the Committee have access to the parts of the documentation cut by Innovation Norway for the sake of business secrets. This should actually be an unnecessary exercise. According to Section 60 of the Rules of Procedure, the representatives are bound by the obligation of professional secrecy for dealing with such matters within the Committee, and the Council of State could and should therefore have communicated all relevant evidence at first request. The case also has a practice in previous cases within the control committee. In this case, the Committee has been concerned to clarify three aspects. 1st@item: inlistbox The position of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade with that of the Dooria AS in relation to the treatment in Innovation Norway and in relation to the role of SIVA2. the board of Innovation Norway’s reasons for changing their opinion between the first and second reading of the application from Dooria AS3. the market for the type of products and possible adverse effects of the State's role in the case, i.e. adverse effects on other establishments in the same industry; In the vote, a majority of government parties have seen no reason to ask critical questions on any side of the case. I expect that the majority itself will explain its views. A minority of the other parties represented in the Committee have found reason to ask questions at the hearing of Innovation Norway in this case and their choice of the conversion project in Årdal. The leading question in this case is related to the socio-economic profitability of the project. Innovation Norway itself says that a project aimed at taking market shares from current actors will rarely be defined as socially viable. There is no doubt that a new door factory in Norway – in Årdal – will take market shares, probably significant, from the existing operators. Furthermore, no one denies the fact that this industry has no growth potential of importance and that the margins of operators are very modest. Innovation Norway itself describes the industry as mature. Nevertheless, they believe that the Dooria Årdal project is socio-economically viable. Innovation Norway’s argument as to why this is the case is based on two important assumptions, firstly that the industry is undergoing restructuring, and secondly that there will be room for only two to three major internal actors in the future, and secondly that Dooria is the only Norwegian alternative that could claim to be. The fact that the industry is undergoing restructuring is also confirmed by the operators in the industry. That's exactly why several of them have invested considerable sums in new technology and expansion. Norway’s largest door manufacturer today, Nordic Dørfabrik AS in Lwgal, which is locally owned and has 140 employees, has established itself in Sweden and Denmark and has made cost-intensive investments in Lwgal just to meet the future. This is a corner stone company in a municipality with 7,500 inhabitants around it. During the verification hearing, Bindalsbruk explained that they have also made investments to meet this restructuring. Bindals employs 120 people in a municipality with only 1750 inhabitants. It is easy to understand that if Bindals were to end, it would be a disaster for this community. These are examples of actors that are well-established in today’s market and contesting Innovation Norway’s assumption that Dooria is the only Norwegian option. It is appropriate to recall that the state has a particularly fine reputation for intervening in the door industry to strengthen Norwegian business. When Innovation Norway’s predecessor wanted to restructure the market in the 1970s, the country went in with 100 million. the establishment of a company in Nome, Telemark. The result after a few years of poor profitability was sales to Sweden, closure and loss of Norwegian market shares. Bindal’s use was also one of those that, in addition to meeting normal competition in the market, met the State as a competitor. As you know, it was only at second reading in the Board of Innovation Norway that they found that they could support the Dooria Årdal project. It is difficult to see what new information of importance has come to the matter between the first and second readings, which can explain the Board's reversing. The growth rate of the products concerned in the Nordic market is limited and there is more than enough capacity in the industry today. From this it appears obvious that a new and modern door factory with a very favourable financing package will have negative structural consequences for other Norwegian operators in the industry. It is tempting to speculate in the belief that the objective is devoted to this matter, that one believes it is necessary to support the Dooria Årdal project, although this may be at the expense of other communities. At least this was not the intention of Stortingen when funds were granted for the conversion in Årdal. The door industry is, as Innovation Norway says, a mature industry. The margins are small, and the players compete in a well-functioning market. There are good reasons, therefore, purely intuitive to ask questions about whether the Dooria Årdal project is socio-economically viable. This question could have been superfluous if the treatment of the case in Innovation Norway had been more thorough and more verifiable. The minority in the Committee specifically points to the lack of independent external impact assessments or market analyses. Innovation Norway’s decision can mean life or death for businesses, not only those directly involved, but also for third-party enterprises. Then it is not just a matter of basing the decision base on a phone call from a case handler to the Industry Association. The minority in the Committee has therefore found the procedure in Innovation Norway critical in this case. To the extent that the Council of State is fully comfortable with the way Innovation Norway has handled the matter, this is also to read as a criticism of him. This case has shown that there is a need for testable market analyses and impact assessments. The minority in the Committee therefore proposes that: ‘The Government is asking the Government to review the legislation on the handling of issues in Innovation Norway, with a view to ensuring that the system adequately meets the need for monitoring and reviewability of decisions and decision-making bases in Innovation Norway.’ I take this up with the proposal from the minority in the vote. During the hearing, the Council of State signaled that he would look at the routines and the way they work, so that one could avoid similar situations or similar cases in the future. In view of this, I find it somewhat surprising that even his own party does not support the proposal of the minority. Notwithstanding the votes of the Government Parties in this case, it must be assumed that the Council of State intends to follow up its own statement to the Committee. I just assume that the Storting is involved in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e631	The representative Per-Kristian Foss has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e634	Let me first also thank the rapporteur for a well-functioning hearing, and also the chairperson of the committee for the same thing. The applicant's rapporteur has initially explained the minority's view of Innovation Norway's contribution to the start-up of the door factory in Årdal. However, the majority of the Committee has a different starting point. The municipalities of Sogn and Fjordane were allocated in the revised national budget for 2004 and in the State budget for 2005 discretionary means of conversion as a result of the planned dwindling of aluminium production, among others. in Årdal. Innovation Norway is examining, quality assurance and deciding on applications from enterprise-oriented projects on behalf of the county. In addition to the supply of power, Årdal’s main natural advantage for industrial activities is the industrial environment of the municipality. Few places in Norway value the profession of industrial work as high as in Årdal. The Årdal community has a major challenge in reverseing negative trends in population development and employment. That is why Årdal deserves, of course, his status as a conversion municipality, which I am pleased that the entire committee believes. But it's also important to note that the whole Årdal isn't holding his hands and waiting for this status to solve all the challenges for them. No, they themselves take strategic and active action, as well as being creative in a demanding development effort for small and medium-sized enterprises and in the further development of the rest of Årdal’s business. The Committee has sought to highlight three main issues through the consultation process. An important issue has been the position of the Ministry of Industry and Trade with the application of Dooria AS in relation to the treatment in Innovation Norway. With regard to the Ministry's position on the matter, the hearing removed any doubts that the Ministry has dealt with the matter throughout the process and has dealt with the Innovation Norway AS in a normal and correct manner. Normal procedure means keeping the Ministry informed about the projects in question, but without the Ministry entering into and assessing the individual projects. The open hearing also left no doubt that the handling of the case by state councils has taken place according to current practice and without any attempt to influence the decision of the board. This should not come as a surprise, with a background in the information that was and was made known in advance. In this way, in my opinion, the use of the Hearing Officer in this matter was almost unnecessary. What remains as a result of the consultation is a minority proposal to review the legislation for dealing with issues in Innovation Norway. This proposal does not require the majority to give its support to, as the Council of State itself noted during the hearing that he would look into the need for such a review. It is also difficult to imagine what such monitoring as the proposal would entail, and who would actually be responsible for it. Any administrative practice shall be capable of being verified and verified as a result of normal administrative practices and the work of the National Audit Office. As regards the various conclusions reached by the Management Board of Innovation in the two rounds examining the application from Dooria AS, the majority of the Board of Directors, following amendments and further information, found to support the project. This is a perfectly legitimate decision and within the framework of the powers of the Management Board. Innovation Norway has extensive experience in granting business support, and the company's independent position makes it impossible for the majority to see the basis for questioning the professional judgements made by the board of directors. As is known, Dooria AS competes in an international market, with a Nordic emphasis. The hearing confirmed that a new door factory would have been established regardless of state aid schemes to Årdal, either in Sweden or in Finland, and with better support than in Norway. If this had happened, Norway would have missed out on even more industrial jobs, without any positive results for some of the remaining factories in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e655	The Christian People's Party is responsible for an active and comprehensive industrial policy. We need to use broad economic instruments to ensure good framework conditions. If we don't, competitive jobs are forced out of the country. At the same time, we will use specific measures for sectors, businesses and regions that are struggling. Unilateral industrial communities, which have to cope with major change processes, are in such a vulnerable position. That is why the Christian People's Party also supported a total of 100 million. kr to Årdal and Høyanger in 2004 and 2005. The aim was to contribute to the process of transition and create new activities and a broader nutrient base. So the Christian People's Party is not against supporting the Årdal community. On the contrary, we are for that. But there is reason to ask questions about the process of supporting the establishment of the Dooria door factory. There is also reason to ask questions as to whether sufficient emphasis has been placed on the importance of such an establishment for other vulnerable communities. The application for Dooria was examined at the Innovation Norway Governing Board meeting on 15 December 2005. Here it was rejected. A few weeks later, on 1 February 2006, the matter was brought before the board of directors. Then one came to the contrary conclusion. There were no changes in the market during these weeks. At the same time, we know that there was a strong pressure from the Government, which had gone high on the track to come up with a solution for Årdal. The hearing does not justify claiming that the Ministry has instructed Innovation Norway in this matter. But there are still enough people who feel that if the government wasn't under instruction, they got strong inspiration from government teams to change their previous decision. Nordic door factories at Kvavik in Lwagal contribute 140 jobs. It means a lot to a municipality with 7,500 inhabitants. In the Bindal municipality of Nordland, the closure of Bindalsbruket will result in unemployment of more than 18 p.p. In any case, Bindal's exposed position should be known to the Council of State from Helgeland. It is bad if massive State subsidisation of a start-up in a competitive and mature industry is to mean the hook at the door of already established producers with a significant impact on their communities. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, the hearing gives reason to ask questions as to whether the studies of the socio-economic consequences have been good enough in this matter. Other Norwegian door manufacturers have made substantial investments to meet competition in the market, with little or no public support. Manufacturers such as Nordic in Lwagal and Bindalsbrujet believe they will be able to cope, but it assumes that they will be able to compete on equal terms and with long-term, predictable framework conditions. It does not contribute to the specific subsidisation of Dooria by the State. There is reason to ask whether it was not possible to find other and better solutions for the Årdal community. We need to take care of a media-driven business policy. State industrial policy must be concerned with framework conditions and create predictability for long-term investment. The Christian People's Party has noted the following opinion of the State Council Odd Eriksen during the hearing: ‘The decision of Innovation Norway is based on an overall assessment and that assessment does not presuppose the closure of door factories in Norway due to the possible establishment of a door factory in Årdal.’ This opinion creates a high level of fall-out, and it is now the responsibility of the Minister of Industry. The government is really at risk of meeting itself at the door if it subsequently has to provide substantial public funds for conversion in other municipalities because of the implementation of this project in Årdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e684	The left does not have a member of the control committee, and so we have not been with and treated Dooria-saka. But we still want to signal that we support the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party in the presented a review of the legislation on dealing with issues in Innovation Norway, in order to ensure that the system works as it should when deciding on credits and loans. It is a little strange that the board changed its mind and gave way to the door factory Dooria without leading to any significant new information, and that there were no market investigations in a matter where Innovation Norway was in such deep doubt as they were in this matter. The left believes that it is absolutely necessary to invest in development in Årdal, and we support of course that funds were earmarked for this in Innovation Norway. But we do not agree on the choice of the project to create new jobs in this community, which has had a one-sided industry – and so it has been very vulnerable. The bet at the door factory may be a new defeat for Årdal. To bet on such a mature industry with such a low income potential, so vulnerable to competition and without anything new and original in itself, is a large risk project – in addition to creating problems for other communities that have more competition than they already have in this market. It is a pity, therefore, that the Minister of Industry did not have a whole new and exciting nutrition project in his pocket when he visited Årdal, after the government party had gone high on the track of the Årdal community in the election campaign. The difficulty of providing new food in Årdal and other rural areas in similar situations shows how important it is that Norway invests in research and development to create new and forward-looking job vacancies. It would be a pity if the Dooria factory, in spite of large investments and subsidies from the state, also had problems in Årdal. Then the state arrangements have only been with and thrown blues into the eye of people who live and want their work there. I think Dooria-saka is a matter that must serve as an example of the fact that Innovation Norway and the regimes must not resort to unfortunate root causes. We have to get there that we'd rather lay a foundation for the establishment of companies that have the capacity and development of themselves. In all industrial history in Norway, as in other countries, businesses have been entering, and new ones have been set up. Left does not trust to drive with artificial contributions. We have more faith in spending money on feeding life to the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e699	I understand the setting so that the committee supports during the conversion work in Årdal. I'm glad. The government has long been concerned about the situation in Årdal. Through meetings with interested parties, I have received insight into the work done by the community, industry, the municipality and Hydro to create new jobs in Årdal. The working party has a long tradition of believing that national authorities must take responsibility when major changes are necessary. So, together with the three government parties at that time, we made a donation of 100 million. kr to the conversion in Årdal and Høyanger. The aim of the funds was to ensure industrial activity and a broader economic base. The size provided that Innovation Norway and SIVA were to take an active part in the conversion work. They do that in a constructive way. The clear division of labour between the authorities and Innovation Norway will also form the basis for further work. The Ministry will provide overall political guidance on how Innovation Norway will manage the funds allocated by the Stortinget. Innovation Norway will take decisions to provide support to individual enterprises in the light of this. The decisions will be based on independent, professional assessments. The Board of Innovation Norway ensures that this is done. The Ministry’s monitoring of Innovation Norway should continue to be carried out through reporting requirements and periodic evaluations of parts of its activities, and not reviews of individual cases. Clear provisions are needed in this area. The Committee itself has been concerned with this very distinction between the Ministry as a political body and Innovation Norway dealing with individual cases. These are the same governance principles proposed by the Bondevik Government in the large-scale papers that led to the establishment of Innovation Norway and to which the Stortingen joined. The purpose section of Innovation Norway states that the company should promote business and socio-economic economical economical development throughout the country. So they have to bet on companies that will contribute to value creation for a long time in the future. It requires an opinion on the prospects of the enterprise and the markets in which it operates. I understand that this kind of assessment may be discussed. There is an important debate on the extent to which support should be provided and whether this can be done without the adverse impact on the market. The State aid legislation provides external frameworks to assist in this debate. In its concluding comment, the minority in the Committee generally states that they are not critical of the support given to the Årdal community. I'm glad. I take it as a sign that there is a broad political consensus about working for a more varied business life in the Årdal. It provides a good basis for further conversion cooperation between the municipality, county, industry, Innovation Norway and SIVA.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e716	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e719	In the election campaign we saw central representatives of today's government parties who used their opportunity in the election campaign to talk about a new power regime, about the rescue of jobs both in Skien and in Årdal, about an active ownership policy and improved depreciation rules, to say something. This was the active industrial policy – in the election campaign. Active business policy has now been shown to produce practical results. At the same time, I would say that there is no one on Stortinget who argues that the Årdal community should have the status of conversion. It is an aggregate increase that also supports the support given to Årdal. When Hydro removes more than 100 workplaces, it is necessary to convert, but the question that remains here is why the door factory? Årdal now has very little leave, actually 1 pst., or 34 people. When you go into the process of innovation in Norway, which leads to finding out that the Dooria door project is the right one, it is obviously wrong and missing. Innovation Norway is seeking information from the trade association for woodworking industries in April this year. It was over two months after the board had agreed, among other things. State resources for new doorworks. Should it not have been through good administration that when a market analysis is required, the market analysis is actually carried out externally and among the people and organisations who have knowledge of the market, not only the local ones? I myself have – for the sake of honesty – the largest door factory, Nordic, in my own constituency. It is technologically absolute the door factory that is the furthest forward. It also won the bid at Aarhus, Norway's new large hospital. Dooria fell out, and Nordic was considered the best precisely in the technological sense, and given that it is already the largest door factory in Norway. Nevertheless, it was claimed from Innovation Norway that Dooria is the only option for the future. It is not disputed that Nordic is the most technological doorfabric. I dispute that taxpayers' money, paid in, among other things. in Lwigal, shall agree to build up competing activities in Årdal, which could in the long term affect local jobs in Lwigal. It is a very unfortunate situation that Innovation Norway is involved in building up alternative industries that we already have in a market where competition is hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e733	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2876]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e749	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2876]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e765	There is an overall committee that sees very positively the way in which the Riksrevision has now presented its activities in 2005, with professional input, structured in such a way that the whole comes out clearly and in a balanced way. We see the importance of the Riksrevision focusing on the change processes that take place in the administration, including, among other things, in particular with a view to establishing the new labour and welfare management adopted by the Stortinget in spring 2005. The fact that the National Audit Office is also following up digital developments and emphasises the organisation and implementation of the conversion and rationalisation potential inherent in these electronic processes is particularly important. We are pleased with the work of the National Audit Office in this area. There is also an overall committee which expresses the importance that the many observations made by the National Audit Office on the accounts must be followed up by subsequent audits, so that the identified irregularities and weaknesses are corrected on the first possible occasion. Unfortunately, the Committee also has the impression that a number of departments and other audited state activities do not take the Riksaudition observations seriously enough. We assume that government councils are active in ensuring that the Court's observations are taken seriously. We would also like to stress that the role of the National Audit Office in dealing with maladministration, which also includes corruption, is considered to be very important – not just detection, but in particular prevention of corruption. We see the importance of a strengthened audit and control within this area. In this context, the Riksaudition should exercise enhanced control over the purchase and sale of services, with a view to identifying possible corruption in both public and private customers and suppliers, as many private companies buy and sell goods and services to and from public enterprises for billions of dollars. In today’s society, the Committee sees the need for public procurement in its main and main contracts with private actors in the text of the agreement to integrate the Riksaudition’s access to transparency and access to specific issues through the selected auditors of the respective private companies. Such an option can be a very useful tool for preventing and, where appropriate, detecting the maladministration and misuse of public resources. I hope that all the state councils and the government will note these unanimous views from an overall control committee – so try to get into the text of the agreement with private actors that the Riksrevision should be guaranteed access to transparency. It will be something new, and we hope and expect the government to follow up. Finally, an overall committee welcomes the National Audit Office’s international activities, but in such a way that they do not have to go beyond the primary national areas. However, if the human resources situation so permits, these types of activities will contribute positively to the professional development and general level of knowledge of the National Audit Office. It'll be very positive in itself. As far as aid policy is concerned, cooperation with the Norwegian National Audit Office to train and assist and assist national audits in the aid countries will be of central importance to ensure that most of the aid funds made available to countries are used and managed as intended and that corruption and maladministration do not go away. So building up active national audits in the beneficiary countries of Norwegian aid will in itself be very, very sensible from an aid policy point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e784	As a new member of the Control and Constitutional Committee, I would like to stress that the National Audit Office’s report on the operation in 2005 provides a good and interesting insight into an institution that is too few to really know. The image values are objective, independent and competent and the interplay values are layer spirit, openness and respect. The National Audit Office has and shall have ambitions. The Riksrevision documents differ in their follow-up from Stortinget's page. Many end up in the Control and Constitutional Committee as own cases, such as: next case, Document No. 3:7. From the centre party's side, we have received two reports with great interest, Administrative Report No. 1/2005, on the system of fixed medical devices, and Administrative Report No. 2/2005, on the examination by the National Audit Office of its work on the design of the EEA-relevant legislation. The first of these was followed up by the Ministry of Health and Welfare. The second is an important hub for a government that will lead a more active European policy without EU membership and which this year has worked on an action plan for that very purpose. The central party agrees that the National Audit Office’s international activities provide competence and knowledge. I would like the Riksrevision to assess how experience, for example. with EFTA and NATO audits, may be notified to Stortinget. NATO is otherwise fully and informatively covered in Observation Item No. 2 for 2006, National Audit Office’s most readable journal. Finally, let me underline the joy of the fact that the National Audit Office is also doing development work. There are several examples of this in the annual report – in Zambia, Malawi and in the context of Indonesia’s participation in the construction of the Ache province after the tsunami. Strengthening and improving the efficiency of national audits in developing countries and in other countries where democracy is building is clearly an important instrument for securing development and fighting corruption. It is good that the Norwegian National Audit Office also engages in that field.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e797	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 2876]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e813	The management and guidance of healthcare professionals does not carry out well enough the responsibility they have to establish a system that ensures good quality for the encoding of diagnostics. An important reason for low code quality is that each third doctor has not received systematic regulatory training. There are also no procedures to ensure that coding and quality assurance are part of the operation. This is the main conclusion of the National Audit Office's investigation, as presented in Document No. 3:7 for 2005-2006. Intervention-led funding – ISF – was introduced in 1997. ISF reimbursement of some of the costs incurred by regional health professionals in the treatment of patients by the State. From 1 January of this year, the ISF shall be 40 pst. the financing of healthcare professionals. The percentage has otherwise varied. The Committee shall provide a coherent setting. The progress party has its own additional comment, which I suggest they do for themselves. A fair refund requires the medical encoding of patient management to be correct. The number of errors and absences in coding diagnostics and classification of surgical interventions, the more random the funding of regional healthcare providers, and the more difficult it is for the country to use ISF to achieve health policy objectives. The size has previously believed that trust in the ISF as a funding system is entirely dependent on health care professionals coding diagnostics and procedures in a uniform and correct way, as stated. Inner. S. No 110 for 2003-2004. The term ‘code quality’ was much noted in connection with the detection of systematic miscoding in Health South in 2003. The aim there was to provide some patient groups with more profitable diagnostics, thus securing more resources for business. The national audit has previously pointed to the poor quality of the medical codes on which ISF is based. Thus, a management audit was started in this area. There is the outcome of this audit, carried out in 14 hospitals, which is now listed in today’s document. The committee of mine handling this message to Stortinget is particularly important, because this management audit, which has been expected, applies to significant public expenditure. The extensive use of resources required by this type of audit also makes it possible for the Storting to be able to deal with this issue naturally again. The main results are as follows: Nearly 38 pst. of the main diagnostics are coded incorrectly, which means one with 95 pst. The probability is that 35-42 pst. of these diagnostics are misguided. Bidiagnosis miscoding, other conditions that are managed or occurring during the treatment period, is even more extensive. In addition, there are approximately every 10 procedural codes, classification of surgical procedures, errors. The detected fault encoding may appear high evenly with a number of international medical coding studies in other countries, cf. SINTEF report ‘Quality of medical coding and ISF reimbursements’ from 2005. For example, an analysis of coding in Switzerland based on over 2,500 hospital stays is referred to for a total of 14 hospitals in 2002. Here was 76 pst. of the main diagnostics correctly registered. 7 pst. were partially correct. Only 17 pst. the main diagnostics were incorrect. The objective of the management audit has been a thorough analysis of the reasons for this low code quality. The National Audit Service believes that inadequate training in the current medical coding legislation is such a cause. This is also the background to the fact that almost half of the leagues in the National Audit Office’s questionnaire survey report that they do not know enough about the central code guide. The Committee agrees with the Riksrevision’s assessment that this is due to the fact that healthcare professionals have little systematic management of code quality and that coding and quality assurance of coding are not adequately integrated into the functioning of regional healthcare providers. There is control, and it is up to health care providers to ensure that a good code quality system is established. Better code quality is decisive in terms of both patient statistics, research and health care professionals. This applies irrespective of the choice of funding model. In 2003, the Bondevik II government launched a national strategy for better quality. However, it is still important to focus on work to improve the quality of coding and DRG scores. The Committee is pleased that the Ministry of Health and Welfare is signalling an exposure to improve code quality. This was later highlighted in the 2006 Regional Health Executives’ Order Document, while the Social and Health Directorate has now been given a holistic responsibility for code and classification work. On questions from the Committee, the Ministry has commented on the Riksrevision's proposal to develop a national code quality indicator. The Committee is pleased that the Ministry is now looking at such a proposal and that, in this context, they are also gaining relevant experience from countries with which comparison is natural. Otherwise, we have noticed that the Ministry states that national indicators can be used at the earliest opportunity during 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e845	I allow myself to link some comments to our special comments in relation to the common setting. I am in full agreement with what the case spokesperson said. As part of health care providers’ financial base, together with the basic approach, input-driven funding — ISF — was introduced in 1997. This means that hospital income is partly dependent on the level of activity. ISF, input-based funding, as it is organised today, is based on DRG, diagnostic-related groups, which means that the various pathways of the patient treatment process are identified by codes representing the respective diagnostics. If the cost of the individual diagnosis is to be in the best possible conformity with the payment made, then it is absolutely necessary that the coding is correct. The progress party thinks it must be an absolute goal that the sum that is triggered by the coding will cover the costs of the treatment. In order for hospitals to balance their financial situation and be directly in line with the work being done, so that cows and waiting time can be reduced to a just and necessary level, a system in which income covers expenditure is the only appropriate method of financing. According to the Riksrevision's report in Document No. 3:7 most businesses aim not to create creative encodings. On the other hand, there are no written code quality requirements specified, and there are no developed targets to check if the desired encoding quality is met. It's the individual doctor who's probably coded medically. In the investigation into the Riksrevisionen, Leges were asked about the reasons why the coding did not comply with the legislation. A number of respondents indicated that the code work is difficult and that training is too poor. Nearly half of the leagues say that the coding task is not prioritised. Legs must be able to code correctly. Each third doctor in the study replied that they had not received coding training. The National Audit Office also points out that the correct coding makes the system easier to predict by keeping the price of the piece stable, and that patient statistics are corrected and the management information is better in some cases. The Progress Party mainly supports the assessments and conclusions presented by the Riksrevision. We still believe that it should become the most commercial staff who become specialists in their field, to perform the coding. The players should not use the time they spend encoding, but to perform the tasks they are primarily spent on. Health professionals must be smart in relation to their responsibility for correct coding, and the coding guidelines must be so clear that this can be done in the same way throughout the country. One must improve the ISF system and the DRGs must be as consistent as possible with the real diagnosis and cost of the individual patient treatment. The national audit has pointed out that the correct quality of the code makes the system easier to manage by keeping the price of the piece stable. The unit price is currently being used to regulate the total payment through the ISF. If the volume exceeds that of the order letter, the unit price will be reduced afterwards when the final declaration is made the year after the services have been performed. The progress batch suggests that the piece price must be fixed so that the result can be easily predicted. This set the correct encoding. It is therefore essential for the ISF as a system and hospitals to be able to achieve a balance in the accounts that the National Audit Office’s report is being followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e873	I would also like to make a few comments on this report from the Riksrevision. The Christian People's Party will argue that good quality in health businesses is of great importance. It will contribute to a more accurate and reliable information on the results of the activities. It is also necessary to ensure optimal use of resources, and it will assist corporate governance in managing enterprises. In 2003, the Bondevik II government launched a national strategy to improve code quality. Key elements here are more frequent cost audits, continued monitoring of registration changes, standardisation work in cooperation with the clinical environment and more active use of the Billing Committee to ensure that payments to regional health establishments are as accurate and fair as possible. Health enterprises have implemented measures to improve code quality in recent years. That's why today we have a more complete coding, both of diagnosis and of procedures, but the condition is still not good enough. It is worrying that the study from the National Audit Office shows a lack of involvement by the management of health companies in putting in place safer systems, and in particular I will highlight verifiable targets and reporting on code quality. Another important element I would like to highlight is the responsibility of healthcare companies for providing systematic training to all doctors who are to use the code book. This training must be given on a regular basis both to new employees and to temporary workers insofar as they are to use the system. In such a training programme, it is also important to use experience and controls as learning elements for the users of the coding system, not least because the coding rate remains too high. Finally, I would like to say that it is positive that the Social and Health Directorate has been commissioned, and is already in the process, a development work aimed at establishing a national indicator of code quality. Finally, I would like to point out the importance of a regular focus in the future on improving code quality. This is important regardless of the type of funding the hospitals have.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e888	Checking the code quality is important, because correct coding means that we get the correct medical diagnosis. Maybe that's the most important thing. Furthermore, if we have the correct coding, we get the right statistics, which in turn provide the basis for research, important medical research. Proper coding also provides good governance information that is not least useful and important for obtaining satisfactory financial management by the specialist services. It's been talking a little bit about the cause of the poor code quality. It also points to some things. I'm not going to say that much about it, but I'm quite sure that lack of knowledge, lack of skills and lack of training are important. But there's one element that might be even more important, and it's not least the hold of those who work in hospitals and are responsible for this, i.e. the hold of coding and resource usage in relation to coding. It is clear that there is a balance here, between resources used for coding and direct patient treatment. As stated in the document, it is approx. 510 different DRGs. We know there's a lot of bi-diagnosis and a lot of procedures. This can be combined, and then it becomes a pretty hard job, with a lot of combinations. In plain text, this means that it's not easy to encode 100 pst. Right -- I don't think that's achievable. But, of course, the ambition must be that we must have a significant improvement in code quality – much better than the one we are today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e899	The code quality in hospitals has improved significantly since the introduction of input-driven funding in 1997, but the report on the National Audit Office’s survey of code quality in healthcare companies shows that there is still a high potential for improvement, as several speakers have pointed out here today. Proper medical records in the patient administration system of hospitals are important for the use of these records in research, in statistics and as management information, and thus as a basis for funding from the country to regional health businesses and within regional health enterprises. For the sake of order, I would like to stress that fault codes should not affect the treatment of individual patients, and that the financing system itself is designed so that modified coding should not have consequences for total payments made by the State to regional health businesses. However, it cannot be excluded that some hospitals can gain a short-term financial gain by changing the coding. The authorities are working on several measures to ensure good code quality in Norwegian hospitals. These include: establish a national strategy to improve quality. An important part of this strategy is the cooperation between SINTEF Health and the Medical Association, which aims to create a common understanding and professional consensus on how to interpret the legislation. The Riksrevision report shows that this work contributes to a greater understanding. The National Audit Office is asked to assess whether a national indicator should be established in order to measure and monitor developments in code quality. I think it is an interesting proposal and have therefore asked – as several speakers have already said – the Social and Health Directorate to start work on developing indicators that can provide a balanced and comprehensive description of code quality. I believe that the Riksrevision's thorough examination of the code quality in healthcare companies is a very useful contribution to improving the quality of medical coding. The National Audit Office’s report has therefore been sent to the Social and Health Directorate and to the regional health companies, and will of course form part of the basis for further code quality work. I am extremely concerned about achieving good code quality in health businesses. I want this to happen within a framework where the main task of doctors is to spend time on patient treatment and not on administrative coding.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e914	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2877]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e930	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2877]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e946	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The author is not present, but Mr Asmyhr wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e957	I should like to commend the rapporteurs for the proposal they have made. It is a very necessary proposal, and it is absolutely necessary to focus on improving food safety in relation to the situation we have been through this winter. We have believed that in Norway our food has been safe. We have even believed that food has been significantly safer than it has been in other countries. I guess that picture's scratched a little bit right now. The improvement of food safety is crucial, because if we as consumers and citizens lose confidence in the food we buy, we are not well off to drive. The minimum level of confidence in the food market will quickly cause problems for both agriculture, the food industry and the food trade. Winter's events have focused on the lack of food security. We've had more unfortunate things. We have had the E. coli 103 case, we have had many stories about dirty animals, things about bad hygiene and about bad food labelling. This shows that we need increased control, supervision and significantly increased focus on these issues. The government has promised in several presentations here in Stortinget and in debates to focus more on these issues. But I want to take the opportunity to ask the question: what has happened specifically after these cases, except that some samples have been put down to evaluate the situation you have been through? It is necessary to act actively and to take concrete action towards industries, so that such situations can be avoided. Information to consumers is not good enough. We had a debate here in Stortingen yesterday, where the Council of State took part, and where I believe the Council of State went very far in confirming that the information to consumers needs to be improved, because it is not good enough as it is on the packaging today. There is also a significant need for increased focus on this with origin labelling. It is important now that Norwegian food is given increased competition from abroad in order to ensure consumer safety. I will challenge the Council of State on what concrete measures the Government will take in the field of food security. She should be able, now that she is here in Stortinget, to respond to what concrete measures the Government has put in place and plans to introduce in the near future. It is also necessary to ask the question of what concrete changes have taken place on the part of the Food Safety Authority after the specific cases that we have witnessed. The question is also whether there have been better and more frequent checks. External reviews are positive. So now we're going to have an evaluation of these situations. Gilde has set up a sample to examine them for themselves, and the Food Authority is also to be reviewed. It is important that the Storting should be presented with a matter from the Government when the results of these investigations are clear. The Progress Party has asked in its comments whether the professional responsibility of the Food Authority is correct, whether there is an unfortunate division between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture, whether there are difficult responsibilities, and who has the real responsibility. Is it possible that there is a mixture for nutritional and control purposes? In that case, it would be unfortunate. It is the interests of consumers that are important and we believe that the Ministry of Consumer Affairs should be responsible for these matters. I will also refer to the proposal that the minority has made, and will address it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e976	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e979	Fortunately, some time has passed without us having had daily news reports on new problems of the kind that Stortinget has been concerned about this spring in the matter of Norwegian food safety. We're supposed to be happy about that. Hopefully that means that it won't show up new versions of the exact same type of problem that we've had a little bit too many examples of. I do not see any dramatic political disagreements in the committee's position. Rather, it is probably about shades in how you want the matter to be dealt with further. The Committee draws attention to the presentations made on 28 March this year by the Minister for Health and the Minister for Agriculture and Food respectively. Both Councils at that time indicated that an independent evaluation would be carried out, and it was also clearly stated by the Minister of Agriculture that the Stortinget would be kept properly informed about this work. So in this respect, the government has given a half-way promise that you should come back to the Storting in an appropriate way. That's why I'm a little surprised that a joint committee has not been able to join the proposal promoted by the Advance Party, the Right and Christian People's Party in the matter, which is just asking for such a case to be dealt with in the Stortinget. The evaluation committee set up by the Government is an excellent one, and I would like to say that I think it is commendable that the Government has done so in the way that it has collected expertise from abroad that can ensure that a completely independent assessment is made of all the questions put in the mandate. I think the mandate is adequate. Particular emphasis has been placed on assessing communication, interaction and cooperation at a specific point, and emphasis has also been placed on evaluating information and communication externally. That point, in my opinion, may be the most important thing, because my impression is that it might be the point where it failed most in the management of food safety problems this spring. I also have nothing to say against the fact that the mandate of the evaluation committee explicitly stated that the sample should not evaluate the issue of departmental responsibility and the distribution of powers by food law. Because it is clear that it does not make sense to ask foreign experts to carry out that type of evaluation. It is a political responsibility, which I assume the Government must take after the evaluation committee has been set up. The same applies to the last point that is underlined, namely that of course legal issues and the issue of liability are not addressed by such a sample. Legal questions belong to the legal system and may need to be dealt with there. So far, I think, there is a complete consensus that the evaluation project is a proper project, as the Government has set it in motion. The remaining disagreement is what will happen after the evaluation committee has done its work and delivered its opinion. That is where I would have liked the whole Committee and the Stortinget to have joined in the wish to have a separate case which also contains, as stated in the proposal, ‘a plan of measures to improve the work on food safety, including the future organisation of the Food Safety Authority’. With the last wording, no position has been taken on the part of the proposers as to what the correct answer to this is. However, the intention is that, as a result of the evaluation report, a concrete action plan should be drawn up by the Government, with a very specific description of the measures to be taken on the basis of the evaluation, and that an appropriate basis should also be provided for the Government to take a stand for the organisation of the Food Authority. Let me just add a little comment to the figure that the committee's vote has given. As you can see, there is a majority in the Committee, consisting of the members of the Advancement Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, who have stood behind a comment that states explicitly that it is found 'important that the Stortinge is presented with a case of its own' for consideration. Then, as far as I can see, it is a little difficult to see why one of the parties behind this remark, that is, the Left, has not followed up on the proposal that the other three parties have promoted, because in fact, as far as I can see, there is full agreement between the comment of the majority and the content of the proposal promoted by the three parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e996	SV – and I also assume that the rest of the majority parties – share the opinion of the proposers that a high level of food safety is fundamental to consumer safety. As far as SV is concerned, for many years we have been concerned both with labelling the origin and control of imports, not to mention that we have been concerned about getting a device on agricultural policy that strengthens organic farming. Norwegian consumers should be able to be confident that the food they buy, whether imported or produced in Norway, is safe. If we're going to consider recent events system-critical, maybe we're talking about what we see, the dark aspects of highly industrialized agriculture and highly industrialized food production. Clearly, the consequences of poor hygiene and contamination are increasing where production is industrial and where food is transported over large areas before it reaches the consumer. SV is concerned about the centralisation of slaughterhouses that agricultural cooperatives have been forced to implement. Long-distance transport may result in unacceptable conditions for the animals. Local production for local markets is the most sustainable production, both in terms of employment and in relation to the environment. We must have an agricultural policy that promotes food security by ensuring even small uses and foreseeable framework conditions. Not least, this means that in the WTO negotiations we must guarantee the right to pursue a national agricultural policy. There is also reason to be critical of the reorganisation that has taken place in relation to the Food Authority, both in terms of the pace and content of the privatisation of the laboratories that followed the closure of the municipal food surveillance. We have probably believed that animal health and slaughter hygiene have been much better in Norway than in countries with which we have been able to compare. Both authorities, industry and consumers have been drowsy in their belief that food scandals were just what happened in other countries. The E. coli scandal has once and for all taken away that duty of faith. This way, something good can come out of the E. coli scandal. But the price has, of course, been high – it has been too high. In the opinion of SV, however, the government has followed up the matter with the necessary seriousness requested by the proposers. A review committee has been set up to report by 1 November. On the basis of this sample report, the Government has to assess which changes and measures should be put in place. To assume in advance that this implies the need to provide a large-scale notification — as the opposition suggests — is to anticipate the conclusions of the evaluation committee. A draft new animal welfare law will soon be promoted. SV believes that this law must provide for a tightening of conditions which ensure better conditions for animals both in individual poultry, in the transport of live animals and in the handling and killing of slaughter animals. The Minister of Agriculture and Food has also announced that traceability of food is a field of concern – I am thinking of the e-tracking project, which will provide effective information on where the food comes from, perhaps one of the most targeted measures we can implement. We will certainly come back to this matter when the evaluation committee's setting is available, but I feel confident that the government will follow up with the necessary seriousness.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1013	The food we eat must be safe. When many get sick, as in the E. coli case earlier this year, when a child died, it shows that food safety is not well enough. Other minor, but still too many serious cases of food infections, we actually read about in the newspapers almost daily. I am thinking not least of the Public Health Institute's last report that as many as 45 people are now registered sick as a result of salmonella infection. This is alarming. According to the Danish Food Authority, the origin of this Danish salami is "First Price". Good food safety is primarily a public responsibility, by ensuring and controlling quality throughout the product chain, from the manufacturer to the finished product. Furthermore, it is also an individual responsibility, through good hygiene at home with each individual consumer. It requires good information for consumers on how to provide good hygiene in their own kitchens. Food safety is also about safe consumers. We're not going to be afraid that there's something wrong with the food we eat. In the case of undesirable situations such as the E. coli case, information on measures and instructions to consumers should be clear and clear. You have to know what food is safe to eat and what food to stay away from. At the same time, it is important not to create unnecessary fear. It is also appropriate to focus on the information channels used in order to achieve the highest possible level. In addition, information needs to be easily understood and concrete. In such situations, responsibilities should also be clear, so that decisions can be taken quickly and, not least, with the power to enforce them. In view of this, it is not very reassuring to read in the evening post yesterday that there was a full dispute during the E. coli case between the Food Safety Authority and hired information advisors. As a representative of the magnification, I will be very careful to decide on the realities here, but it is of course worrying when questions are asked about the emergency and safety procedures of the Food Safety Authority from outsiders. I believe that, of course, the Council of State is also involved in these matters. In a study conducted by SIFO, people still regard Norwegian food as safe. 66 pst. perceived the information as good enough in the E. coli case. Anyway, as many as 31 pst. assessed the information received from the Food Safety Authority as unclear. Furthermore, 60 pst. by women and 48 pst. men changed their kitchen habits towards better hygiene in the kitchen after the E. coli case. That's good. Nevertheless, according to the Consumer Council, there is a need to invest in information and training in this area. It is positive that the Government has set up an external evaluation committee to go through the E. coli case, but the Government should also, in my view, have committed itself to providing a major communication on food security. It would provide a comprehensive review of the instruments in this area. The size should be presented as to what will result from the investigations and what measures will be taken to prevent this from happening again. A big message would also have been an important signal to consumers that the government is taking what happened in winter seriously. In a growing communication on food security, the Government would also have been able to present to the Stortinget a new administrative structure that would ensure clear responsibilities in relation to the situation where food security is threatened. Norwegian consumers must be sure that the food they eat is safe. For the Christian People's Party, it is desirable that the Government at least when, as we see it, they have now said no to a big message, prepare a plan of action in the wake of the E. coli investigation, which presents how to improve food security work for the future. This is such an important matter for all of us that we expect you to come back to Stortinget with a case about this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1031	The matter is serious because many became ill, one died, and many began to ask questions about the food we eat is safe. Uncertainty about these things that happened in our people is not good. If we remember, we remember it was very chaotic. New information was constantly coming, and one was quickly out with the information because one wanted us as consumers to take precautions. So information was given that might not be right, but they were given in the belief that this would help us as consumers. The representative of the Advance Party called for action from the Government in his post. I think what the Government has done, namely to set up a wide-ranging evaluation committee that should be unhesitating in relation to the environments we are talking about here in Norway, is very reassuring. So I think it is important that we give ourselves time to wait for what this evaluation committee reaches out to them from the mandate given to them, which, after what I hear, is very much in agreement about is a good mandate, a broad mandate. We must have such ice in our stomachs that we wait for the outcome of the evaluation committee before the Government assesses whether it should be put into action, possibly what kind of action to take. In advance to propose that one should start one and the other, I find it a little unwise. I have great faith that this evaluation committee will do an important and necessary job, and then the Government will have to decide on how to proceed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1045	It is very important that people are confident that the food they receive is as free as possible for harmful bacteria. This spring's very unfortunate case of harmful E. coli bacteria, which affect both children and adults, showed that there was not enough practice through all stages of production, among others. the supply, reception and handling of dirty animals and through the process of the treatment of slaughtered animals. It is also unacceptable that the product which is known to be infected with E. coli bacteria is still being sent into the market in the event of an error. Many rightly characterised the government's handling and information management of matters as unclear and chaotic. The left, however, believes that today's legislation and regulations are quite satisfactory. It is the practice of the law and regulations that are not good enough. The left is worried about an already passed industry where additional regulations and laws will only be translated and not followed up. It is not allowed to supply dirty animals to the slaughterhouse today, but E. coli-saka has shown that practice has not been good enough. It is very sad that so many people had to get sick before this problem became really serious. The left has faith that the entire industry through all branches, including the control authorities, is now following up current laws and regulations, so that a tragedy like this does not happen again. The left is concerned that consumers should be sure that the food that becomes food is satisfactory and free of bacteria. A happy development in the cold water of these cases has been research that suggests that most people have also become more concerned with kitchen hygiene and adequate heat treatment, which is a very important factor in getting safe food. Strengthening this information field will be an important element in ensuring people's clean and safe food. Better traceability of food has been mentioned before today. Better tracking of food, as far as I understand, is a political field, and it is a pleasure that the Government takes this seriously. The left-hander believes that a requirement for this to work after the target is for the user to understand the system. Then it's important, after the Left's opinion, that the system doesn't get too complicated. It must be so curative and easy for a normal user to benefit from the information. At the end of the day, I'm going to come up with a little bit of the point that the representative, Inge Wohnung, correctly pointed out, that the mess between the parties in the committee and in the room is not very big. It's some nuances. What the Left has said, and which is also stated in the comment, is that we have chosen to support the Government Party's setting here, which requires the document to be annexed to the protocol. But of course, the Left argues that the Government will follow up the case after its evaluation selection, when it is on the table. We're sure of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1060	I understand that the background to this document proposal is the tragic case of infection by E. coli O:103 in meat products that we all know well from this winter. The food law that came into force on 1 January 2004 replaces as it is known 13 previous laws. It now covers all aspects of the food production chain, from primary production up to and including placing on the market for the consumer. As is well known, as a result of the EEA Agreement, most of the Norwegian legislation in the field of food is now harmonised with EU legislation in this area. EU law is implemented in Norwegian law as legal acts are incorporated into the EEA Agreement. We are therefore bound by the common EEA legislation also in the case of conditions in Norway. As of 1 January 2006, the EU has introduced new, comprehensive legislation on hygiene and control of food and feed. This will, of course, also apply in Norway as soon as it has been incorporated into the EEA Agreement. I would like to comment on the proposals individually. Firstly, the proposal for immediate action against mutilated domestic animals — control of animal welfare. Good slaughter hygiene in accordance with applicable legislation is of course important in order to ensure safe food. In a meeting with the Minister for Agriculture and Food and Food in connection with the winter case, the meat industry promised to look at further measures to prevent dirty animals from coming to the slaughterhouses and also to report to the Food Safety Authority on possible dirty slaughter animals. As regards the control activities related to animal welfare, I refer you to the follow-up of St.meld. No 12 for 2002-2003, Animal husbandry and animal welfare. In this context, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs have prepared draft new animal welfare laws, which are planned to be consulted after the summer. As regards proposal No: 2, it is the enterprises that are obliged to establish traceability systems and have arrangements for this. The operator of the establishment shall be able to identify any supplier of food or raw materials and the undertakings to which their products have been supplied. The Minister of Agriculture and Food has announced that better traceability in the food sector is a policy area for this government. The Ministry of Food has launched a framework project called ‘E-tracking’ for the gradual development of a national electronic infrastructure for the efficient exchange of information in the food chain. The ambition is that the system will be operational in 2010. It shall be capable of tracing food and consumer information and labelling. As regards proposal No: 3, states that all foodstuffs placed on the market in Norway are to be safe for health. It shall not be necessary for consumers themselves to take specific measures to ensure that food is safe in addition to that resulting from general procedures and normal kitchen hygiene. The food portal was launched on the Internet in May 2003 and was one of the actions of the Consumer Policy Correction Action Plan. The food portal presents consumer-oriented information, including on the safe handling of food. Such information can also be found on the Food Authority’s pages. Food safety has been entrusted with working with the Directorate-General for Social and Health and the Directorate for Education to develop an appropriate teaching system for food production, hygiene, nutrition and labelling, adapted to children and young people. The scheme shall address the theme referred to in the new curriculum for food and health. I would also like to stress now, as I have done in the past, that information in a broad sense is essential in this area as well. As regards the issue of food security, when Stortinget dealt with food reform, there was a broad consensus about it, as it turned out. It is continuously renewed in the light of food reform and international development. I believe that the main challenge now is to a large extent to ensure that the new food reform is actually implemented. We don't want to rule out that there may also be a need for change here, but we're waiting for the review of E. coli. When the Minister of Agriculture and Food and I presented the E. coli O:103 case to the Stortinget in March, we announced that we were aiming for an external review of this case. The committee is known to be reduced and has a short term. Then I want to make sure that the Government will look very closely at the conclusions that this sample reaches. We shall also ensure that the Storting is, of course, properly briefed and put in place or propose changes if necessary. In what form this is going to happen, we're going to get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1087	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1090	There was nothing I disagree with in the statement made by the Council of State, but I have a question for the Council of State, given that this matter is very special. It is very rare that two expert councils ask to make a statement on the same day in Stortinget, and at very short notice. It is also very rare to reduce this type of foreign expert sample in order to assess the quality of the routines we follow in Norway. We agree that the matter is exceptional and that it calls for extraordinary attention. But does not the Council of State feel that a logical consequence of this is that the measures the Government intends to take on the basis of the evaluation are presented in an overall form of the Stortinget? That is what the minority proposal aims to do. We have not explicitly said a big message, but a separate matter with an action plan, so that the Storting can take a stand on this overall.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1099	I fully agree with the first part of the pay line. I would again like to stress that this was an extraordinary and, unfortunately, far too tragic case, because it also ended with a death. We have to do everything in our power to prevent it from happening again in the future. Therefore, of course, the Government has a very open attitude to the results of the review that this sample is now going to do of everything that happened in that process. The government, when it's done, will conclude whether we're going to have our own big message, whether we're going back to the Storting through the budget proposal or other ways. But what is quite clear is that the Storting should of course be briefed and involved. There may also be proposals for concrete changes. It is then a matter of course that the Storting should be involved, and finally certainly also to decide some things, depending on what we are going to propose – no matter what form it is in.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1106	I understand that the Council of State will not commit itself to providing a comprehensive communication on food security, but that it will await the evaluation committee’s report. When the Christian People's Party has so much stress on a big message, it is to be able to discuss this in context, to evaluate and look at the experience of food scandals, to look at the organisation of food surveillance and control bodies, to look at the challenges associated with the environment, to change global trade, to consumer changes, etc. and to discuss strategies for meeting these challenges. Our intention is to come on the offensive, so that, if new things come, we won't come back throating after the ball. Now I see a certain positive sound both in the article and in the answer to the previous line. The Council of State could confirm that it does not exclude a major message when it has been consulted on the evaluation committee's report.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1115	Yes, I would like to confirm that the Government does not exclude that the result can be a big message, but we say that we would like to see what the sample comes from conclusions and recommendations before we conclude in what form we will come back to Stortinget with this. I fully agree with the representative of Sørfonn. I perceive that there is a broad majority that we need to do everything we can to prevent similar tragic cases in the future. That's why the government decides to be on the offensive and not on the defensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1122	I think the Council of State could be much more obligating than the Government will discuss these issues with the Stortinget. I believe the Government and the Council of State are underestimating what the Storting can contribute to this matter. In my statement, I raised the question of who is responsible for the Food Safety Authority, and that the division in this matter between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture may be unfortunate, create difficult responsibilities and seem unclear. There may also be questions about who has the real responsibility. It can be difficult for both us here on the house and people outside to see who has the real responsibility. The question is whether the Council of State sees that bringing together this responsibility in one department can make the responsibilities clearer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1131	The government does not feel that today's organisation is problematic. We have always said that we are open to views on it, but just how the Government chooses to organize its work, I believe is the matter of the Government's internal affairs. I have no desire to underestimate the Storting in any way. Of course I don't. Of course, Stortinget will be allowed to be very involved in what may come of changes. What I'm saying is, the government hasn't concluded in what form it comes back to Stortinget. But the fact that the Storting is going to be more involved in determining what's going to happen next is quite obvious.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1138	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1143	I just need to make a few clarifications about things that have been said in the debate. The representative Ludvigsen explained the Left's view in the setting and underlined that the Left had found reason to join the government parties' proposal to attach the matter to the protocol. Just to ensure that there are no misunderstandings: I do not see the position so that it adds up to an alternative vote between the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party and the vote, because when there is a vote on our proposal, we will reasonably agree that the proposal should be annexed to the Minutes. I also need a small note on the post from the representative of the SV. He had some general views on the industrialisation of agricultural production and problems related to the transport of food. You can agree or disagree with this, but I think it really hits very bad as a comment on this matter. Firstly, Norwegian agricultural production is not particularly industrialised compared to what is found in most other countries in our part of the world. And secondly, it's remarkable that we haven't had food scandals of this magnitude related to imported food, which are partly transported from other parts of the world to Norway. It is a significant quantity of meat products sold in Norway, which originate from Latin America and Africa, respectively, and we have not had this kind of problems associated with it. So that explanation can't possibly keep up. The problems must lie elsewhere. So just one last remark about the procedure. I interpret the Council of State so that she keeps the door open so that the Government can find it right to do as the proposal of the Advance Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party requires, namely to bring an overall action plan to the Storting, to which the Storting can take a stand. And I also perceive her answer there that she's keeping the door open so that in that context it can also be relevant to discuss the organizational issues in terms of food security. Then we are relatively close to each other on a case-by-case basis, and I find that very satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1154	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2877]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1171	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2878]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1188	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2878]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1204	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Minister for Agriculture and Food 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1215	Inner. S. No 236 and St. Prp. No 68 is based on a negotiated result from Norway’s Bondelag and the state. Norwegian Farm and Small User Teams did not fully follow the signature. They thought the agreements weren't good enough for their members. At the bottom of this entry are the entries from St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000, and the Government has included its premises in the Government Declaration. So much can be said about the content, and I'm going to get more into it, but first I'm going to comment on the wish and the expectations the farmers had and have about what's in the Soria Moria statement. Many balances should be made when setting leadership for a new policy course – changes for an industry that wants long-term sustainability and a prudent situation. The Soria Moria Declaration is standing by. She has a four-year run. The arrangements of the agricultural agreements have become different from those of the previous government. The distribution profile is more favourable to those with smaller and medium-sized uses, although industry is still an important part of the income base. In some areas, the parties must look at the consequences of the policy that has been pursued in recent years, before any adjustment to the structure is made. Not least for those who have made investments and who depend on the ignition, it is important. I won't stay long at the opposition's positions to the agreements, but I must be allowed to say a little about the common view Right, the Progress Party and partly the Left have on the agricultural negotiations. The fact that these political parties want to remove the right to negotiate is, to put it mildly, alarming. Or maybe it isn't? Is it desirable to "crush" the organisational structure so strongly that it can no longer be packed, but is it ready to appear? The Government Party and the Christian People's Party believe the right to negotiate is a democratic process and supports it. The Committee's members, all outside the Progress Party, agree that we in Norway are to have a national food production based on the natural basis, which builds up under scattered bustetage and local productions. We in the Government Party have a greater focus on strengthening family use, including to ensure new recruitment. Farmers should be able to make greater use of the resources available to them. Over the years, investment has been lagging behind measures and impositions on animal welfare. This will help to ensure that a significant amount of investment is allocated in the year’s agreement, including in order to achieve more rational operation. It gives an important signal that we want to bet on agriculture. We had 100,000 agricultural holdings in 1989. Now we approach half. The country will change its rating in total if this continues. 38 pst. of the agricultural area is land for hire. It's going to be 30 pst. fewer milk producers in the last 15 years. In the case of joint ventures, with colossal investments, the number is 1 500. These are some examples of dramatic changes that can have unintended effects if we don't give incentives to cope with a development that we don't want. In 2004, Norway’s fjords became the world’s best nature-based destination. Then it is a paradox that developments before agriculture in the West are causing the greatest drain on the number of farms in the country. What should tourists experience if the cadastral parcels grow again? What if the animals are lost as a ‘cleaning team’? They're the ones that cancel out for re-growth. The additional quota of 1 million litres of milk for Finnmark to strengthen milk production is also a good example of a villa policy that strengthens the basis for further operations. There was a need for pasturage in the year’s specification. The interaction between animals and humans provides for the biological deficiency to a far greater extent than protection. The fact that the animals get to the woods and the fields, in addition, strengthens animal health, and the most important thing we see, is that the forest doesn't get the take-over where the grazing animals help. Mountain still becomes mountains and not deforestation. This year's agricultural agreement has several elements in itself, both on fresh money and tax havens. Efficiency withdrawals are included as one of the elements, and anticipated cost flares are also fundamental. An additional agricultural deduction is another one. In total, on the basis of the number of budget headings, the parties have concluded that this is approximately 270 million. crowns in addition to the same percentage development as comparable groups. And the whole deal is $850 million. kr more for farmers. That's the result. The device increases bet and stimulates more organic production. The target of 15 pst. Organic in 2015 is high, but if all sides are involved in this cooperation, right up until the trade in goods, we shall be happy. People are willing to pay more, and people are busy with health-related raw materials, which are organic food. It is also important that market prices are as close as possible to the target price. It strengthens the economy, and it particularly applies to pig production, where there is currently a large overproduction. The improvement of welfare schemes now and the improvement of the disease relief system have much to say, especially for younger farmers. Being able to get a few days off with your family, knowing that you don't have to ‘wear’ when anyone should be in bed, but having the necessary arrangements that everyone else has is a security. Forest bets are important. Youth care and new planting have been well received, and there is satisfaction in forestry. We're going to stimulate biofuels and other environmental measures, but we really don't have to forget that the forest has its place when it comes to export revenue and paper production. And then it's a renewable resource in line with sun and water. Here one with good administration can get many jobs and income gains of great importance for large parts of the country. Agricultural policy is difficult to get a full picture of. Administration is at many levels. At the same time, it's our job to make sure that the most possible transfers benefit farmers and consumers. Coordination takes place both within the research area and within the scope of its tasks. I'm thinking, for example: then on the report on the ‘whole quality system in Norwegian food production’. We have, and will in the years to come, increased focus on documentation on the production chain from soil to table. It also showed the last things that were being treated here. I'm glad that the industry is so aware of these challenges and is actively working to make the best use of the resources to satisfy us consumers. When it comes to the role of the Food Authority, the Soria Moria Declaration states explicitly that a greater part of the operating costs should be borne by the public. In the Labour Party, we expect that to happen. Farmers pay disproportionately much, and the tasks can certainly be seen in conjunction with veterinarians often on gardening visits. Norway is heading north. We have the best intentions to have clean and safe food. Called winters make sure that injecting drug use is low. Apple from Argentina is sprayed many more times than ours. We use money to produce good animal breeds, cf. money we spend on replacing goats. Norwegian food production is a long way off ecologically, and incentives must increase over the year in order for us to reach the target. Agriculture has many tasks, but in a sequence where national food production is the first. We have to provide for our own self-sufficiency, and then get, in addition, living settlements and grazing animals, which defy for growth. Animal husbandry contributes to a biological deficiency that gives all of us a cultural landscape we love. The leaders of the Soria Moria Declaration have clear formulations to achieve these goals. The agricultural agreement of the year provides for the arrangements. It'll be the task of the parties to activate it. The owner of the farm said during the hearing that this year's agricultural agreement was an important turnaround in order to improve the conditions for the industry, and we agree with the Farmers' Association that we are working well together on the job. This gives cause for optimism, and it needs to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1276	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1279	In the opinion of the Committee, the majority of the members stated in a comment: ‘In order to provide farmers with income development in line with other groups, it is important to exploit the resources available to the garden.’ There is no doubt that Norwegian agriculture is the most permeable industry in the country, probably the most permeable agricultural industry in the world. Is it the country or is it the individual holder who knows what resources each farm has? And does the rapporteur believe that abolishing regulations and giving the farmer back the freedom of nutrition, as all other traders have, could help give the individual farmer an income development outside public budgets, so that the farmer can also stand on his own feet?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1291	I almost want to start by saying that we are on each level when it concerns the agricultural policy of the Progress Party, and the Labour Party stands for – and the Government Party, for the sake of that cause. When the Progress Party is very busy lifting regulations, it's because they're taking agriculture out of its health. For us, it is important to see agriculture together with the fact that we are also going to use it as a district industry. We want some more objectives for our agriculture. We don't want to empty the villages and let them grow to allow some large uses in the central east, possibly in the Jären, to flourish – and then have imports on the rest. We're going to have food production all over the country. We have completely different formulations and completely different approaches to what is agricultural policy, and there we are so fundamentally disunited that I really don't think it is necessary to comment on anything more.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1300	The Minister of Agriculture and Food has stated that every use that is abandoned is a defeat for agricultural policy. So we now have a situation where we have a decrease in the number of uses and annual work every year of 3-4 pst. My question is whether the Labour Party's agricultural policy spokespersons share the views of the Council of State, that each use is a defeat. Or does the Labour Party also see that agriculture still needs to change, that developments in the number of uses will continue, and that there is a necessary development for agriculture? Can we imagine that the government's policy at the end of the period will have resulted in the fact that the decline is halting, and that you do not get these "lower laws", as the Council of State defines it as?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1307	To the last question: at least I hope there should not be 4 pst. decline when we've had four years of Soria Moria policy – just so it's said. Yes, agriculture needs to change, and there will be a change in agriculture. It will also be more efficient, and it will be so that machines take over. I'm not going to use the words that the Council of State has used – I'm not sure if I can fully follow him there – but we see well every day that there's going to be some use. It's pretty serious when it's true that 20-30 years ago use had 100 targets on average and now has 200 targets. There will be several separate users. And we're about to put some money in the budget for squabbling because the animals are going to be gone. What are we going to use agricultural policy for? We must soon have some discussions about – almost speaking – the completely elementary: what do we want with agriculture? I think we should have a joint debate on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1318	The representative said that the agricultural policy was the beginning of a change in price. I have to admit that I may see a slight price adjustment – that may have caused me to have a little difficulty in seeing this change in course – and a little adjustment in course, that is something else. I see that about half of the agricultural settlement is given in terms of tax relief, and if the price change is going towards tax relief becoming the main instrument of agricultural settlement, I see that it may be a change in price. But a course change is not a goal in itself. It is a tool to achieve a goal. So I'm a little curious when it comes to this mentioned price change – which I haven't seen yet. Where did the government party go? What port are they going to lead us to, with this change in course as they see fit?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1325	If I first give myself a tax comment, the representative Sørfonn and I are sure that it was a good arrangement this time to give some indication that this was something you could put into the green box. So we are facing some major challenges in relation to the WTO. It's probably not going to be the big one in the future. I think we need to find some other tools. We thought we've already given some signal in that direction. I would like to comment, for example: which in itself is small, but which means a lot: gravitational advances. We want a district agriculture. We're increasing our transfers to the districts. We give in to small animals – sheep and goats – which means a lot more than that: that means that we get someone to rub – which we are probably occupied with both – and not the big central mastodons, where the animals will hardly come out and draw fresh air. We want to see many course changes, but as I also said in my post – as the representative may have noticed: One cannot turn everything over overnight. This is an industry that asks for one to be a little bit long-term.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1334	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1338	Initially, I would like to include the suggestions in the vote that the Progress Party is behind. We have now left behind the most expensive adventures of spring – farming. The Government and the Norwegian Bondelag market this year's agricultural agreement as a major winner and a new agricultural policy course and turnaround. For others than these two parties, it is very difficult to see what this new course involves, and why this year there is reason to lift the flag and use horn music and fanfare to celebrate. Even if you use a magnifying glass, you can't find any major changes. When this announcement of an agreement comes without mentioning the close cooperation between the Norwegian Bond Team and the Center Party at all, some alerts should ring. It would be quite unmistakable that the Norwegian Farmers' Team would break this year's negotiations, as the Small Farmers' Team has done. It would have put the Senterparte in a totally unsustainable situation and been a great prestige team. The close relations of the Minister of Agriculture with the management of the Norwegian Bondelag illustrate this well. The Progress Party is strongly critical of the agricultural policy that has been pursued in the post-war period and which is still wanted to be continued by the current government. We cannot therefore in any way support the negotiated agricultural agreement, because it does not offer any new means of agricultural policy – despite the fact that both the agricultural industry and other agricultural-related actors have asked for a change of course in the agricultural policy. The policy that has been against agriculture for many years is a socialist experiment, which has contributed to the Norwegian farmer being caught up in a network and in a system from which it is now almost impossible to get out. Agricultural policy is characterised by a strong drive to regulate the agricultural industry down to the smallest detail and by public bureaucrats and very detailed legislation governing how agricultural development is to take place. The control to be exercised by the individual farmer over his own property and work has disappeared. The farmers are today more to be regarded as public servants and practitioners of a public policy than self-employed in the food production industry, which they should have been. This has led to a lack of creativity, ability to invest and a desire to take risks in large parts of agriculture. There is also reason to point out that the agricultural contract system has become so complex and complicated that, apart from the central bureaucracy of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, it is possible to get involved in all aspects of the system and fully understand it. That should be worrying. It is also worth noting that there is no other country in the OECD area — or worldwide — that has found it useful to practice a system of an agricultural agreement. There is good reason to believe that the extensive agricultural legislation creates a huge bureaucracy – both in the public administration and in the industry – that binds on large resources, which could have been used for agricultural value creation and moved into the industry as income rather than as public transfers, as today. I have asked the Council of State questions about how many bureaucrats are working on agricultural-related issues. It's hard to get a clear answer to that. I find it strange that the Council of State does not want to respond to the number of public servants associated with agriculture in state, county and municipal administrations. There is good reason to assume that the number of employees of agricultural bureaucrats is very high and that little is done to reduce the number. The Progress Party believes that this has revealed a weakness in general government by not having an overview of the tasks of public sector employees. The current look-up in the media around the WTO shows that there will be a sharp reduction in import protection in the wake of international developments through WTO negotiations. This is a development that Norway does not control alone. The development offers a gradual increase in competition for Norwegian agricultural products. Despite a high level of customs protection, the Norwegian authorities have not set out a plan for meeting such a trend in Norwegian agriculture. This is very critical. The result may be that Norwegian agriculture will have a blue day when the outcome of the WTO negotiations becomes known. I also believe that it is totally inappropriate for the sitting government to veto some WTO negotiations. I don't think the Workers' Party will be involved in that. The lead party is of the opinion that the development of a more robust production based on market economy criteria must be a top priority and must be developed before import protection falls. The Norwegian food industry is under pressure from abroad and it is important that Norwegian agricultural policy ensures that the industry receives raw materials at a competitive price. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to structuralise agriculture so as to reduce unit costs. Industry is competitive vis-à-vis foreign operators in processing and industrial production. However, commodity costs are too high in relation to our neighbouring countries and may threaten important jobs and industrial value creation with increased imports. The food industry accounts for about 20 pst. of employment and value added in industry. A common feature is that production is relatively labour-intensive despite the use of very modern technologies by enterprises. Norway must therefore use the remaining time to adapt the primary production level to the new everyday life that everyone sees coming in a relatively near future. The government must therefore have an active attitude to this and not, as it is today, be passive about the gradual developments. The outcome of such a policy would seriously harm the food industry. I also refer to our remarks where we refer to the recommendation of a majority of the government-appointed Industry Committee on the framework conditions for the food industry to survive in the future. It is worth noting that central representatives of some government parties are also among the majority. Agricultural policy entails significant costs in terms of public expenditure, high food prices and reduced nutrition for farmers. All the restrictions and obstacles imposed by concession restrictions, administrative prices, production quotas and selective aid schemes have been devastating to farmers. The promotion party will therefore give a strong priority to a reorientation where deregulation, red tape and competition are put at the top of the agenda. The analysis company ECON prepared a report in 2004 on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. This report concludes that the many agricultural regulations can be lifted favourably, as they primarily restrict the development of the industry and work negatively in relation to the value creation of agriculture. The conclusions of the ECON report must be implemented as soon as possible in order to ensure new agricultural growth and optimism. If the Ministry of Agriculture and Food does not wish to implement the conclusions of a report that they themselves have ordered, I therefore expect this report to be read well in the Department and that we here in the Stortinget will be able to see the results of it quite soon. I would also like to comment on a relationship in this setting that is very interesting. The position shows that the Progress Party, the Right and the Left are very much in favour of agricultural policy. It also promises good cooperation on agricultural policy, and I believe that everything should be in place to enable these parties to prepare a number of common comments in the next year to show a new path and a new course in agricultural policy. This contrasts with what some have said in the media about the agricultural policy of the Progress Party. The representative Ivar Kristiansen from the Right said to Stavanger Aftenblad on 19 May that there is a ‘light year’ between the Agricultural Policy of the Progress Party and the Right and that the Right should now have a new course in agricultural policy. It is good to note that the representative Ivar Kristiansen has not gained an impact on his view in the Right, but that the Right wants to pursue a more offensive agricultural policy. I can also very much subscribe to many of the comments that the Left also has in the setting. Now it is important to focus on further development in agriculture, create optimism, stop the one-sided problem focus that is in Norwegian agriculture, give the farmer freedom back and stimulate innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1372	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1377	There is one party that stands out strongly in this setting, and that party is – not surprisingly – its representative Kielland Asmyhr, the Progress Party. If the Progress Party had had had an impact on its policy, there would not have been much agriculture left in this country, with the consequences it would have. The Progress Party claims that the number of uses and active farmers is moving faster with today's agricultural policy than if they had been released. Yes, it is right that conversion and rationalisation take place in agriculture, but there is a difference between shaving and cutting off the whole head. The Progress Party will modernise agricultural policy by no longer integrating agriculture into rural policy. Has the Progress Party considered what kind of consequences this would have for the construction pattern and the cultural landscape?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1386	It is quite rightly observed by the representative that the Progress Party in this area is responsible for a different policy than many of the other parties. The Progress Party also does so in many other areas of society. It has something to do with the fact that the Progress Party is an offensive party, it's a party that thinks new, it's a party that dares to face the challenges we're facing in society. I think it is quite free from a representative from the Labour Party who has been in charge of agricultural policy throughout the post-war period, to accuse the Progress Party of the depopulation of Norwegian districts, when you see what has been the situation. During this period, there has been a great deportation from the districts into central districts, and today you can hear a lot of complaints from what can be called districts. You should make your own living before you shoot at the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1391	The Party of Progress shall vote against the agricultural settlement of the year and shall give reasons for its decision. There they refer to a question to the Minister of Agriculture where the answer shows that there is no other country in the OECD area that has such an agricultural agreement as a framework system for agriculture. However, the same response shows that both the EU and the United States have consultation processes and consultation mechanisms that enable agriculture to influence its framework conditions and to make representations before it enters the State budget. I think that's quite important, because there are a lot of single parameters here that will greatly affect agriculture. Does not the Progress Party also see that if we are to abandon farming as a form of agricultural policy, we must have a consultation system or a consultation process in advance of the fact that these framework conditions are included in the State budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1398	I think it's a strange question from a representative of the Right Party. The Party of Progress is a party which is generally in favour of consultation arrangements. But I would just like to know what other industries on the right have a consultation arrangement before the industry's framework conditions are established. The Progress Party will have a close and close dialogue with all the industries in this country. We engage in close dialogue and address the challenges and issues facing these industries. It would also be natural to approach the Storting at a consultation when the State budget is to be set, so that the Storting can be able to understand the challenges facing the agricultural industry, in line with that of other industries, for example. industry – where there is currently no consultation mechanism. I would assume that the Right would not have that type of consultation arrangement in relation to that type of industry either.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1405	In its alternative budgets, the Progress Party has always made dramatic cuts in support of agriculture. In the last period, the Progress Party had the opportunity to influence agricultural policy. The reality was that in the years they settled the budgets with the government, 40 billion kroner were adopted for the farmers. There is a significant gap between the cuts proposed and the actual result. $14 billion was proposed for cut over three years, and $20 million. kr was reached – and the cut of 20 million. kr was in the hands of the Food Authority and the Veterinary Institute, which are today both important environments of competence in the pursuit of dangerous food bacteria. Then I think there's reason to ask if the Progress Party really believes that the cuts they want to carry out are possible when it comes to the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1412	The representative knows we don't live in any non-profit world. I would assume that SV will not be able to make any impact on all of their programme posts in the cooperation they are currently in. In the last period we negotiated the budget with the then government parties. We had a huge impact on progress party policy over the four years – and we had to give in to other areas. Agricultural policy was one of the areas in which we did not have a major impact, even though it was then a more positive development in agricultural policy than we will see in the next four years. Our budgets and remarks are based on the fact that the Progress Party has a majority in the Stortinget. I would assume that this also applies to SV – that in cooperation you cannot assume that you will get an impact on all of your programme formulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1421	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1424	In my opinion, the agricultural negotiations and the final settlement for 2006 were somewhat surprising. The negotiation offer did not contain significant price changes either on the device or within the framework of the policy of the Bondevik II administration, and negotiations also ended with the break-out of the Farmer and Small User Team and the contravention of the agreement. In its final comment in the consultation note to the Economic and Social Committee, the Farmers' and Small Consumers' Group writes that the agreement continues the main features of today's agricultural policy and is contrary to the objectives of the Government itself communicating to Norwegian agriculture. This was illustrated by the Farmers' and Small Farmers' Team to the Business Committee by providing the Committee with an hourglass symbol of the Central Party's agricultural policy with the following words: 'Every use to be taken down is a defeat'. This is well in line with the statements made by the Minister of Agriculture in Varden on 26 January 2006: ‘For me, each closure is a defeat.’ The number of agricultural holdings fell by 46 pst. from 1989 to 2005, a total decrease of 46,200 use of 16 years. The outlook for 2006 with a new government is a continuing decline of almost 4 pst. The Minister of Agriculture is therefore responsible for a policy that this year provides about 2 100 abandoned uses, and we can describe this as 2 100 defeats for the Government only this year. It is strange, however, that the Government does not show signs of any significant adjustment in policy direction if it is perceived as a failure. Here is the distance between the rhetoric of the election campaign, the Soria Moria declaration, comments from the Council of State and the actual policy of the Government, significant. So we're facing a traditional agricultural settlement. This shows that the trends and challenges facing Norwegian agriculture are the same now as before the elections, and that the instruments to meet the challenges are the same now as before the elections. A meeting with reality, such as The centre party is now experiencing, I think it is healthy for the debate on Norwegian agricultural policy. The right believes that agriculture is an important industry for many communities and municipalities, and that viable communities mean a great deal to decentralised settlements. Like the majority, the right considers, with the exception of the Advance Party, that Norway must have food production that takes into account food security, local traditions and the natural basis. Having farming opportunities in all parts of the country is an important means of maintaining a decentralised settlement. Norwegian farmers need stable and predictable framework conditions in line with other businesses. This does not mean that future agriculture will be as it is today. The rate of conversion is high and the efficiency processes of agriculture are continuous. The right is committed to making proposals that ensure better profitability and better recruitment in agriculture. But the agricultural agreement itself, as an instrument, is basically against us. It is generally wrong for farmers’ organisations to negotiate, alone with the government, a framework for their own industry, for the food industry and for consumers, as well as for central district policy, and that all this is done outside the ordinary budgetary procedure. This year it is also the case that one of the organisations, the Farmers and the Small User Team, has broken and withdrawn from the agreement. Thus, there will be a whole settlement and an agreement between the League and the Government. We believe this to be problematic from a democratic perspective and an obstacle to seeing this part of enterprise and district policy in conjunction with other policies, as the State budget puts it. Agriculture is highly pervasive, and farming provides a detailed framework for many farmers. We believe that complexity is high and that adjustments to individual parameters could have a major impact on many farmers. Therefore, the right considers that farmers’ organisations and the food industry should have a permanent consultation system with the State in order to be able to make representations to the budget. This would be a special scheme for this industry as opposed to other industries, but it would be a significant step towards today's system of own negotiations and an agricultural settlement before the State budget. Consultation mechanisms and consultations are also the method used in other western countries in agricultural policy. As far as we know, no other country has agricultural negotiations. It says a little bit about this institute dating back a long time ago. On this basis, the right promotes two proposals, one in which we oppose this year's agricultural agreement, and one in which we propose a system of consultation in the context of government budget work. On the right, it seems positive that government parties are now again brushing dust from tax reliefs as a commercial policy tool. This will benefit farmers with commercial incomes. But to the right, it is unacceptable if the government plans to finance these tax concessions to farmers with anti-commercial tax incentives for other groups. The right will not participate in such a coverage if it is to be included in the State budget. We would also point out that this is a price change, as the Government stepped up the taxation of, among other things. agriculture significantly in the 2006 budget. The right is committed to giving individual farmers the greatest possible ability to stand on their own feet and to exploit the resources and opportunities available to individual farms. We believe that it is quite obvious that it is the individual farmer, not the state or the farmers' organizations, who are best placed to determine how operations should be arranged in order to achieve the greatest possible return. We therefore believe that the agricultural industry needs less regulation and better room for creativity. In this context, we have pointed out that joint ventures are a way of organising operations that can release resources. Collaboration is not just modern and profitable. It also makes the industry more attractive to young people who want to invest in agriculture. I believe that those who are currently betting on freshly on agriculture are concerned about having opportunities for an orderly working time, holiday and leisure time. We therefore respond to the fact that farmers in several places are refused to organise themselves in joint ventures as a result of a rigid code for the number of participants. We also note that the centre party representatives from Ørskog in Møre and Romsdal protest at this rigid rule, without being heard by their party traps in the Ministry of Agriculture. However, the right is listening to these recordings, and we are therefore promoting proposals for the decoration of the co-operation legislation. The right considers that a stronger ownership of agriculture and districts is necessary to ensure that farmers retain their values and that farmers as traders can feel secure for future investments. When ownership is impaired, the prices of placing on the market of use are also set at an too low level and are likely to invest in future infrastructure. The current strict regulation of the use and placing on the market of property is a major obstacle to the development of the agricultural industry. Therefore, the general ban on division in the soil law will be lifted by the right. We place the decisive emphasis here on the argument that the forestry industry is leading in relation to the fact that the farmer himself is best suited to making decisions relating to his own property, and we distance ourselves from a policy that does not respect the values that Norwegian farmers have built up on their use through generations. In addition, a more liberal movement of property will make it easier for persons other than farmers to live on or near agricultural property. We believe this in the Right is an important quality in relation to living in rural areas, which I see the Minister of Municipalities in today's Evening Post is also concerned about. We need to make use of the opportunities in the districts, we need to be able to make it attractive for more people to live in the districts. We also agree with the Progress Party that we want equivalent conditions of competition in the dairy sector as well. In this context, it is important that the system of back-testing be continued until we put in place a functioning system of capital return requirements for Tine. The urgent need to regulate the conditions of competition in the dairy sector is strongly underlined by the fact that the Q dairies have brought actions against the State today. Q-meierines require compensation of at least 150 million. for defects and obvious shortcomings in the design and implementation of the market organisations which, in their view, conflict with the assumptions of the Storting. On the right, it is regrettable that we have got this situation on the dairy side, and will encourage the government to clean up, so that competition can take place on as equal a level playing field as possible. I would like to end by including the Right suggestion in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1473	The representative Torbjørn Hansen has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1478	Exactly two years ago today, the then government parties, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, together with the Progress Party, decided to withdraw the main agreement for the fishing industry, the so-called fisheries agreement. This almost 40-year-old important social agreement was removed without any prior discussion with the fishing industry, and in a position that concerned a completely different matter. I allowed myself at the time to ask questions about when the agricultural agreement would go the same way. At the time, I received strong reactions from the Right, saying that this was not a current policy. I heard nothing about it in the comments of the representative Hansen here today. What has happened in these two years that makes the Right now promote a proposal that means the withdrawal of the agricultural agreement? Has this time been in contact with the industries concerned as to what they think about this proposal before it was promoted?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1485	First of all, I would like to say to Mr Arnesen that the removal of the fisheries agreement has gone well. I have not registered many in the industry who miss it very much. If this is to be the basis for maintaining agricultural policy as a framework for agriculture, I don't think this is a big problem. But we also see that the development of agriculture is going down rapidly, without today's arrangement of these settlements having a significant impact. We believe that a deregulation of the industry needs to be implemented. We think it makes sense that this is done in budgetary terms, so that these instruments can be seen in the context of other policy instruments. We believe that such a consultation mechanism and consultation process as we see many countries, both in the EU and in the United States, are instruments that provide agriculture with good opportunities to influence its framework conditions. We think that's a better solution than today's system, which we believe has expired.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1492	On page 14 of the suspension, the former government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, claim that the agricultural policy pursued between 2001 and 2005 created new optimism in the industry and provided a basis for efforts for those who would create a living in the enlarged agricultural policy. Firstly, it might be interesting to hear why not the Right has joined this reality description from its former colleagues. Does the Right disagree? It is possible that the explanation lies precisely in the fact that the Right wants to liquidate the negotiating institute – the very pillars of Norwegian agricultural policy, yes, of the Norwegian negotiating economy. It might be interesting to hear if there are other areas where the Right wants to wind up the negotiating institute. If not, can the representative Hansen explain why it is right to keep the negotiating institute in the reindeer industry, which is the next thing on the programme?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1501	I think it makes a lot of sense in the comments of the Christian People's Party and the Left, but we have written our own comments and have chosen to focus on them. I therefore see no reason to comment further on what the Christian People's Party and the Left have said. We don't have plans per. Today to remove the reindeer management agreement, but it is an agreement of around 100 million. kr, while the agricultural holding amounts to more than 11 billion DKK each year. After all, it is an instrument of such a dimension that, in a budgetary context, it is natural to see agricultural production in the context of the other food policy instruments. As I said, it is not an abrupt removal of the whole opportunity to get agriculture to record its views on the framework conditions. We want a consultation mechanism that provides an opportunity to influence, so that there is no undesirable effect of such a system.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1508	The right still wants transfers to agriculture. The right also wants a variety of public-organised instruments for such an important industry, and the right claims that they are a party that takes business seriously. In this year's agricultural settlement, the Right will take away from the business organisations the right to negotiate with the State, one of the instruments that the Right themselves says they are engaged in. Does the Right see that there is a paradox that the Right Party facilitates more government without taking business organisations on board and dissuading important organisations in the development of Norwegian agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1515	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are no other industries in this country, and probably no other country in the world, which has such a system for agriculture. In our view, a consultation mechanism will be a completely natural modernisation of the framework conditions for agriculture and will continue to provide great opportunities for democratic involvement in that process. I would also like to draw the attention of the representative to the fact that the Grand Duchy is democratically elected, and that the Government is generally democratically appointed. So the fact that big business and government set framework conditions for an industry is a democratic and natural process. What makes agriculture special is that industry per year. Today, the degrees are so detailed that it is necessary to have a process to ensure that the instruments do not have adverse effects if changes are made. As long as the industry is as detailed as it is, we need mechanisms to ensure the industry has good influence.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1522	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1525	When the Storting vote tonight for the agricultural settlement of the year, there is a historical rush through the air. On 1 December 1975, more than 30 years ago, the Stortinget took the famous accession decision, following an initiative by SVs Berge Furre. Today, the Stortinget approves an agreement and an agricultural settlement made between agriculture and a government in which SV participates for the first time in history. These two points in time — in recent Norwegian history — are bound together by an SV that throughout this period has a beating, warm heart for Norwegian agriculture. That's a lot of reasons. The fact that food is produced in Norway means that food is transported shorter than if we had imported the same food, which is good for the environment. The fact that the food is produced in our own backyard means that the Norwegian authorities have more opportunity to place food on quality and safety in Norwegian food than we have on imported food. But agriculture is also more than food. These are jobs throughout the country. It concerns forestry, culture and the tradition of animal husbandry, and it concerns cultural landscapes. Agriculture has many functions and many values. This does not mean that agriculture is flawless or unchallenged. Most people know that SV’s strong love for agriculture is crossed by a critical view that more places in the country need exceptional measures to clean up after run-off from agriculture. We've seen a lot of examples of animal abuse in the last few months. There is no State secret that there are individuals and fires in agriculture that act as drivers for the use of organic and more forward-looking forms of production. The question is how to address these challenges in a positive way, while at the same time creating more optimism in the industry, in order to increase recruitment and create a new glow in agriculture. I am proud that this year's agricultural settlement has addressed several of these challenges. What distinguishes this agricultural settlement from that of the previous government is the genuine will to achieve something — a new direction, a new optimism in agriculture. With regard to optimism and recruitment, it is good to be able to point out that in this year’s agreement, income development and social conditions have been negotiated in line with other groups. The need for better welfare systems in agriculture is also important for recruitment and the year’s agreement has taken this into account. In addition to the holiday and leisure arrangements, there are also improvements in the sickness replacement scheme. This is positive. Investment needs in industry are high. It is therefore important to provide funds for development measures and new industrial development in agriculture. The framework for investment vehicles is therefore increased by 45 million. kr., and this is an important political signal that it will be invested in Norwegian agriculture. The environmental profile is strengthened in this year’s agreement by targeting the instruments. The establishment of a new grazing premium is important to stimulate increased grazing, cultural landscape management and to curb reforestation. The Agreement provides for an increase in the allocation of the SMEL Facility on specific environmental measures in the agricultural cultural landscape. Green travel is also an important initiative, and the agreement provides for a green travel development programme in Norway within a framework of 25 million. kr. The agreement facilitates the increase in the production and consumption of renewable energy. The Government announced that it would return to the distribution of measures and the design of instruments for both forestry and bioenergy in the 2007 budget proposal. The ecological perspective will also have a stronger focus on the future. It's an ambitious goal The government has set itself on organic production and consumption of 15 pst. in 2015. In this context, I would like to remind you that a majority of the Industry Committee, when dealing with the 2006 State Budget, stated: ‘This majority points out that the basis for these developments should be laid as early as possible, and therefore asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy with a plan for achieving this objective.’ In today's attitude, government parties, together with the Christian People's Party, stress the importance of continuing and strengthening measures to improve the market for organic products. In further work on the development of organic farming, Stortinget also asks the parties to assess measures for organic meat production. These are elements that the Government is given the opportunity to come back to in the announced plan. Agriculture continues to face challenges. It also has agricultural policy. I would therefore like to remind you that this year's settlement is the first of four settlements in this period. It's a way to go, and that way we're going to go. Although Norway’s farmers during the consultation indicate that the year’s agricultural settlement has been an important turning point in order to improve the industry’s framework conditions, we are not in the process of doing so. It was, of course, sad that the Farmers and Small Farmers team chose to break the negotiations, but I can assure you that the government parties have noticed that during the hearing it was expressed the need for more priority to be given to small and medium-sized uses and family use, which I fully agree with. In the Soria Moria platform, it says: «Agriculture plays an important role in housing and employment in large parts of the country.» And it goes on to say: ‘Norwegian food soil is a limited resource for which it is a national responsibility to care for our descendants.’ I am proud that today we are adopting the first step to fulfill these promises. This is the first of four settlements in this period. It's a way to go, and that way we're going to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1579	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1582	I noticed that the representative in his post said that we should bet on small and medium-sized applications. It might be interesting to ask the representative if SV has noticed that the small user team has broken these negotiations, and what SV will do with it in order to meet the small user team in subsequent negotiations. So it might be appropriate to ask questions about what SV thinks about using taxes as an instrument against industries. SV is a party that doesn't exactly want to stand for tax relief. How does SV view this tax haven't benefited young farmers who invest in their properties, and small farmers who struggle to raise their income?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1590	To the first question: I think, of course, as I also said from the pulpit, that it is sad that the farmers' and small farmers' team chose to break the negotiations. But I also meant what I said from the Chair, that in the course of the next year's agricultural settlement, it is important that small and medium-sized and family use be prioritised, because of the structure of agriculture. In this context, I would also like to refer to the structural committee which has been set up as a follow-up to the agricultural settlement of the year. In the case of taxes as an instrument, it is a fundamental misunderstanding that SV is against using taxes as an instrument. On the contrary, SV is very much used to use taxes as an instrument, among other things. the distribution policy. As far as agricultural policy is concerned, we regard taxation as one of several instruments that can form the basis for viable agriculture as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1597	The representative used terms such as ‘historical sus’, SV’s banking heart for agriculture and, not least, workplaces throughout the country — high rhetoric, fine words, which are positively charged in all ways. But then this is the reality, from rhetoric to reality. One of the major problems that the small used ones are struggling with, at least in the West, which I know best, is the ability to organise operations in such a way that the families that drive can both get leisure time and have opportunities to invest in a proper way through co-operation. There's a code today that makes small usages have no possibility of getting into the volume that's going on, because there's a roof set. We're now proposing to remove or at least raise this roof, so that even small farmers can come along. The alternative is that many of them go down. How does SV view this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1602	In principle, I will refer to this structural committee, which has been set up as a follow-up to the agricultural settlement of the year. I expect this to be one of the questions that the structural committee is going to be discussing. Co-operation will have consequences for long-term structure. We know that when farmers join forces. In the first generation, it can be operated as a joint venture, but the future is uncertain as to whether this type of operation could have consequences for the size of Norwegian use in the future. It is a concern that we have, in relation to which units we are going to have in agriculture in the future. This question is something to which one must, of course, come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1607	Ovines are eel-ridden animals’, was an oral cavity that hung at SV for many years. Although the representatives now point out that they want to take sides for small uses, it is a reality that the small user team went out, and that it was the Bond team that won out of these negotiations. Is SV, who has previously claimed to be champions of small and medium-sized users, small and rural gardeners comfortable losing them in the agricultural negotiations of the year, and that it is the Farmer and the larger gardeners who have been given the advantage?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1612	I have noticed with pleasure that what the parties to the agricultural sector promoted as their proposals in the negotiations was marked by the interests of the farmers and small farmers. I believe that this is also possible in the final outcome of the negotiations, and it may not be surprising, given that the farmers and small farmers team went out very late in the round of negotiations. In fact, they were able to put a mark on the negotiations even if they broke in the last round. I want to repeat what I said in the beginning, that I think it is sad that the farmers and small farmers team chose to break. But I think we have a starting point for next year's agricultural settlement, and we still have three left in this big period. I believe that with the focus on small and medium-sized and family use, with the signal given in relation to the privatisation of quota rights, and the signal given in relation to the ecologization of agriculture, we have a lot to work with the Farm and Small User Team on in the further settlements.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1619	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1622	The attitude in this matter shows that, after all, there is broad political agreement on the objectives of agricultural policy. For the Christian People's Party it is important 1. ensuring stable and sustainable soil conditions and the same income development as other occupational groups2. to have a food production covering food security, local traditions and natural resources3. to have an active agriculture to keep up with the main features of the buset pattern we have today, which can facilitate a varied structure of use; The Christian People's Party is pleased that a broad plurality – all parties apart from the Progress Party – ends up with these goals, which to confusion are similar to the formulations of the Christian People's Party's party program. Of course, we have nothing against that! In the Christian People's Party, it is important to cooperate with the state and agricultural organizations. Such cooperation increases the potential for achieving the objectives of agricultural policy. We want a democratic system that gives the organisations responsibility and influence over the development of the industry. In the case of the contract itself, there are some different assessments. In the Christian People's Party, we feel that the government party, which naturally strongly defends the agreement, is driving a bit of romantic rose measurement. In the Christian People's Party we think there is reason for a slightly more sobering approach. The Christian People's Party believes that the main means of new recruitment to the agricultural industry are income development in line with other occupational groups and satisfactory welfare arrangements. We are somewhat doubtful whether the present agreement provides for a particular increase in net income. Because it's not just the income as a path. Costs also rise, in particular energy costs and interest expense. An increase in indebtedness also makes this industry more vulnerable to any interest rate increase. Surprisingly, taxation is also becoming the main act of the Government to increase agricultural incomes. In the Christian People's Party, we are not negative to tax laws as a tool, but it must be done with other measures. An increase in agricultural incomes is primarily good for those who have entrepreneurial incomes above a certain level, while for example: young users who have just taken over the garden, and other deferred groups who often have low incomes, benefit only to a small extent from an increase in agricultural income. Increased income is the best way to slow down the rate of discontinuation of use. This government is also laying the groundwork for a decrease in the number of annual works of approx. 4 pst. In the Christian People's Party, we are concerned that a high rate of conversion can result in an accidental sharp decline in agriculture. Living gardening is absolutely necessary to take care of our cultural landscape. For this reason, the Christian People's Party agrees that we are now focusing on livestock grazing through an own grazing premium, and that the target prices are increasing for sheep, lamb and vegetable production. St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000 had a strong focus on multifunctional agriculture. It is therefore important that there is no contrast between volume production and niche production. Both are necessary if we are to have a robust agriculture in line with the St.melds target. No 19th@item: Food production will always be the main pillar, and here also organic farming has its natural place. However, agricultural policy needs to be wide enough to exploit the full potential of gardance income. The objective of a varied use structure must govern the design of the support schemes. The approach in this case shows that there is reasonably broad political agreement on the objectives of agricultural policy, but that there are some different assessments of the good agreement and of some elements of the agreement. The Christian People's Party also notes that the Government, through this agreement, does not provide particularly new political leadership for the future agricultural policy. From the Christian People's Party's side, we in the agricultural policy in the future will pay particular attention to: that agriculture needs a better net income in order to attract new recruits to welfare arrangements must be assisted by productivity gains must be used to increase farmers’ incomes if the pace of conversion does not have to be so high that we get an accidental reduction that we do not see any contradiction between niche production and volume production; we actually need both.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1682	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1685	The Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party have often been united in agricultural policy, and we in the Workers' Party note that at this year's settlement we met with the Christian People's Party in connection with many central and important remarks in the position. We're glad, because that is, we have a broader and more solid majority behind this agreement. So I want to ask the representative Sørfonn whether this means that the Christian People's Party agrees with the direction that agricultural policy is now taking.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1690	The Christian People's Party is concerned that Norwegian agriculture should be given good conditions, because we need Norwegian agriculture, and we are looking for alliances where it is possible to get as good an agricultural policy as possible. We have the right to support the agreement. We thought that when an agreement has been concluded, it is right to support him. At the same time, we have tried to point out that he has certain weaknesses. It is probably right, as the representative says, that the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party have occasionally found themselves together, but if my memory is not entirely lost, I also mean that it has not been so unusual that the Right Party and the Labour Party have found themselves together during the treatment of agricultural policy in the Stortinget. So it's a lack of a broken map we've looked up over the years when it relates to alliances in agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1699	After all, the setting cracks in all directions with respect to the previous government batches. I have noticed that the Christian People's Party does not have its own proposals in the vote, and that they have found this year's agricultural settlement well enough for them to vote in favour of the vote. This is joyous. At the same time, it is not surprising that the former government parties are separating layers in the view of the year’s settlement. The distance is quite wide between the Right and the Advance Party, who want to wind up the negotiating institute, and the Christian People's Party and the Left, who express satisfaction with the agricultural policy that has been pursued in recent years. It might have been interesting to hear if the Christian People's Party is not really quite easy not to discuss the agricultural settlement with its old government colleague Right, not to talk about negotiating and settling budgets with the former budget buddy Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1709	No, this has not been and is not a problem. We have never hidden the fact that the Christian People's Party and the Right, and so far also the Left, are different parties that have different policies in many areas. But in the government, we didn't have any problems finding each other. I also remind you that in all the agricultural decisions that we had during the four-year period we had the Cooperation Government, there was agreement with the League of Independents. So I don't know it in any way as an easy one. I just want to repeat what I said to the previous replicator, that for us in the Christian People's Party, it is really important that we be able to participate, whether we are in position or in opposition, in order to have as good a framework as possible for Norwegian agriculture. We need Norwegian agriculture to take care of the whole country, and this will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1714	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1717	Norway has rich grazing resources, a cold climate and small properties. Norway will never win the international battle for cheap food. However, Norway has a responsibility to help ensure food security in the world. It is therefore important for the Centre Party to pursue an agricultural policy that contributes to the exploitation of its resources for food production. Strong agriculture throughout the country is essential to ensure housing and employment, and to preserve cultural landscapes and the environment. Agricultural policy must be based on the importance of agriculture for society and for districts, and not least on fundamental respect for property rights. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government stresses that it will ‘ensure farmers to develop incomes and social conditions in line with other groups’. In this opinion, there is a clear commitment by the Government to increase the income targets and strengthen the welfare systems in the industry during the ageing period. It is important to establish that this government has a significantly higher level of ambition for the development of incomes in agriculture than what we felt the previous government had. Differences in income between agriculture and other groups have increased in recent years. The slow growth of income over several years may be the main cause of the sharp decline in use. In view of this, it was now necessary to conclude an agricultural agreement where there is a possibility of income growth in industry. As a result, I am pleased that this year there was an agreement with the Norwegian Bond Team. Without this agreement, the agricultural situation in the country had been significantly worse and more unclear. The main measure of increased income in the year’s settlement is tax relief in the form of increased agricultural deductions. This is a WTO-robust instrument, and as such important also in a wider context. Where the majority of the Committee expresses a somewhat reserved position on this instrument, this is not related to the fact that one does not consider that tax relief can be applied in the context of an agricultural agreement, but is primarily related to the fact that this means of action largely benefits only those who already have a significant entrepreneurial income. Young users who have just taken over the farm and who are in an investment phase will usually have lower entrepreneurial incomes. They will only benefit to a limited extent from increased agricultural deductions. For this reason, fiscal instruments such as increased agricultural deductions generally need to be combined with other measures that increase industry revenue. The Soria Moria Declaration points out that one would like the industry’s operators to have ‘social conditions in line with other groups’ and that one would like to give ‘welfare schemes a special priority through proposals for better replacement schemes and the provision of holidays and leisure opportunities’. In this context, social conditions mean first and foremost opportunities for holidays and leisure time, disease and pension safety. Good welfare schemes are of major importance for agriculture, not least for recruitment. In this year's agreement, the rates of relief in the case of disease were increased by approx. 20 pst. and on holiday and leisure time with 3 pst. This is also an important step in the right direction, but these arrangements must continue to be strengthened in the years to come. The Soria Moria Declaration also points out that one will ‘ensure an agricultural holding with a varied structure of use across the country. The structural profile must be strengthened’. In this context, there is a clear commitment that one will work for continued diversity in industry and for strengthening family farming. It is important to counter further the division of agriculture between so-called niche production and volume production. This also implies that more attention needs to be paid to the varied agricultural use structure when designing the use of instruments. Grant schemes must have a structural profile that allows traditional farm operations for both small and large uses. It is also necessary to have legislation which clearly limits the possibility of extending production towards industrialised agriculture. This underlines the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in its opinion, and I fully agree with that. Restrictions on the possibility of co-farming in milk production must be understood and defended in this context. As regards the structural discussion, I think it is important to stress that the parties to the final protocol agreed on a review of structural developments. I assume that this work will be prioritised so that the review, analysis and evaluation can be made as important premises for next year's agricultural negotiations. In general, it is important to stress that the change in agricultural policy started is followed up throughout the enlargement period, so that both the level of ambition and the promises contained in the government statement are fulfilled over time. Finally, I would like to stress the majority comment of the government parties and the Christian People's Party on the importance of the negotiating institute and the importance of cooperation between the state and the industry's organisations. This cooperation increases the scope for achieving the objectives of agricultural policy. In relation to the views of the Right and the Progressive Party on this issue, it is important to stress the clear position of the majority that the negotiating system must be maintained, so that agricultural organisations can be given real responsibility and influence over developments in industry, both in terms of income and other factors relevant to the operators of the industry and not least in terms of employment and residence throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1749	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1752	I asked the case rapporteur a question about a comment in the setting that I did not get a very good answer to. This is about making use of all the resources that the farm has. The centre party is a party where ownership – traditionally – has been very strong, and the exploitation of farm resources is very closely linked to ownership. Unfortunately, many public regulations restrict the ownership of each individual user and prevent him from exploiting the resource base of the farm. It may be that he wants to disburse some plots to cabins in order to raise capital for farm operations, or it may be that he wants to use other resources on which government regulations restrict. Is it so to understand that the Centre Party is in favour of a limited ownership when they do not want to abolish these regulations?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1759	It's true that we're busy exploiting all the resources on the farm. It is important for the level of income of farmers, it is important for the further development of farms, and it is not least important for the positive development of farms. But it is also true that sometimes it is necessary to weigh autonomous management of farm resources up to the long-term purpose of the operation of the farm. Selling land could mean that in the long term, a reduction in the possibility of further developing a good industry on the farm would reduce the potential for positive and long-term development, reduce the possibility for the next generation to take over and operate in a sensible way. So dissociating land to increase income can be cutting yourself in the foot – one doesn't achieve much. We don't see it as a problem with ownership that you have a long-term relationship with the use of farm resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1764	Even if the number of farmers goes down, and has been doing so for many years, a good deal of young people want to bet on agriculture and agriculture for years to come, but they don't want to have the same ratio as their ancestors. They demand a leisure time, they require an organisation of the use that allows them to be able to get both a leisure time and a reasonable income. Then we will have to re-examine the forms of organisation that are co-operative and that have been a major theme in the West for a long time. We need to understand the limitations that exist when it comes to co-operation, says the representative Breck. It is possible that the Centre Party understands this, but it is very difficult to get the small gardeners and farmers who drive them to understand that they are not going to do this. The alternative is not that they continue as grandparents and parents did, but simply a closure. How does the Center Party view this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1769	The issue of structural development has been one of the main themes of the agricultural negotiations that have been carried out, and of course the co-operation issue is a bit of that issue. Further consideration shall be given to the development of a positive industry structure. Organisations of the industry shall be involved. I hope it will give us good signals before the next agricultural settlement. With regard to co-operation and size, it will always be such that when a chooser has any limitations, it causes problems. Agricultural organisations have chosen to limit the number of uses with co-operation and the distance between uses. I think that's right, although this causes problems for some people who want to merge, as the representative Løvik mentions in connection with the situation in the Ørsta municipality. It is important that we look at the border problem, but at the same time we must ensure that we still have co-operation that does not lead to industrialised agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1778	Now the representative defends co-operation and the roof for it, and I want to go back to what Petter Løvik was inside. After the agricultural negotiations of the year, the ceiling was kept to a minimum. There are farmers who have applied for a derogation, who have said that if they don't get a scheme, they don't see anything else than putting down. And there are not some farmers, there are quite a number of farmers both in Ørskog municipality and in Ørsta municipality, just what I know, and there are more in other places. How can they not be exempted, but they have to do as they say in today's Sunnmutter post: now they're laying down. Is it interesting for the Centre Party and for agriculture that they do not receive co-operation and dispensation so that they can take six or seven into the co-operation so that they can continue their operations and harvest animals and allowances in the countryside? Now the quotas and the animals disappear out of the village.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1787	The co-operation problem is important to continue working with, as I pointed out in my previous reply to the reply. As regards the situation in those municipalities, it is similar elsewhere. But it's because we have to set limits on how big the co-operation should be. We do not want to further develop an industrialised agriculture, and we do not want us to drive structural development so that one takes away too many uses from the surrounding countryside. That's the boundary we have to go, and that you get into the areas that the representative made the denominator.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1794	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1798	On the left, agriculture is expected to have an important place in Norway in the future as well. The left wants a living and varied agriculture. There are many reasons why we mean it: We need to make sure that we have access to food – and safe food. We want to maintain the bus in the districts. We want to maintain the agricultural culture and the cultural landscape that our ancestors have cleared stone by stone, and that is so immeasurably important for the well-being of fortified and tourists who want to see sea, mountains and water. In addition, these are important jobs in the districts. Left looks at the gardener as a self-employed businessman, but with a special management responsibility. Therefore, we are quite clear that we need to have government transfers to gardeners, but we are also clear that agriculture needs to be modernised in order to have a chance to survive in the future. Agriculture must also be given less earmarks, fewer forms, fewer and simpler directionlines. The fundamentality must be there to create products and production methods that have future and economy in themselves. In addition to producing food and wood, we see it as natural that in the future the gardener will have a number of new and untraditional tasks, such as: as a small-scale power producer, a biofuel producer, a cultural landscape protector – also beyond its own area – and not least a provider of care and experiences. The Progress Party representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr says that the Left, Right and Progress Party largely share the view of agricultural policy. This option will distance the left very much from it. The left does not believe, in stark contrast to the Progress Party, that all gardening can do itself if only the farmer is good enough, productive enough and inventive enough. I think that the progress party leader in Stranda would laugh at the introduction of progress party policy and not get the support of the sheep and goats who would keep the cultural landscape up in Geiranger. We recognize that there must be transfers from the state of approximately the same size as we have today, if we are to maintain use. But we want back arrangements that are more neutral in production than they are today. We want agricultural negotiations as a pure-bred income agreement between the state and the gardener. All other concessions and arrangements should be transferred to ordinary posts on the State budget, or the municipal budget, which will be settled after open discussions in elected bodies and not after negotiations in closed rooms. But we see no reason why agriculture should be regulated so strongly that there is no room for local adaptations, and we think it is very strange that there should be geographical boundaries for co-operations, and even more strange that there should be a roof on how many gardeners can go together about a co-operation, as long as they stick to the roof of the number of dairy eggs. I would like to refer to an example in Bondal in Ørsta where 13 gardeners want to join together in two collaborations of six and seven participants, and now they have been denied the exemption request. They were not to produce more than 500,000 liters per. co-operation. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get That's at least the opposite of what's meant by these rules. I have several times taken up the bet on organic farming with the councils. I am therefore pleased that the greens for organic farming are being increased by approx. Twenty-five million. kr in 2007 within the framework of the agricultural agreement. It's a big challenge that these funds are spent as efficiently as possible. So to the general agricultural policy that this negotiating result says something about. From the Red-Green parties, especially from the Centre Party, there was a strong and heated attack on agricultural policy that the Bondevik II government led, both when it rolled the transfers and the WTO negotiations. This culminated in the election campaign, and it created a huge expectation among the peasants that a new government would make strong increases in transfers. From this I understand that the Farmers' and Small User's team said no to the agreement that the Government and the Farmers' Association have agreed on. The proposal in the 2006-2007 agricultural agreement contains a number of key elements of the agricultural policy of the Bondevik II Government. The agreement, as we see it, does not involve any changes in the framework, design or structure of the course. We cannot therefore understand that there is an attempt to provoke a conflict between the previous government parties and the current government parties when it comes to the agricultural agreement. We see that there hasn't been that much difference. The government has now, I believe, realized that it is impossible to hold onto the past. It is important that this policy continues. And as far as I can understand, that's what's going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1819	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1822	We have heard earlier today that the Progress Party and the Right are actually in favour of concluding the negotiations between free parties in agriculture. I noticed that the Left’s representative now took a step along the same path by calling for a so-called ‘clean-grown income agreement’ between farmers and the state, while other schemes affecting the income and income capacity of farmers are to be decided in this room. I must almost ask the representative Gerde to elaborate on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1829	I would like to elaborate on that, because, as the agricultural agreement is today, it contains a lot more than what goes to the gardener's income. Some of this was transferred to other budgets of the previous government. I think we have to finish it. In the agricultural agreement, one has to have the pure income and the price of the goods, not as for example. has to do with building development. The left wants an agricultural agreement, agricultural negotiations, but the other thing we want to have in the elected bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1836	Left has written in its comments: ‘Agriculture must be given less ear marking, fewer forms, fewer and simpler directions.’ In addition, it must be ‘a full review of legislation and legislation with a view to a strong modernisation’. Left Lars Sponheim was Minister of Agriculture until last autumn. Why didn't Left do anything about this when they sat in the corridors of power and had the opportunity to do any of that representative's requests? Are the words'strong modernisation' a desire for more liberalisation and faith in the free play of the market?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1850	The representative may not have followed closely. If he had followed the agricultural policy pursued by the previous government, he would have discovered just what I pointed to in my previous answer, that much was transferred outside the agricultural negotiations to open elected bodies. It's a modernisation. It is also a modernisation that one has given gardeners a different income base by, for example, to facilitate green care, bio-fuel investment and also the clearing of the cultural landscape.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1855	I have also noticed Left's remark that you want to have a clean income agreement between farmers and the state. There is no specific mention of the structural development picture, but there is talk of any other grant and scheme that should be transferred to ordinary items in the government budget or in the municipal budget, if I have understood the representative correctly. I perceive that in all material respects the subsidies and schemes that go to agriculture are directly related to the incomes of the various farmers. I'd like to get a little deeper into what you're thinking about. Is it only the rural development funds, or is there any subsidy for operations, grants for cultural landscapes and other things? In that case, I find it difficult to distinguish between income and other items.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1862	As I said earlier, we want to take away from the agricultural negotiations what is not directly related to the farmer's incomes. Building development funds were before, and are partly today, inside the agricultural negotiations. We think it's on other budgets, so there'll be more room for others to interact with the building development funds. There are also other things that do not directly affect the income of the farmer and the price of groceries, which we do not mean to be included in the agricultural agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1867	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1870	The agricultural agreement that is being discussed tonight is a good agreement for agriculture. It's the best in very many years. It provides agriculture with a necessary level of income and follows up point by point with measures to achieve the objectives of the majority government described for agricultural policy in our political platform, the Soria Moria declaration. The agreement strengthens the regional and structural profile. It prioritises farmers who draw a substantial part of the income from the farm. It improves access to capital by increasing investment vehicles. It strengthens the environmental profile. It significantly strengthens livestock grazing measures. It improves welfare systems. It strengthens the organic farmer strongly and facilitates the development of nutrition. – All this, while ensuring value chain perspectives and taking into account the competitiveness of industry. That is good agricultural policy. It builds on the objectives we have for agricultural policy in Norway, and at the same time addresses some of the shortcomings of the co-operation regime. Despite a number of critical comments and proposals for alternative decisions, including rejecting the entire agreement, the opposition claims that the agreement does not represent a change of course, either within the framework, design or structure. It is true that this year’s agreement does not represent a revolution – it is unwise to revolutionise framework conditions for business-driven people with a generation perspective – but there is a clear change in course of action. During the Bondevik II administration, the target prices were increased, while the transfers were cut, i.e. in the 5th percentiles of GDP we use to have an active agriculture all over the country. The Bondevik II Government redistributed production subsidies from the smallest to the largest. This agreement does the opposite. The Bondevik II government implemented a number of structural measures. This agreement changes the course in a responsible manner. The Bondevik II administration provided the niches and the largest. This agreement also takes responsibility for all those in between, most of whom are – the backbone of rural agriculture. The Bondevik II government did not raise the level of revenue in its first year of operation — on the contrary. They just tried their last election year. Active agriculture throughout the country is subject to the assumption that farming is sufficiently profitable in a diversity of productions and use sizes. With increasing international competition, we need to see that measures above the budget are likely to become increasingly important to achieve this objective. The extension of the agricultural deduction is a good move, both because tax measures are not affected by the WTO Agreement and because it makes businesses trying to live on agriculture, in a good way, both with full deduction from the bottom and increased percentage reductions thereafter. At the same time, the funds in the agricultural agreement must also stimulate development and use all farm resources and more markets. Therefore, green tourism, forest and bioenergy and organic farming are important elements of the agreement. The same is true of the increase in investment vehicles. Many are now in an investment phase. Investment grants reduce important bottlenecks and contribute to a more even distribution of income over the generation ranges. I'm open, as several denominators in the setting, to further strengthen the investment instruments. Several have pointed out that the agreement uses the Budgetary Review forecast for a reduction in labour consumption of about 4 pst. in the construction of the framework. The parties have a long tradition of using the budget title. It's also been done this year. The parties have made estimates of developments in operating costs, capital costs, reduced labour consumption and revenue increases. In addition, a level increase and a share of the productivity gain of 270 million have been recorded. kr. I think the most important thing that politicians can do to slow down structural development is to provide an economic basis that makes it interesting to operate on different scales. We're increasing the structural subsidies by 100 million. kr. We put a ceiling on investment aid on companies, so that the funds are allocated to more. And we make sure that more of the milk quotas can be distributed among many. Until next year, the parties have agreed to review structural issues and the marketing of milk quotas. For me and the Government, grazing and cultural landscapes are a very central part of a good agricultural policy that will help legitimize agriculture in the future. That's why we have a conscious strategy, where getting more animals to graze is an important measure. Together with a commitment to bioenergy, it will appear in the cultural landscape that we have active agriculture across the country. It is important in interaction with travel life, and it is important to ensure a broad disintegration of an agricultural sector that provides living areas, safe food and a well-kept landscape. This agricultural agreement contributes well to the further development of this agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1889	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1893	As I see it, this council has placed the list very high for its work in the Ministry of Agriculture. He has said that any use that is abandoned is a personal defeat for him. And then the question is, because the number of uses will continue to go down: where does the limit go, how many uses can the council accept are closed, before he takes his hat and goes – and travels home to Telemark?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1898	This council is probably a founder of legation, and it's nice to see the developments that can happen in the countryside, and in and around the country. I like it when a carpenter company makes it hover and go. I like it when Unggutter starts a car company and manages to get it going. And I think it's negative when the opposite happens; when people for different reasons are unable to develop the industry say -- there might be good reasons for that. Similarly, farm use is an opportunity for me to develop. There is an opportunity to develop business activities, either by producing meat, milk, cereals and eggs or by producing bioenergy, green care services or other services related to agriculture. Developing a farm is positive, that's what we're trying to achieve. That means that a farm that's being closed down is an opportunity that disappears for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1910	The council just said that he was the founder of nature, and I thought that was a very good property. But what about all the farmers who are trying to reorganize the operation in order to obtain a better income and a reasonable leisure time, through joint ventures? I asked a few weeks ago questions about this matter to the Council of State, and I got the answer that he could not answer because the matter was part of the agricultural negotiations. Now the agricultural negotiations in Stortinget are, and I hope the Council of State will be able to say a little about this. It has been said here earlier this evening by the representative of the SV, in response to a reply from me, that this will be considered. However, little help is given to those who are currently being depreciated, pending these assessments. Fear of industrial agriculture and less use has been emerging in two of my previous responses, but fear of future closure when the option is closed today is probably a bad strategy for Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1917	I think the representative Breck answered the same question for a short time. My starting point for success in agricultural policy is that we have more objectives for our policy. It means cultural landscapes, it means living settlements, it means safe food. If we're going to do that, we also have to have a different usage structure. Then we have to have some limits to the policy. We need to set some limits that allow us to adapt agriculture, see the needs of the different parts of the country. Agriculture in Norway must then also have a small scale profile. That is what is a natural agricultural policy in Norway. Then we must also be able to have limitations that make it possible to have in practice a profile that is adapted to that objective. I think it's forward-looking to have this varied profile, it varied the size of the uses, and that it's what over time brings results in relation to cultural landscapes, living villages and safe food.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1924	I have two questions for the Council of State. The first is that there has been a great deal of change in farming, that is, family farming. The emphasis is on family use. But it's not a very straightforward procedure, so a little definition of it could be a good thing. The second question is related to niche production and volume production, just back to St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000, as Kåre Gjønnes suggested, multifunctional agriculture has been stressed – several legs to stand on, etc. It has never been about either – or, but both – and – both niche and volume to get a varied usage structure. My question to the Council of State is: will he confirm that he will continue with this line, that there will be no breach of that line?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1933	It is well known that the government that represented Sørfonn's party was part of, focused on niche on one side and volume on the other. It is a legitimate position to want to develop agriculture in a two-part strategy. I believe that with such an approach, something quite essential is missing, and it concerns all those who are in the middle, what is actually traditional agriculture in Norway, which is the backbone of rural agriculture, and which I think is agriculture that is over time the forward-looking agriculture in Norway. I believe that in the last growing-up period there was too little effort on what is in the middle: traditional Norwegian agriculture, and I want to bet more on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1938	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1941	The agricultural agreement of the year is, in my opinion, so absolutely acceptable to agriculture. Yes, one of the negotiating parties even stated that the state's offer, which was condemned by some people north and down, would have been a right offer if it had come from the Bondevik government. And after the agreement has been concluded, it has been nice to get positive feedback on it from different parts of the country. Both requirements and offers were significantly higher than last year’s level, and the Workers’ Party is pleased that this year’s agreement is perceived as a shift in agricultural policy. It's a good start for a new course. But the expectations were serious, and there is reason to regret the failure to reach an agreement with both agricultural organisations. But we have to respect that the Small User Team did not find a way to sign. So, in my view, there is a reason to note that the Right joins with the Advance Party in rejecting the agreement and will also conclude the agricultural agreement as the negotiating institute in order to determine the incomes of agriculture. I find that interesting – and regrettable – given that at least I did not hear such signals from the Right in connection with the treatment of the contract last year. I think most people realize that there will be considerable uncertainty and unfortunate consequences to throw on this system in a hand turn. Therefore, the Workers' Party will signal that, together with the other government parties, and with the parties, we will further develop and modernise the negotiating system. It is such that, in addition to structuring production and ensuring sound income for farmers, the agricultural agreement also pursues important social objectives with cultural landscapes and the basis for the development of a modern, original tourism product. At least as important is securing our food businesses, which are a major and important part of our industry, good raw materials for their production. The Progress Party has a comprehensive comment on the fact that farmers are to be caught in a network of agricultural bureaucrats that prevents them from exploiting the possibilities of work and income on their individual uses. They shall be trapped in such a way that the Party has formulated a political slogan – «release the farmers free». With respect to reporting, President -- I'm not sure what it's allowed to say from this pulpit -- it's possible I'm simple, but I see this as the purest hesitation. As a farmer and rapporteur for the past 25 years, I have had extensive cooperation with the agricultural bureaucracy in my own municipality, in my own region and in my own part of the country. I see this environment as very service-oriented, it is useful interlocutors for the individual farmer, and they are able to provide competent advice. I perceive, and I am absolutely sure that the farmers, at least in my part of the country, believe that the local agricultural administration is their foremost interlocutors, supporters and cheerleaders. The progressive part of the myth of the need to release the farmer from a comprehensive regulation and regime is, in my opinion, totally wrong. Our task now is to set a framework, so that we ensure farmers, in all parts of the country and with different usage structures, viable incomes. I believe that we must stop trying to make the farmer poor. It's a misguided strategy. The majority of farmers are skilled professionals and farm managers who put farming as an exciting and challenging industry. There are many of us today who are forward-looking and bold. We must wish them luck.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1958	The representative Haugen himself suggested that ‘doubt’ is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1961	After hearing the last article and a good part of the posts here today, I feel sorry for the Norwegian farmer. Many of the inlays are characterized by the fact that you want to stick your head even further into the sand. For it is a fact that from 1989 until now the number of agricultural holdings is halved, from 100 000 to 50 000. I don't think there's another industry that's been exposed to this kind of fury, and it does tell me everything about the framework conditions the industry has, or – perhaps in a slightly different way – the coercive economy has on it. And then you can ask the question, what's the cause, and what's happening in the industry? There is simply a lack of control over own property and over your own workplace. For as the socialists see it, a farmer is a public employee, and that is a good ideology for the socialists. Because do farmers have the opportunity to become self-employed? They don't. They have no possibility of freedom, of meeting reality, of meeting a everyday life of deregulation, of red tape, and not least of being able to deal with predatory policies themselves. So I'm sure there's a lot of people who want to ask the question, what is reality? Some people are trying to present the proposals of the Progress Party as a terrible reality. For the socialists here in the Chamber, there is actually a reality that is worse, and it's called the WTO. To equip the Norwegian farmer, to meet the future, which is the WTO, he must have the opportunity. Among other things, we have the closure of the fisheries agreement within the fisheries policy. Norwegian fishing industry has gained freedom and is now on its own feet – without subsidies. At the same time, Norwegian fishing industry is able to meet international competition. That Norwegian farmers should not have that opportunity, I am amazed, but it is a political majority, together with the peasant organisations, who do not want to give the Norwegian farmer this opportunity. When I said it was good with the fishing industry, I forgot to add that the government is running a fisheries policy that makes the Barents Sea plundered by other nations. Then there are many who claim that the Progress Party will remove Norwegian farmers. No, we have nothing against the self-employed who are engaged in food production. We want to give them the opportunity and facilitate the situation. We do not want to remove Norwegian farmers. We want to remove the coercive and agricultural policies that the majority have stepped down their shoulders. We want to remove the system. We're against the old-fashioned and immature system that you've had since the war. We will meet the future of Norwegian farmers with a new system, where they will have the freedom, where they will have the opportunity, where they will have the opportunity to have their own land, and ensure that they will be able to operate as they please. I don't think they're the ones sitting in this room who can decide how Norwegian farmers will be doing in the future. I think they're doing well on their own, and it actually also shows more research reports that they have opportunities. Then I am going to make a confession at the end of the day, and it is quite simply: we have not been able to implement our agricultural policy. We have debated and voted in a subsidiary way for some budget proposals in the past, but we have not had any impact on agricultural policy. So the number of farmers has been reduced over the last 15 years, and it's becoming more and more common. Isn't it time for the majority to begin to realize that the policies they've been running are ripping crazy? If we are to have a chance to survive in rural areas, if we are to have a chance to survive, we need a new and improved policy. But unfortunately I don't believe that it's going to happen until 2009, and then it's been a big choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e1977	At Holm Gård in Re municipality in Vestfold the farmer Ivar Sørby goes around with plans to establish a biogas plant. The installation is based on circuit tension. The basis for biogas production is manure from the farm and processed food waste. Biogas provides energy in terms of power and heat. The by-product of the installation is fertilisers processed and thus increasing in value. Biogas production will also result in a significant reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from this farm. The investment costs are estimated at 3 million. kr. The energy production from the installation will meet the annual energy demand of approx. 25 dwellings. The profitability of the project depends on the renewable energy framework conditions. It is essential that authorities support such projects. Bioenergy is a field of activity in agriculture. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has its own bioenergy programme, which has now run over three years. The interest in project funding is increasing and the target population is precisely soil and forest users. The majority also point to the possibilities of bioenergy production. When I mention this, it is of course because Norwegian agriculture, as a result of the WTO negotiations, is likely to meet significant conversion requirements in the coming years. We have to assume that all forms of export support will be removed by the end of 2013 and that customs duties will be substantially reduced in important areas of production. As a result, import protection is also reduced. The challenge for Norwegian agriculture will be to identify new and profitable production areas that can keep Norwegian countryside alive, so that the cultural landscape can be maintained. Then we also need to find 'green support schemes', which are the exception of the agricultural regime that is being established under the WTO. The grazing aid is in itself a good example of this. Paradoxically, the EU may become one of Norwegian agriculture’s most important federations in such a context. The EU has already introduced new support schemes that meet the requirements of what can be called ‘green box’ in the WTO. I am quite sure, and it is also an important element of the agricultural agreement, that Norwegian agricultural capacity to produce ‘clean and safe food’ is one of the main advantages we have. Now it should be admitted that our self-image in this area is temporarily weakened by the so-called E. coli scandal. All aspects of that particular case should be highlighted as known, including the handling of the case by the Food Safety Authority. However, I would ask the Minister of Agriculture to pay particular attention to the reorganization of food supervision and the privatisation of the laboratory activities carried out. It may have weakened our food security. And there are things that indicate that the conversion of the control activities may have led to more cumbersome control, not least in the production companies. Too often when dealing with agricultural issues, we forget the interdependence between the farmer and industry. The food industry employs a total of 50 000 people around the country. If any of these were to fall on the idea of voting the Advance Party in a future election, at least it is not the self-interest that drives them. In addition to the change in the course of Norwegian agricultural policy, it is another feature in the examination of the year's agricultural agreement that calls for interest, namely that the Progress Party, and in fact also the Right on a slightly different basis, attacks the negotiating institute itself. They don't want negotiations. Instead, they will leave everything to an internationally open market. Then we know how it goes: when the breeds of the Norwegian countryside. Then the cultural landscape grows again. Then those who work in the food industry will lose their jobs. Then my good friend Åge Hovengen gets right when he from this pulpit in his time feared that it would be so far between the farms in the countryside that the farmers had to stick with ‘hainkat’ themselves. Not even cats will be able to survive the agricultural policy of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2000	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2003	Active agriculture in all parts of the country is an important tool for maintaining the main features of today’s patterns of housing and also a living cultural landscape. This means that we need to facilitate a varied usage structure. If we are to achieve this, we must have a robust agriculture. The Christian People's Party believes that we need both volume production and niche production, and that these must not be set against each other. In terms of volume production, it is necessary to define differences in the different parts of the country, and I therefore see no contrast between these concepts and what the Council of State in its article calls the ‘backbone’ of agriculture. In my county, Eastfold, the landscape is well equipped to grow grain. And we're going to keep doing that. But if we are to achieve this, it is important to ensure the stable and predictable framework conditions that allow for the same development of income as for others. That the government is using tax incentives as the main lever to increase income, yes, it's quite surprising with this government. But for me, it must also be allowed to ask, how many farmers will get full counting on the tax bill? I assume that the bill for this tax will not be charged to the municipalities, but that the state will compensate for this at a given time. A flat and lush state like Eastfold is giving rise to some environmental challenges – I think here of runoff. To bet on trap ponds is then of great importance. It is therefore with great disappointment that I record that no derogation is being made in this year's agricultural settlement in relation to the SMIL regulation as regards the financing of traps in watercourses with special challenges. The Council of State stated in its statement that this agreement ‘strengthens the environmental profile’. Yes, but an important measure for agriculture in my part of the country unfortunately did not reach this environmental strength. If we are to be able to operate with grain production for the benefit of the country, we need some arrangements that will take care of this in relation to the landscape we are talking about. I have to say it is disappointing to notice that it was the Government that did not see the need for such a change, not the agricultural industry. In the end, I am pleased with the effort that comes to bet on bioenergy. This is good agricultural policy, it is good energy policy, it is good environmental policy – and then it is like a cheek egg.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2014	We can see from the wording that the Right agrees with the Progress Party in removing the agricultural agreement. They do this by voting against this year's agreement on the grounds that the party is in principle against the agreement. The agricultural agreement was adopted by the Stortinget in 1950 and is slightly more than an economic agreement. It is also, to the most extent, a social agreement. Exactly two years ago today, Stortinget decided to terminate the 40-year-old main agreement for the fishing industry. This too was to a large extent a social agreement. This was done with the voices of the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The Government of Bondevik II brought this proposal as lightning from the sky, and it was added to the setting on a completely different matter. The representatives of the fishing industry were completely unprepared for this and were not given the opportunity to make their counter-arguments. This caused a very strong reaction in the fishing industry, and in retrospect it has also been shown how wrong this decision was. I have noticed that neither the Right Party nor the Advance Party have had the effect of this. Today, the Right Party and the Advance Party are trying to repeat this by removing the agricultural agreement. This time, too, the proposal is being presented without any prior contact with the industry concerned. Once again, these two right parties show their true face. Fortunately, this time we have a different majority on the Stortinget, the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. It is also gratifying that the Christian People's Party and the Left now, unlike when the fisheries agreement was wrecked, are united with the red-green parties. The agricultural agreement is, as I said, something far more than an economic agreement. It is also, to the greatest extent, a social agreement, in which a very important industry negotiates with the State on how to continue the industry and how to safeguard the interests of society through such an agreement. The right-hand batches, in a known style, will also leave this to the market. This does not give agriculture all over the country, nor does it create settlements in the countryside. Actually, we still have that here to land, no matter what you say about it. The voters last harvested a new majority and a new government. That is why today, while the fisheries agreement had to give way two years ago, we are hiding the agricultural agreement under a different majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2031	Agriculture and the agri-food industry are among the most important sectors of Norwegian business in terms of both employment and value added – 100 000 annual works and 107 billion DKK in turnover. The measures and transfers we adopt today through the agricultural agreement benefit the entire value chain. Agricultural cooperation is the main player in the food industry with its SEK 54 billion in turnover, 50 000 members and 18 500 employees. The implementation of the agricultural agreement depends on this cooperative among farmers. This is also included in the Government’s proposal, where, having regard to the Soria Moria Agreement, it states that one will continue the market organisation and ensure the role of cooperative as market regulator. It's quite right, as it's called in the proposition of mass destruction, that it's ‘is a relationship of interdependence between primary production and the food industry. Primary production depends on a competitive food industry’. The Norwegian food market is not as protected as it is often claimed. Processed food takes on greater market shares, and these have limited protection against imports. Bakery products are an example of important imports, and for cheese imports have increased by 21 pst. from 2004 to 2005. Arla and Tulip have become common brands in Norwegian store shelves. «In order to maintain a competitive food industry, provision must be made to ensure a competitive environment for industry», states the Government. [[...]] I'm glad this is so clearly defined, but ask me if all the authorities have the same strategy. For example, the Competition Authority has: a clear tendency to ignore the large Nordic and international food companies, which are positioned in the Norwegian food market, when they state that there is little competition in the Norwegian food industry. In addition, they appear to have an antipathy to cooperative solutions. In the future, if we are to ensure that Norwegian food producers have a food industry that prefers Norwegian raw materials and helps to ensure the efficient marketing of Norwegian food, it is very important that the Government maintains the positive signals to ensure the interoperability of the food industry even when the organisation of competitive conditions is on the agenda. Cooperation is a common organisation of the food industry in large parts of the world, as well as in other areas of activity. It is time we put in place cooperative legislation also in Norway that provides a safe framework for this form of organisation. I hope the government will make sure to put this on the agenda as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2049	The agricultural settlement is in port, and we're finally going to knock it through in this room tonight. During this year's agricultural settlement, Norwegian Farmers and Small Farmers' Team broke the negotiations for 12 hours. The main reason for the breach was in the State's offer document, which stated that the various measures implemented by the previous government should be continued. Furthermore, there was a lack of structural profile on the proposals made by the State in its offer. This applies primarily to the effect of the extended agricultural deduction, which amounted to about 75 pst. of the framework of the State's offers. The original framework was increased by 270 million during the negotiations. NOK 850 million. kr, where half of the tax is reduced – something put at the bottom and something at the top. The agreement of the year resulted in a gross increase in income per year. annual work of approx. NOK 14 000. After deduction of increased operating costs, which amount to approximately NOK 10 000 per year. annual work, there will be a net increase in income of approx. NOK 4000 per year. annual work. Norwegian farmers do not get the income development that comparable groups get, but much less. Now some people would say that there are many ways to figure out – and so is – but it's established that this year's settlement was not what you called the highest hurrah for out in the village, either north or south, on May 17. So what will future show? I think the government's remarks add some clear leads that can be very important for future agricultural settlements. I think the government parties will do some important steps during the autumn and winter that will help to provide some clear guidance on how the road ahead is going to be, so that in one year's time we can adopt an agricultural agreement that will give new optimism from the landing to the landing. The changes I hope will go on structure and arrangements, that they will go on some clear priorities, not least in a new policy direction, and that it will say something about what economic premises will be used for future settlements. I have good faith that the Government will take the steps that will be necessary to bring about new optimism in agriculture and the countryside. There are three very important instruments for creating optimism, housing and value creation in the countryside. One is a differentiated employer’s fee, which the government has fought in place from 1 January 2007, and then it is the agricultural agreement, which provides Norwegian farmers with income opportunities, and in addition it is to bet on providing municipalities with a real economic foundation, so that we can get the welfare services that people want. We've got a good start. This government delivers the goods people need. Just give us a little more time, and Norway is really going to be the positive different country that others will see as the good example. It's a way to go, and we're going to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2068	This agricultural agreement marks the beginning of a price change, if we are to believe the case rapporteur and what is in the comments. And that's what's needed, because we're experiencing an agricultural operation that has a very big take-off. It is a major centralisation of the production of the most fertile areas. We experience less grazing, we experience regrowth of the land. In my municipality, cattle are now being fed throughout the year. This means that the areas where you can't get there with a three-meter mower grow again and are not used. Thus, we also experience a way of using and a structure of use that I do not believe increases the legitimacy of Norwegian agriculture. We are facing major challenges for the important food industry. We experience that the eco-production of food is stagnating. In addition, the challenges of agriculture will meet under the WTO Agreement. There is a lot of talk about reform and innovation, and I want us to have an ambition in this period to think about new things in agriculture so that we can meet these challenges. That means we're probably going to have to make some choices. Firstly, what are the main objectives of Norwegian agriculture? Is that cheap food? Is it district agriculture? Is it in settlement? Is it cultural landscapes? Is it environment? What parts of Norwegian agricultural policy is it particularly important to protect? And last, but not least, can we do anything different and still achieve the things we want? It may be that the objectives we have set have been so well known, and the use of instruments we have is so widespread that we are unable to achieve the objectives we need to define as the most central ones in Norwegian agricultural policy and production. There are countries that have made such choices before us. I would like to point out Switzerland, and of course it would be a political opinion whether that country has succeeded better than Norway. But it's a fact that if you point to the settlement in the districts, if you point to the structure, if you point to the environment and the cultural landscape, you have, in my opinion, come further. In my view, an open discussion on the objectives and ambitions of Norwegian agriculture will not only be an important and interesting debate, but it will also be crucial for the emergence of, for the knowledge and legitimacy of Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2081	Initially, I would like to say that this has been a good debate. However, there is little self-criticism to trace from the current government parties in relation to the policies and instruments they have managed in agriculture, in relation to whether they have been as successful as they want to believe. Several speakers have said that the Progress Party does not want to have food production based on food security and local traditions and the natural basis. The Progress Party has chosen not to go into any of the comments that the majority have, because we have our own comments that are good and that explain our policy well. The representative, Gunn Berit Gerit from the Left, would have asked that there be a similarity between the agricultural policy of the Progress Party and the Left. Then I have to quote from one of the left comments in the setting: ‘If we are to be closed, the modernisation of Norwegian agriculture must continue. This member sees the gardener as a self-employed person with special administrative responsibilities. Therefore, it is important that the entrepreneurial spirit is given an important place in agriculture. The resource base of rural areas needs to be used more widely for the development of economic activity and also for the construction of people with no direct connection to primary industries. There must be more shortages in agriculture. Local authorities need to have better access to localisation and to see agricultural policy in conjunction with other industrial policies. Agriculture must be given less earmarks, fewer forms, fewer and simpler directions.’ This is like music in my ears. The progress party could have joined a lot in the Left's comments, but because there was agreement in the Committee that these comments should be on their own, we did not. But if the Left continues this criticism of the agricultural policy of the Progress Party, we will consider doing so in a later year. In addition, the Left and the Advance Party very much agree on the co-operation problem. When it comes to the co-operation problem, I think the Council of State gave poor answers. There has been a lot of criticism both against the Council of State and against the League of Nations for their attitude to this, and it might be interesting to hear if the Council of State believes that previous increases in the number of participants and the number of litres have been unfortunate. In addition, the question is whether we can expect a reversal of the framework conditions that the cooperative has, as the Bondelag wants. Collaborations contribute to cooperation, it contributes to optimism, and it contributes to giving young farmers who want to bet, an opportunity to do so in cooperation with other young farmers who also want to bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2099	Annually, 2000 to 3000 farms are being reduced. 2 000–3 000 jobs disappear. Since 2000, the fully cultivated agricultural area has been reduced by 170 000 deches. Food safety is weakened. The importance of agriculture, bearing basic cultural values, is reduced as winding-up takes place. Similarly, the importance of agricultural holdings as centres of innovation and budding in districts is weakened. Agriculture is approaching a critical lower border in many areas. From the fisheries management we know that when a population falls below a minimum quantity, it will almost independently of what measures are put in place, diluted and disappeared. The agricultural agreement of the year will not reverse this trend. The agreement will prevent further acceleration which would have resulted from the opposition's policy, but one will hardly achieve any marked deceleration in 2007. All the world’s repair and economic incentives for innovation, artificial mechanisms to keep the landscape open, and museum-based cultural conservation will not be able to compensate for the adverse effects of the deterioration of agriculture itself. There is therefore no good agreement for the purposes of which agriculture is to be filled. The distance between agricultural income and other income in industry and the labour market will increase in the coming years. The supplements provided are far from sufficient to ensure the same chronic development of income as other groups. The agreement does not give rise to the most threatened agricultural groups. The agreement also does not indicate that these groups can expect any forward-looking lifting. Tax policy is a key issue. It's right and necessary to pay attention to it. However, the arrangements of the agreement in this area are problematic and need to be discussed in more detail. In the landfill proposal, tax changes are assumed with a proceeds framework of 283 million. kr, corresponding to an income value of 425 million. kr. There is a need for evidence in the treatment of the 2007 State budget to show how this is achieved. The agreement concluded should be approved by the Stortinget. Something else would involve a serious mistrust of the Government and the negotiating system. However, the size has a sun-clear responsibility to premise for future settlement. Experience suggests that clear and unambiguous signals are required from the bulk storage. I choose to believe that the Government's ambitions for agriculture are at stake, and that the settlement of the year is a very cautious start to this. However, this presupposes that in the coming state budget and in future agricultural settlements, a significant more effective approach will be taken and will signal something else in the future than has been suggested. The development of income must make it interesting for young people to enter the industry. A public structural policy must be implemented to ensure normal, small and medium-sized family use. Privatisation of production rights in milk production must be reversed. Environmental policy must be strengthened. Such action is essential for the achievement of the objectives in an area that is crucial to the reputation of the Government in urban and rural areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2114	I would like to raise a point on which the Progress Party spent a lot of time in its main contribution, namely the relationship with the food industry. It was emphasised, and I fully agree, that this is one of Norway's most important industries. It says that you create values for 120 billion dollars. It's going to be 20 pst. of total industrial production in Norway. The progress party then draws the wrong conclusion, at my discretion, that just getting the raw material price down, this industry will be rocked for the future. I'll tell you why this is wrong. The representative himself was involved in his contribution when he said that this is a labour intensive industry. I would like to ask: are there examples of other labour-intensive industries that have survived substantially in Norway without any form of protection? I am relatively convinced that if you build up Norwegian agriculture and the production of food, while building up customs protection, you will not just build up agriculture. You also want to move the production of food out of the country, and you will therefore also move industrial jobs out of the country. That is what I think the Progress Party should take into account when they promote their policy of depopulation and deindustrialisation of Norway. I would also like to say that what the Progress Party and the Right, on the other hand, are systematically weakening the important food industry. It is underlined in writing in the setting through the comment where you want to divide Tine into two. It has been negatively expressed about important structural adaptations in the industry in order to meet future competition. Here, then, there is a major difference between Norway and the other countries in the immediate vicinity. If you look at Sweden and Denmark, the authorities that have built their agricultural and food industries. It has not only been a national success, but it has also been an international success. The same can be seen in Finland. I believe that the Progress Party has little or no credibility in industrial policy, when one chooses with open eyes to pursue a policy that is not only against the interests of industry but is also in direct contradiction to the sensible development of the food industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2123	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2127	The Progress Party is pursuing an active and offensive industrial policy. In the case of the food industry, the commodity price is part of this. The Progress Party is an industrial party, because we want to do what is right to keep the industry in Norway. If you talk to the food industry yourself, you point out this with the raw material price. It's something the industry itself wants. The representative Borten Moe mentioned in his first post that there would be less grazing. The question is also how the Senter Party, with its new predator policy, will be able to maintain this and connect it, because predator policy is a very important framework for agriculture. I could imagine that the Borten Moe answered this question, so we can see how to connect more grazing with predatory policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2134	The President believes that it could be an idea of the Storting to observe that it is starting to be quite late, and that we have several issues for treatment. The President does not say this for the sake of the magnificence representatives, but for the sake of democratic consideration of matters. It's not a good idea to deal with matters in the middle of the night.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2137	Since the clock is soon five to twelve both here in the hall and for Norwegian farmers, I will make one so far short post. I need to clarify a matter. This is true of the fisheries agreement – it should not be believed when dealing with agricultural settlements. The representative of Arnesen was involved in the fisheries agreement which was concluded two years ago. Then is my question to the government parties and perhaps to the committee leader: is the government going to reintroduce the fisheries agreement you had two years ago, as the representative Arnesen addressed when he criticized the previous government that removed it? I hope the committee leader can clarify that. Otherwise it has been interesting to listen to the debate, and not least the representative Tegen from SV and Troms. When the offer came from the state, there was no way of how hard he trampled into the spring floor in frustration over that offer. Then he wasn't here at the Stortinget. Then he was at home in the spring of Lyngen as an alternate. Now that he has entered the Stortinget, the pipe has received a different sound. It is interesting to note that the partisan also works for SV, and that they just get to stand on the field and protest against their own government. Lundtigen went very far in criticizing the Government in his post. I think it's interesting that the criticism has now moved into the hall, and that it's not just coming on the outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2148	I'll take the hint and be short. I'm not going to talk about the fisheries agreement either. It is gratifying if the Progress Party will join the agricultural policy of the Left. And it's nice that it's quoted from the comments to the left, and that the Progress Party can join those comments. I would also hope that the representative noticed that in the middle of the comment he reads, it says that the gardener has ‘special management responsibility’. So that's why the left side of the comment says very clearly that we think that the gardeners also have to have transfers from the state like the special administrators they are. The representative of Øyvind Korsberg pointed out that, according to the war, all governments have drawn on the peasants a coercion, and that this must be released from now on – they must do as they please. Then I wonder: Has the Progress Party asked the farmers what kind of sweat they want to wear? Or have they been going to take off the coercive lines, which have been a unified agricultural policy since the war, and thus raging the whole agricultural industry – and then asking what farmers want?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2157	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2878]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2174	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2183	When the Business Committee presents the reindeer management agreement today, all batches, with the exception of the Progress Party, are behind it. With the huge challenges facing this industry and many associated with it, it is important, in my view, that a broad majority in this Chamber conclude on the agreement negotiated. The clean-up agreement 2006/2007 provides for financial measures in the sewage treatment industry of a total of 92.5 million. kr, exclusive action against radioactivity. This is a similar appropriation as for the current agreement. The main objective of the clean-up agreement is to facilitate the increased movement of reindeer meat and to stimulate the industry to maximise slaughter and value creation within a given framework. In addition to the agreement itself, the Government and the majority propose an allocation of 3 million. in 2006 for action against radioactivity in reindeer management. Furthermore, a redeployment within the current budget is proposed to cover expenditure related to the prevention of Norwegian reindeer grazing districts from the use of winter pastures in Sweden. There is no reason to conceal that parts of the reindeer industry face major challenges. An overall committee also expressed its view on the last year's agreement by saying: ‘The Committee points out that the possibilities for a scale adjustment through financial incentives alone are now largely to be considered exhausted. In view of this, the Committee considers that the further follow-up to reduce the number of reindeer must be based on the provisions of the Reindeer Operations Act.’.» Today’s law is not an appropriate tool, either for industry or for the authorities, for the development of the industry to be on a more sustainable track. Therefore, reference is made to new legislation and it comes to the harvest. The new reindeer management law will be the main instrument for ensuring sound, tidy and healthy conditions in the industry. The state must take responsibility for the sustainable clean-up of areas, districts and sides. The new reindeer management law must ensure the legal basis for the effective and orderly implementation of the measures to be taken. I believe that with a robust and good lawmaking, the industry's practitioners themselves, in interaction with the authorities, will be much better able to develop the reindeer industry in a forward-looking and good way. But precisely because there is a need for cooperation and common positions in relation to these major challenges, I find it sad that the Progress Party chooses to jump off. Half a year before we get a new piece of legislation in place, they choose to reject the agreement and construct a new arrangement to deal with the financial transfers, if that's all there is to be. I think this is just a sad play that obviously doesn't contribute to anything positive in the future. However, I am pleased that there is a broad majority behind the position and recommendation I recommend with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2207	Initially, I would like to say that I think it is a pity that the case rapporteur chose to criticise the Progress Party in this matter. I really feel that there is a broad consensus in the Committee that Norwegian reindeer management policy needs to be changed. It was also a part of the rapporteur's post. The clean-up agreement is an example of how misguided a policy can be and of the inability of politicians to see this and make a change of course. I would like to ask the question: what has been the success of Norwegian reindeer management policy, when one sees the consequences of the lead reindeer management policy? There's overproduction, there's become an ecological disaster in parts of the reindeer area, and there's also questionable conditions in the field of animal protection. It's become too high a figure. There is uncertainty as to what the real figure is, and it is likely that the purity is significantly higher than the official figures show. In particular, the situation in West Finland is difficult. When you have these kinds of facts to describe a policy, it's time to turn around and find a new course out of what you've come into. A new policy is needed. It may be painful, but action is required. There is then no reason to continue in the same track. As I said at the outset, it seems that the majority sees this, both from the point of view of what the rapporteur said in his statement, and from the observations of the majority. However, there is a lack of willingness to address this even when you have the rehabilitation contract for treatment – for the benefit of partners, for Finnmark and for the rest of the country. This is how the majority acts as the worst enemy of reindeer families. The case rapporteur, Haugen, said in his statement that it is important to ensure a legal basis in the future treatment of the reindeer management law, so that the authorities can put in place the necessary measures. I understand that the majority want a legal basis for enforcement measures for the reindeer industry. I think that's positive. We in the Progress Party must be positive co-players when the reindeer management law comes to treatment in Stortinget until the fall. It has been difficult to communicate with the reindeer industry on the challenges facing it. I hope that it can be better, and that the Committee in the context of the treatment of the reindeer management law will take a trip to Finnmark to take a closer look at the situation. It is important to take the necessary action in relation to the treatment of the reindeer management law. It is necessary for the Government to show action. I was not so long ago in a line change in Stortinget's Question Time with the Minister of Agriculture on this issue. I understood that he sees that there is a need for significant changes, and that one must have ecological balance as an important leading star in reindeer management policy. I think we're going to take the big and basic debate when we get the reindeer law to deal with. We have to trust the government to make a bill for the fall. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2226	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2229	I think the case rapporteur presented the position in a good way and explained the majority's views on the reindeer contract of the year. The right is behind the vote and the majority comments at all points. I therefore have no need to review this. I would like to make a few brief comments on what we think is one of the major challenges for the reindeer industry in the future to bring about more economic and ecological sustainable development. I think the main challenge is that reindeer meat, as an exclusive product of high quality, is barely available in Norwegian grocery stores. Except for frozen finniff, it is hardly possible to find normal reindeer meat in the shops, even here in the capital. It's a paradox when we know a product range like, for example, Includes the internal file from Brazil. So the challenge is to get something done about the process that brings the meat from wide and out into the market. Therefore, the right considers that an increased use of resources at market and logistical level within the framework of the clean-up agreement should be a direction to be taken in the future. The Bondevik II Government spent money under the agreement on, inter alia: Television marketing of reindeer meat. I would assume that the Norwegian market is fully capable of accepting a larger volume if you add up to a production chain that provides a predictable delivery to the food chains, combined with marketing efforts. The need for increased efforts in market labour is also highlighted in a section of a majority in the position. I hope these are signals that the Council of State and the Government are taking with them in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2240	The grubbing-up agreement is one of the most important operational instruments we have to achieve the clean-up policy objectives. Purification shall be sustainable in both ecological, economic and cultural terms. This isn't a little bit of ambition, and many would say that it's an impossible task to reconcile these goals. I can at least support that if it's not exactly possible, then it's historically been a big challenge to find solutions where these three considerations are balanced in a reasonable way. I want to underline what an almost collective committee writes in the setting, that «organic sustainability requires the essential emphasis to be placed on the management of the grazing basis in order to ensure the grazing balance». We're not there today. There are too many pure in relation to the grazing basis of the Finnmark range. There's no doubt about it. A better balance must be created between gravitational pressures and resources than is currently the case. The size has repeatedly commented and discussed this fact that there is an imbalance between the reindeer and the grazing basis of the Finnmark range. So the relationship is commented on and underlined, even in a separate report from the National Audit Office. It is very important that efforts to reduce the reindeer numbers on Finnmarkswideda are prioritised, because it is crucial to strike a good balance between reindeer numbers and grazing grounds in West Finland. This must also be reflected in the legislative work that the Government is now doing. The new reindeer management law must be designed in such a way as to ensure that ecological sustainability is taken into account. I am pleased that the value creation programme for reindeer management has been continued. The value added programme is an important measure to ensure positive economic and ecological development in industry. Like programmes for forest, food and fisheries, such a programme is an important way of developing increased profitability in new products and processes. Finally, I will be allowed to stress that I am very pleased that the Progress Party in this position is solely concerned with the proposal to wind up the entire reindeer management agreement. I hope they will also do that with regard to the future reindeer settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2258	Like all parties, except for the Progress Party, the Left joins the reindeer management agreement 2006/2007 and the other matters referred to in the proposal. There was also a good review here of the case spokesperson. It is emphasised in the Committee's recommendation that the warning of new reindeer management laws will be an important tool to ensure a stable framework for reindeer operations. This is what I hope to be, but it is equally important to establish framework conditions related to area boundaries, grazing times and the number of clean, and that these become operational. The present situation, with poor quality and poor returns for parts of the industry, requires the imposition of coercive measures to reduce the purity, as warned by the previous government, if not concluded by agreements. Many suggest that drastic action needs to be taken. Preliminary figures refer to a marked decrease in the slaughter rate from 2004/2005 to 2005/2006. So I want to challenge the Council of State whether this is being followed up well enough in the work that is being done. The previous bigotry was very clear that this was a desirable and wild policy, and it also underscores the Committee's recommendation here today. Purification is a primary activity that exploits marginal natural resources on a mountain and a wide scale. Purgatory is also a material basis for Sami culture. For the left, it is important that a reindeer area is secured. Developments in areas of reindeer management must be adapted and in cooperation with reindeer industries. It must also be evaluated in relation to other planned interventions in the same areas. The main challenge for sustainable reindeer farming is to reconcile the number of clean and grazing grounds, so that one can obtain large and healthy animals that secure large and healthy calves and a good economic basis. The left will point to how important it is to find a partnership with the industry that is based on respect for the knowledge of the reindeer themselves, while at the same time we cannot continue to look at an increase in the imbalance between the number of pure and grazing grounds. If the industry itself does not take responsibility for the reduction in the reindeer rate, it will be necessary to assess the quota limits for the individual reindeer. The left also believes that women can play an important role in the reindeer, as at all levels, and we will therefore be able to help and facilitate women to become more central players in reindeer policy than they are today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2273	Over a period of six months as Minister of Agriculture and Food, I have experienced close contact with a great and exciting industry. We must be proud that we have Sami reindeer in Norway. At the same time, as we know, we face a number of challenges both within industry and in relation to other societal interests. I am therefore pleased that the Committee gives such clear signals in relation to the various issues that need to be addressed here in the debate. For many years, the clean-up agreement has been one of the most important tools in the clean-up policy. It has been targeted in various ways at the overall objective of ecological, economic and cultural sustainability of reindeer management. The production-dependent subsidies currently negotiated facilitate increased slaughter and value creation. The year’s negotiated solution underpins the recent upturn, with more emphasis on the development of the industry and the organization of the reindeer’s main activity. Furthermore, Rein drift's Development Fund is strengthened, so that we are better able to meet the reindeer management challenges associated with the necessary infrastructure. Another area of particular attention is women’s and family-oriented action. Good solutions here are crucial for the future of the industry. The grazing situation in parts of Finnmark, as pointed out by the Committee, has been worrying for a long time. There is no doubt that this is still a work that needs to be done. An important starting point is the development of solutions that are well anchored in the objectives of ecological, economic and cultural sustainability. In this work, it is important to establish a cooperation line in which both the experience-based natural knowledge held by the marine practicers and scientific competence are involved. Cooperation between authorities, industry and research must take place as early as possible in the process. Only through such a procedure can we get a result that is best for both the practitioners' sea and for society at large. The Rein driftsgesetz is known for its audit, and in my view we have now established a good consultation process with Sametinget and the Norwegian Rein driftssamers Landsförbund. I hope that through this work we will produce a law that will be a decent tool for reindeer operations. I also want to take advantage of the opportunity to get into the pressure on the areas of reindeer farming. This is perhaps one of the biggest challenges that industry is now facing. For the authorities, too, this is a problem to which we must pay particular attention. Through several sources of international law, the State is responsible for the material basis of Sami culture. Purification is an important part of this base, and without satisfactory pasturage throughout the year, the reindeer management, as we know it and want it to be, cannot be maintained. I have therefore taken the initiative to systematically review the challenges we are facing, with a view to achieving a good and comprehensive land policy in relation to reindeer management. In such a work, it is important to have a broad approach, with careful monitoring of issues and challenges, and to assess them both in relation to other users of the land as well as relevant legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2292	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2295	After all, the Storting has decided that the number of pure Finnmarks should be 64,100 animals. Today we are in a situation where we are far above this. Maybe we have as many as 100,000 animals more than what the Storting has decided. What concrete measures does the Council of State want to follow up on this, so that we get into 64 100 animals – and then we talk about West Finland? Another side of this case is that today in Finnmark we have essentially nomadic reindeer. In those areas where there is the greatest wear and tear, only nomadic reindeer operations. Will the Council of State consider possible measures to be able to go into a stationary reindeer, which requires a much lower number of clean ones to be able to feed a family?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2305	As I have both sailed and very many speakers have been present, we are now in the middle of a law work linked to a new law on reindeer management. Therefore, it would be very unwise for me here and now to address the individual actions to be assessed in relation to that legislative work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2310	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2313	The failure of the Norwegian authorities to follow up decisions on the size of the population has led, through many governments, to a situation today that suggests that we can face an ecological disaster in Finland. The reason why the Progress Party does not want to stand behind the Government's comments is that State grants are productive and an incentive to increase the number of animals. That's not what we need. We need something completely different. The current situation suggests that the Government should find completely different solutions in a number of areas than they actually propose. The reindeer industry in West Finland in particular is in a serious crisis, both with regard to an increasingly failing grazing base, the risk of serious infringements of the Animal Protection Act and the performance basis for the economic operators. The ecological circle is about to break down. The basis for the industry, the grazing grounds, is now far from capable of raising as many animals as are widespread. This results in for weak individuals, who in turn produce for weak calves, who once again have to survive on a severely reduced grazing basis. Common sense suggests that the Government should therefore have implemented entirely different measures than an increase in the grant, which clearly stimulates a higher number of animals. It is felt in Finland that in half a year and a half animals do not have a higher slaughter weight than the annual calves have in our neighbouring countries, among others. on the basis of the grazing basis, and that we have nomadic reindeer operations with two long movements per year. Nomadic restocking is very resource-intensive and suggests that the number of reindeer must be high in order to meet the income base of a family. Two settlements, several vehicles, more abrasion on the grazing basis and excessive operating costs are required. Stationary reindeer operations may be carried out with less than half as many animals as the nomadic. Then it should be clear and everyone should understand that where this is possible, this will actually be a success. There has been a success in Finland and Sweden: higher slaughter weight, healthier animals and an industry that is driven in an interaction with what nature can produce from grazing resources. That the reindeer is fed in periods of winter is right. But this is a less negative factor than maintaining a policy that will be an ecological disaster. It also goes without saying that the possibilities of promoting Sami tradition and culture will be considerably greater in stationary reprocessing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2324	Ingvild Vaggen Malvik has in a clear way explained SV's view of the reindeer management agreement itself, and I have no additions to it. But there's another consideration I want to get into. Reference is made in the document to the Riksrevision report related to the grazing situation in Finnmark, which was a review from 2003 to 2004, and in which a decision was taken by the Control and Constitutional Committee in February 2005. I've read through that whole setting. I have to say that it is a strong and clear attitude that, as far as I can see, the whole committee is essentially united about. It makes very clear the concern about overgrazing in Finnmark and points out that action is absolutely necessary. One thing is the reindeer contract of the year. But if you look back at a number of reports year by year and considerations that have been, in many ways every new year is just a copy of the previous. It is also thought-provoking when you look at the National Audit Office's report, that the most profitable years you've had have been after you've had some ecological disasters with animals that've starved in their heels, and that in the context of compensation schemes. When it turns out that an industry is going best the year after 50,000 animals have been lost, there is something that is ripping wrong. I see that the Minister of Agriculture pointed out in the report of the Riksrevision that in many ways action was paralysed because of ILO Convention No. 169 on indigenous peoples. When you get an interpretation that is based on principles of international law that make you unable to intervene in relation to an ecological lack of grazing basis, it gets completely wrong. Fortunately, the Committee on Control and Constitution did not feel paralyzed for that reason. They point out, however, that there is a clear misinterpretation of international law if, in the interests of individuals, action is not to be taken. It is precisely grazing that industry will be able to survive over time, which must be decisive. That means that you have to reduce the number of animals and make sure that it's a grazing ground. It is not guaranteed today, and that means that you need to have much, much more active action in the future than what you have had at present. This means that what the Government will come back with later will have to have active measures in place. What you see in Finnmark when you stay in those areas, go out in nature and study it, is ruined nature. It is one of the largest, perhaps the largest area in Norway today with major natural disasters. We can't live with that. It also requires active measures from the Government because a number of previous governments have just failed to provide the active measures. This means that we cannot have the same kind of considerations in Stortinget year on year without it being followed by active measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2339	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th [[Fotation, see page 2879]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2355	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2364	Form loading is one of the biggest obstacles to the development of Norwegian companies today. Norwegian business leaders want to produce. They will not fill in schemas. For this reason, it has also been very important to try to reduce the burden over several years and in many majorities and in many governments. There is a good deal to say that one to some degree has been successful in it. The right road has gone, but there is still a long way to go. The main objections we have received from the business community when it comes to working on this, are particularly related to two aspects. The only thing is that the work is too fragmented, so it's too under-coordinated. The second is that this work must be carried out at all times. It must be better than it has been so far, and one is also forced to involve the companies in this work in order to get it better. This means that the companies feel that they are coming in at a little too late to have a real impact. For this reason, the business community, the NHO and several other organisations, have taken initiatives to bring about more coordinated progress in this work. That is what the minority proposal is about today, easy to get to a steering group that can coordinate the work further. I would like to address the proposal from the minority, and recommend it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2375	The representative Petter Løvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2378	It is important to focus on simplifying the rules and reducing the burden of forms for business and the public sector. Simplification and reduction of the number of forms to which businesses must adhere have been a theme for the Storting and for changing governments for a number of years. I think well when Lars Sponheim became Minister of Industry of the Bondevik I-government about nine years ago, when he announced with outrage and bram that he wanted the form field to be put to death. This would be Left's great achievement project. The paradox is that when he left the Ministry of Economic Affairs office to its successor three years later, the form field was larger than ever. As the Committee refers to in its position, several measures have already been taken to achieve the objective of reducing the burden on industry of reporting and increasing the benefits to industry of the information reported. It is important that these measures should work over time and be further developed in order to deliver good results. One of the measures taken is the Altinn, which will become its gateway to all public services during 2008. In the revised national budget, which we are to deal with in this Chamber over a few hours, the Government has proposed an extra promise of 6.6 million. kr from the Ministry of Industry’s budget to strengthen the Brønn Island Health Register’s work on electronic reporting to the public. Of this, 4.5 million is going to be going to be. kr is used to enhance the organisation of forms and user-friendly solutions. This shows that the Government is taking this challenge seriously. In the newspapers on Thursday, one could read that seven out of ten company leaders believe the simplification work seems to be motivated by their own needs and wishes, and not by the needs of business. This is a signal we have to take seriously. I am sure that the Minister of Industry will take this into account in the further work in this area. But I agree with the conclusion of the Council of State, which in the letter to the Committee says that we need to do so, is not to set up another steering group, but to focus on strengthening, intensifying and strengthening the measures that are already in place. Finally, I have to say that sometimes I am a little surprised at the lack of consistency of the opposition party in this area. On the one hand, they say that they are concerned with simplification, while on the other hand, they come up with more suggestions about even more forms and even more bureaucracy. One example of this is the Right's proposal to impose publication obligations for all public purchases below 500000 kroner, a proposal supported by the other opposition parties when it was dealt with in this room a few weeks ago. If they had been able to do so, it would undoubtedly have been a step backwards for the work of modernising and simplifying the public procurement legislation, while at the same time leading to an even greater number of business forms.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2393	It is true, as the previous speakers have pointed out, that politicians have aimed at reducing the workload of industry in complying with laws and regulations over many years and through several governments. This work has had a high priority among politicians, as Norwegian companies have faced some challenges with high operating costs in relation to enterprises in other competing countries. In view of this, a number of cooperation forums have been set up between industry and the public sector, because it has been recognised that companies themselves know where the shoe prints. With that in mind, it would certainly be unnecessary for the proposers to propose their own proposal to set up a separate steering group focusing on simplification. Unfortunately, the existing cooperation forums, to which the Council of State refers in its letter to the Committee, do not work for business. It may seem that the anchoring of these forums in public is rather poor, and that forums lack clear mandates. At the same time, it is a challenge that no one has the overall responsibility for the progress of simplification processes in the various departments and departments. And that's what's at the heart of the problem, and the minority wants to do something with it. How do we ensure that the simplification work is progressing well? How do the fire walls break down between the departments? Who can take overall responsibility, and who can be held accountable if nothing happens? Industry has used measurement parameters for all years and knows that measures that are measured in some way will also be successful. At the same time, the business community also has an intention of simplifying, while the public sector is not able to see the results on the bottom line to that extent. Unfortunately, the majority seems to be hiding behind the argument that there are already forums for cooperation, without commenting on the mandates of these cooperation bodies or on the results to which they can refer. I would say that, in my own letter to the Committee, the Council of State shows the need for an overall steering group. There he mentions three existing forums for cooperation: Altin Liaison Forum for Business Simplification for Electronic Services and Business Coordination There are probably more forums that are not mentioned, but the fact that there are at least three forums that will operate immediately in principle shows how fragmented this work is today. And who is actually from the public sector in these forums? Is there anyone there with a decision-making mandate, or is it just a forum for information exchange? The argument from the Council of State that there are enough forums already, I can partly agree – we may even be able to remove some. However, this must lead to one of these forums being given a mandate to lead, coordinate, monitor and impose in relation to simplification measures across departments and departments. Unfortunately, it seems that the Council of State will only use its jewelry box to decorate the existing forums. We therefore consider it necessary to stand on our proposal to set up a new steering group, composed of representatives of industry and the public sector. It might have been desirable to have a responsible state council within the group, so that there was the power to implement measures that were agreed upon. At least there would have been a certain opportunity to make real progress in reducing the unnecessary cost and time spent by businesses. Governments travel around the country and the beach and talk about calculations that show that 580 annual works have been saved through the simplification work. And that unfortunately gives a picture that everything is going so well. The fact that industry reports on the opposite does not seem to defuse the Council of State at all. And that's reason to ask how the input that business is making into the existing forums is being respected and treated. I fear the managers who said that the simplification work only serves the public sector employees is completely right. Unfortunately, the economic perspective seems to be forgotten, and this may be particularly evident when the Council of State in its letter indicates that it is up to individual departments to implement the simplification measures that the Government will introduce in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2431	This is such an important matter that she had felt she would be treated at a slightly more favourable time of day. I note that the government party does not want to set up a steering group for the coordination of business and public sector simplification. We are disappointed with this, but the plurality determines, so it looks rather dark for the proposal to which the Christian People's Party is also a co-sponsor. But I still hope that the Council of State can confirm that he will agree to the NHO's invitation for cooperation to follow up the thorough preparatory work done by the NHO through the report 'Simplified everyday life for businesses'.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2440	The fight for simplification and for form fields has been one of the most important industrial policy issues for the Left for many years. We therefore wholeheartedly support the initiative of the Progress Party to set up a cooperative body to reduce the burden on business and the public sector. We believe this is necessary in order to coordinate the work on simplification and to obtain results from the work. As a spokesperson in a relatively small municipality, I have worked closely against the business community, and I have seen how the start-up, small business that cannot afford to afford professional help, labor with the form field in addition to the other challenges they have by starting and running their own business. And of course, I have looked very closely at the amount of time and duplication of work that the municipalities use to satisfy their country's need for reporting and form completions. I've experienced it so that there's cross-political agreement that we have to do everything we can to remove the most possible of such work, both from the public and from the business community, so that the forces are useful in creating good services for our citizens and the values of our business. I cannot therefore understand that the party of government cannot join this proposal. It is also not long since Size handles a similar document no. Eight proposals, on which the Left was involved, on a simplified code for small limited liability companies. A number of simplification measures were proposed, mainly linked to small enterprises, and most with very small economic consequences. In the context of the revised budget, the Left has put forward proposals for several simplification measures for small and medium-sized enterprises. The response from the government party has been negative in these matters as well. I was at NHO's launch seminar for a simpler everyday life for the companies on May 4th this year, and State Secretary Karin Yrvin said: ‘We need to facilitate an uncomplicated, low-cost regulatory framework and for good public services. Simplification work will be actively used in the future to increase value creation in enterprises and to strengthen the Norwegian economy.» Then I thought, well, at least we're a few things about this. I am therefore disappointed when I see that the government party is not large enough to be involved in good suggestions that can just lead us forward in this work. Now the representative, Oppebøen Hansen, shows that Lars Sponheim was unable to do anything about this as Minister of Industry. We all know that this is a difficult and long-term work, but there's no reason not to do anything about it. I have to remind you of what the Council of State Eriksen refers to in a letter to the Committee, that it was during the Bondevik II administration that the form field was reduced so that a saved 580 years' work, almost 10 pst. in one year. Public policy, form and law often have a well-meaning purpose, but equally often it leads to unnecessary reporting requirements and complex legislation that prevents people and businesses from creating values. I want to say that the left always thinks about this, even when we are involved in new proposals. We also did that when it came to this with the publication of offers that were less than 500,000 kroner. After we had a round of business, where one claimed and assured us that this would not be bureaucratic, we agreed to it in order to create greater opportunities for business. However, I would like to make a request to the Progress Party, which with this proposal shows that they are concerned with simplification. We see very often how exciting the Progress Party is when it comes to creating new rules and promises. We see that the policy of centralisation and standardisation before the public that the Progress Party wants to achieve will lead to a great deal of bureaucracy, control and reporting. The aim of the left is to reduce the form tax on enterprises by one third over the next four years, through the coordination of forms, the full review of the regulatory discontinuity and the coordination of electronic data reporting to the public. It is possible, but a power is required, and concrete measures are required and not vague programme formulations. It also requires that we dare to bet on local democracy. The Stoltenberg government can continue where the bourgeois government escaped, and the Left will completely end up about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2473	Simplification is important in order for each enterprise to be able to spend as much time as possible on production and innovation, and as much time as possible on administration. To get this done, we need a systematic follow-up and an overall approach to the problems we're going to solve. So here I am fully in line with the proposers, and the government's simplification policy is based on this as a starting point. The Government has as its clear objective the international leadership of Norway in the field of public electronic services. My job is to work for good business services, both for those who are well established, and for those who are in a start-up phase. Therefore, the Government is working along three main lines to simplify and facilitate the widest possible value creation in business. Firstly, we do this by further developing the ALTINN, secondly through the Oracle competence centre, which contributes to the good analysis of the impact on business by law-makers, and thirdly through the overall monitoring of the administrative costs of companies by complying with the legislation, so that we can identify effective simplification measures. I am pleased that a total mass of people agree that simplification is important. I am also pleased that the committee majority agrees with me that the forums that exist are sufficient to carry out this important work in a good way. Instead of creating more groups, we should further develop and strengthen existing structures and ensure their functioning. The Business Simplification Advisory Forum shall be the Government’s Business Communication Forum. On 7 June I had a meeting in this contact forum. Here we agreed that this is an important forum for ensuring the necessary coordination in this work. We discussed the Forum's tasks, and we agreed that strategic issues and priorities should be the main focus. We also discussed the mandate of this forum, with the assumption that we should make the necessary adjustments and amendments where necessary. I will follow up this work to ensure that this will be a useful forum, and that users experience adequate impact possibilities. Simplification work will be actively used in the future to increase the value creation of enterprises and to strengthen the Norwegian economy. To get this done, we are totally dependent on close and close contact with the users. Therefore, good contact with the NHO and the rest of the industry will be essential in future work, in order to obtain the best possible result.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2488	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2491	I was in my contribution to the fact that the Council of State in the media still indicates that there was a reduction in the form load corresponding to 580 years of work last year. These are really just numbers that some number crusher in the Task Register has come up with, and there is absolutely no evidence from the companies that the numbers are correct. In a survey conducted by the Norwegian Authorised Accounting Association, 65 psts. by the managers that they have not marked a reduction in the form load. My questions to the Council of State therefore become: why does the Council of State consistently use these figures when he knows that the NHO and the NARF report that this is not a fact and that most managers say they do not notice anything about a reduced form load? Doesn't the Council of State think that the use of these figures should be more careful, and perhaps take a new review to see if they actually vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2499	The numbers used are correct numbers, there are documented numbers – there are numbers from the Task Register that no one has asked questions about or documented are wrong. That someone doesn't experience a simplification, I think it's real to them. It is a fact that simplification has helped to reduce the burden on businesses. This is mainly due to the switch to electronic processing of forms. That's why the numbers from the Task Register are probably correct, but the experience that industry has is also correct. What the government has now taken up and will start to do is to identify the time and costs of companies in compliance with legislation, which will mainly help to simplify the work of businesses. The work that has been carried out has probably contributed largely to making things simpler in public, but it also benefits business because it reduces the cost to business in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2506	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2511	Several studies show that the form field and follow-up of laws and regulations cost business more than NOK 30 billion a year. That's what it costs business. Then we have what the public spends on treating all of this. It might also be interesting to know what people spend most of their time on red tape in their everyday lives, and how much it costs for the public to collect all the taxes and taxes. There is often talk about simplifying the form field. When I became active in the policy for approx. 10 years ago, I remember this was also a theme. Only between 1998 and 2006 have four governments submitted for simplification. But bureaucracy has wanted it different. I also have great doubts as to whether this government has reduced the form field in particular. It is not rare for us to receive feedback from companies, individuals and interest groups, such as: The Business Association, the NHO, the Norwegian Authorized Accounting Association and the Tax Payer Association, say that simplification is slow. The National Audit Office has previously pointed out that the number of forms and regulations was reduced by only 2.9 pst. during the period 1998-2004. At the same time, the length of each regulation had increased by 12.5 pst. In the same report from the National Audit Office, it is reported that well over half of 4 500 small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) have experienced a number of regulations in the last two to three years and that 39 pst. of these enterprises believe that they spend more resources on form reporting now than they did two to three years ago. Half of the companies asked that they still have to answer the same questions several times. The need for an overall steering group to reduce the burden on business and the public sector is also well reflected in a letter I received from the Council of State yesterday – another response to a letter on ‘a simpler everyday life for businesses’, which Kåre Fostervold and I sent to the Minister of Food and Trade for approx. a month and a half ago. There, the Council of State itself writes: ‘One of the main challenges is to establish good services across the level, which requires good cooperation between the departments and with users.’ That is the problem. The national audit explains the modest reduction in the burden of the most taxed departments, the Directorate of Taxation and the Directorate of Customs and Fees, and shows, among other things, that there has been a relatively small reduction in the burden. that there were only three out of 51 state agencies that accounted for the whole reduction. In his report, the National Auditor’s report wrote quite eloquently: ‘Central objectives in simplifying legislation and reducing the burden of completing and submitting a business form have been achieved to a limited extent.’ So, said in a less bureaucratic way: the pharmaceutical field lives and flourishes like never before, and with the information we've received since then, it indicates that the red tape flowers with the new government have caused a lot of fertilizer to grow even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2541	As rapporteur, I note that there is a broad consensus that this is an important issue and that we must continue to work on the matter. The real disunity goes in the way of organizing it further progress, and it was said from both the Council of State and from representatives of the government parties that we have enough bodies, we have enough organization as it is, when it comes to this work. On the contrary, a letter from the NHO dated 6 June, to which other organisations also agree, states that the point is that existing organisations are unable to address these issues. That is the background to the proposal. Here are the lines of division, and I recommend the proposal put forward by the minority in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2546	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2880]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2554	Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2562	During the debate, 15 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1–6, by Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 7-10, by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats and of the Right-wing motion for a resolution. 11, by Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 12, by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 13–15, from Line Henriette Holten Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 13–15, from the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2610	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 12 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the opening of all cod quota vessels to be authorised to catch king crabs freely throughout the entire area of operation of the management plan.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2625	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to adjust the required sailing routes in line with the recommendations of the management plan as soon as practicable.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2640	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 to 10, from the Party of Advancement and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2667	President! From the Christian People's Party we have announced that we are voting in favour of proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2674	It is then first voted on proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2686	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 to 10, from the Party of Advancement and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2698	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–6, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2761	A vote will be taken on the proposal by Mr Andersen on behalf of the Party for Progress, the Right and the Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 6 June 2006: «The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a corporate separation of vertically integrated companies that better protect the interests of consumers.»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2780	A vote will be taken on the proposal by Mr Andersen on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right sent by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 6 June 2006: «The Government requests the Government to propose a corporate and functional separation for vertically integrated companies with more than 10000 network customers.»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2799	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 5, from André N. Skelstad on behalf of the Left. There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requires the Government to submit an obliging plan for a minimum pension of up to 2 times the basic amount.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e2823	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e3774	During the debate, Mr Hagen put forward three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e3819	During the debate, Per-Kristian Foss has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to review the legislation on the handling of issues in Innovation Norway, with a view to ensuring that the system adequately meets the need for monitoring and reviewability of decisions and decision-making bases in Innovation Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e4187	During the debate, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests during the autumn of 2006 to promote a case for the Storting which, based on the investigations carried out in connection with the infection of E. coli bacteria in the spring of 2006, contains an action plan for improving the work on food safety, including the future organisation of the Food Safety Authority.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e4217	A vote will be taken on the proposal by Mr Laila Davay on behalf of the Christian People's Party sent from the Odelstinget meeting on 8 June 2006: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal for a law amending Section 9 of the Abortion Act so that the woman’s ability to take care of the child as well as the availability of the woman’s disease shall not be relevant when assessing the termination of pregnancy.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e4236	There will be a vote on the proposal by the representative of the Magnificent Laila Davay on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left sent by the meeting of the Odelsting on 8 June 2006: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for amendments to the Law on Mental Health §§3-1, 3-2 and 3-3 to allow psychologists with relevant practices and further training in line with doctors to establish mandatory mental health protection and §6-2 so that psychologists with relevant practices and further training are treated as members of the Control Commission.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e4255	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left motions No. 2-5, by Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 6 and 7, from the right
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e4291	President! This vote is a little strange because proposal No. 2 by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the It would be quite strange if the Progress Party were to vote against. I ask that there be special voting on them, or that there should be a vote on proposal No. 2 and 6 in total.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e4298	Could Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr repeat this from the pulpit?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e4301	Proposal No. 2 by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Therefore, those proposals should be able to merge, possibly allowing the Progress Party and the Right to vote in favour of the proposals of the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e4306	This should have been clarified in the setting. Since it's not done, we have to consider this as packages. Then Stortinget will have to vote on the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e4309	In that case, it's a very strange procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e4316	It is according to the setting - that's how it is formulated in the setting. It should have been worded differently in the setting if you wanted it this way. What's the point, is that during a vote, everyone should be given the opportunity to vote for what they're for. That'll give you a chance if you vote the way that's suggested here. It is then voted on the proposals Nos. 2–5, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e4356	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to take the initiative in rediscovering the co-operation regulatory framework so that the ceiling on the number of participating uses is increased or removed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e4518	During the debate, Mr Asmyhr tabled four proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e4653	President! My counter button didn't snap.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e4660	Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-15-2.ana.ud1783e4678	During the debate, Petter Løvik has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a steering group mandated to coordinate the simplification work of business within the public sector. The Steering Group shall be composed of representatives from both industry and the public sector. The Steering Group will be established in conjunction with the State budget for 2007.’» Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
