ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e66	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Odelstingen meeting tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Marit Nybakk and Per Rune Henriksen. – Other proposals are not available, and Marit Nybakk and Per Rune Henriksen are unanimously elected presidents of the Odelstinget meeting tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e82	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there should be no change of line. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e91	The Government's proposal to extend the parental quota by one week to father involves an extension of the benefit period at birth by one week, i.e. a social benefit period of 54 weeks of 80 pst. Coverage and 44 weeks with 100 pst. coverage. In the case of adoption, the social benefit period is proposed for 51 weeks and 41 weeks respectively. The proposal does not entail any other amendment to the rules on the feathering quota. Thus, the proposal does not imply that there will be more fathers than today who will be entitled to a family quota. The proposal to extend the parental quota is a continuation of a family policy that has led Norway to be one of the countries providing the best maternity leave schemes. Work on including fathers in the leave scheme is important for both mother and father to combine care for young children with professional activity and for fathers to have greater opportunities to participate in the early care period for children. The extension of one-week leave opportunities for fathers is significant, but there is still a long way left for a desired care sharing between mother and father. The proposed legislative changes have been dealt with in the past in the context of the 2006 budget and are thus a follow-up to previous treatment in Stortinget. Behind the decision of reality taken in December was all the parties except the Advance Party. The broad consensus was also expressed in the Committee's budgetary position. The majority of the Committee expressed its views on the matter. all except the Advance Party, as follows: ‘The majority are satisfied with the proposal to extend the spring quota by one additional week to six weeks from 1 July 2006. The majority would point out that the Ministry's proposal implies that parents retain a period similar to that currently used for distribution on the basis of individual family bests.' [[...]] It is good that we stand so united behind such an extension and behind such a family policy as this proposal and the decision that we are also going to make today is an expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e107	It is true that this case has been dealt with in the past, but as a representative of the only party that was outside, I had a need to make a clarification. The advancement party has faith in parents and their ability to assess what is best for their children, and what is most practical for each family. An extension of the parental quota is now completely wrong for the Progress Party when we know that Norway has one of the best maternity and maternity leave schemes in the world initially. It must be up to the individual family to give priority to how to take time to be with their newborn child. For us, it's important to work for equal rights to leave for both parents. We are not of the opinion that the woman is best suited to be at home with her child. On the other hand, we are convinced that Father has the same qualities. In these times of equality, it should be obvious that both parents are given the same opportunity and the same rights. But – and we can't say that enough times – it has to be up to the single ancestor to find the solutions. The maternity leave should not be earmarked for women. We think that is very unfortunate. That is why we are promoting proposals to amend laws and regulations so that the couples themselves can decide how they want to distribute the permit. At the same time, we believe that it is important to look at the overall framework for the compensation of young children’s parents. Several other lots – classical spending lots – do not see such limitations. They find it opportune to tempt young children's parents with several weeks of paid leave. The Progress Party believes that today’s framework for maternity leave is good and that there is no socio-economic coverage for cost-intensive reforms in birth grant schemes now. We believe that we should return to enlargement at a later stage. In the meantime, careful attention should be paid to the extent to which the withdrawal of parental leave is more equally distributed between mother and father. With this I would like to address the proposal to the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e120	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the suggestion she made. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 344]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e138	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 345]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e154	The changes in the proposal currently under consideration are proposed to ensure that Norwegian legislation complies with the requirements of the Biomedical Convention of the Council of Europe as regards access to intervention against persons who are unable to consent. It appears from the opinion that the Committee strongly agrees with this matter. In case of an incursion, the government fraction has entered a note in the setting on page 4, first column, at the bottom. We regret that, but this comment would result in a narrowing of today's practice. So that wasn't our intention, and I'm going to briefly explain this. The proposed second paragraph of Section 9 of the Odelstingsproposition provides guidance as to what considerations would be relevant for the assessment of whether an interruption in pregnancy would be in the clear interest of a woman without consent. The bill does not mention serious illness, but refers only to § 2, third paragraph, point (c). If a serious disease is to be «understood as a serious heritable disease without treatment» only in relation to women who do not have consent, the legislative proposal will not be adopted in the present form. So the assessment of what is in the interests of women is linked to Section 2 in order to avoid discrimination between women with and without consent more than is necessary. An understanding of a serious disease such as ‘serious hereditary disease without treatment’ in relation to the woman without consent implies that the rules governing the granting of abortion to these women would be stricter than those applying to women with consent who are eligible for abortion, which in turn may constitute indiscriminate discrimination, and we believe that the principle of Norwegian law is not to discriminate indiscriminately.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e165	The representative, Gunn Olsen, has pointed to a bug in page 4 of the configuration that will be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e168	The right-hand starting point is that the issue of abortion raises difficult ethical dilemmas. Where public authorities consent to abortion on behalf of persons without consent, this must be regarded as a serious act against individuals. There must therefore be overriding reasons justifying such consent. There is a difference in substance between situations in which the pregnant woman herself decides to interrupt pregnancy before the 12th week of pregnancy and situations in which public authorities decide on behalf of a pregnant woman without consent. Under the Abortion Act, point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 2, attention may be paid to the existence of a high risk of «serious illness» when assessing the consent of the county to termination of pregnancy. But what is a serious illness? In concrete terms, therefore, the diseases, conditions and syndromes that give rise to abortions should be taken into account. This is basically about what states we think are incompatible with a good life. This issue was thoroughly discussed in the context of pre-implantation diagnostics conditions in the debate on the Biotechnology Act. When the law was passed, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party were united in putting a clear limit on which states we should allow it to be tested, in order to avoid selection. In the setting of the Biotechnology Act, Innst. O. No 16 for 2003-2004 these batches stated that ‘it is important to draw a sharp limit on the conditions to be investigated in order to avoid the method being used for the selection of given characteristics that are both life-compatible and are likely to be treated’. There may be no basis for allowing a more liberal practice as to which conditions may justify abortion than as to which conditions may justify the sorting of fertilised eggs, on the contrary. This is the background for the Right’s intervention to clarify that ‘serious disease’ must be understood as a ‘serious disease without treatment’. Such a formulation is consistent with the view we have expressed in connection with the Biotechnology Act. Christian People's Party gives in the setting of Ot.prp. No 63 for 2005-2006, which we are now discussing, expresses a similar view, but has a proposal for even tighter conditions. Moreover, the Right note, which the government parties have now concluded – what the Left does, we are sure to hear afterwards – about what must be considered a serious disease, also relevant for assessments of abortions after the 12th week, both for those who have, and for those who do not have consent. Thus, it cannot be said, as the Advocate General had said, to discriminate against people without the right to consent.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e181	Every human being has the right to life and the right to the same legal protection. The Christian People's Party considers the Council of Europe Biomedical Convention to be an important contribution to the respect of the rights of individuals in medical research and treatment. It also applies to unborn life. It is positive that there should be defined considerations for allowing the county to grant abortions for women without consent. Although there are very few women involved, the principles are nevertheless important, and it is important for the legal certainty of these women that there are strict rules for when someone can ask for abortion on their behalf. The Christian People’s Party supports the Government’s proposal that the relevant considerations in the overall assessment be whether pregnancy and childbirth could lead to undue burden on the physical or mental health of the woman and that emphasis should be placed on whether the woman was pregnant under conditions mentioned in the penal code. What Christian People's Party, on the other hand, does not see as relevant consideration in such a situation, is that the care of the child can become a burden to the woman. In Norwegian society, there are less radical ways of caring for the child’s needs when the woman cannot carry this task herself than abortion. Another relevant consideration proposed by the Government is that in the evaluation the county should pay attention to whether there is a high risk that the child may get a serious disease due to heritable facilities, disease or harmful effects during pregnancy. Nor can this be seen as relevant by the Christian People's Party. It is very difficult to set limits to which heritable facilities and diseases would pose a serious risk of serious illness in the child. However, serious illness in the child may occur as a result of vital medications used by the woman during pregnancy. Therefore, the Christian People's Party wants the Government to return to the Stortinget with proposals for the law on abortion, where relevant consideration for abortion for women without consent should not be whether the woman has the ability to take care of the child, or whether there is a high risk that the child may be seriously ill. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party supports the proposal of the Government of Odelstinget today, since it provides better protection for the unborn and better legal certainty for women without consent than the law of today does. Finally, I would like to address the proposal contained in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e196	The representative of Laila Bavøy has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e199	I had not intended to take the floor, but must say some words about the representative Sjölis post. The representative, Sjøli, knows that you may have different opinions about what might be the reasons for abortion. One also knows that there are different opinions about the batches. But when we choose not to stand on that note, it's because regardless of what view you might have of grounds for termination of pregnancy, it's very important that a non-discriminatory woman without consent and women with consent competence. It would be very wrong for a law to be passed where a person adopts a discrimination, and that is our point in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e204	The question of abortion and sterilisation raises major and difficult ethical dilemmas. In democratic societies such as Norwegian and, as the Council of Europe explicitly refers to in the Biomedicine Convention, it is important to take such debates. It is gratifying that the committee is in agreement in most of these difficult dilemmas, but whatever the legal texts, there will be decisions that have a certain point of view in them. It is therefore important that changes to legal texts, especially in areas such as these, be made after good processes. I believe that the process in this matter has been good, not least in view of the broad hearing process that it was set up. Otherwise, it is time for us in Norway to bring legislation into line with the Council of Europe's Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Human Dignity in relation to the use of biology and medicine, called the Biomedicine Convention. I have otherwise noted that the change in the law involves a more subtle access to allow intervention than the one the current word opens for. Although I understand that the law changes will not bring about major changes in current Norwegian practice, the Left is pleased with this restriction. In the end, I want to make it clear that the Left is together with the Right in the note to which the representative Sjøli referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e217	I record that there are different views on this matter. There's nothing new to it, it's been before, too, where the Center Party and SV have been with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party in some of these questions. But for the Right, things are related, and we stand firm on what I said in my main post, that there can't be any reason to allow a more liberal practice as to what conditions should justify abortion, than as to what conditions can justify sorting of fertilised eggs – on the contrary. This is the background for the Right, and fortunately the Left, to state that «serious disease» must be understood as «serious hereditary disease without treatment options». We believe that such a formulation is consistent with the view we have expressed also in the context of the Biotechnology Act. In the opinion of the Right, which we refer to in our note, serious illness must also be considered relevant for assessments of abortions after the 12th week, both for those who have and those who do not have consent. Thus, in the view of the Right, this cannot be said to discriminate against people without consent, as the representative of the Skjälaa makes it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e224	When we have proposed by the Government to amend the law on abortion and the law on sterilisation, it is in order to ensure that these comply with the requirements of the Biomedical Convention. The Council of Europe Convention of 4 April 1997 on Human Rights and Biomedicine entered into force on 1 December 1999. This Convention respects the rights of individuals in medical research and treatment. Norway signed this Convention as early as 1997 and the Government believes it is high time Norway now ratified the Convention. Following the signing of the Biomedical Convention, the Ministry of Health and Welfare has assessed Norwegian correctly against the requirements of the Convention for ratification. The current rules governing the time when abortion, sterilisation and castration may be carried out in respect of persons lacking consent have been seagoingly reviewed as part of this work. In this context, persons without consent are defined as persons who are so seriously mentally impaired or mentally retarded that they are not able to understand the significance of the intervention. The legislative proposal proposed by the Government underlines that there should only be an exceptional possibility of allowing intervention under the law on abortion and the law on sterilisation against persons lacking consent. Each case has to be carefully considered and it is imperative that the consideration given to it is more weighty. The legislative proposal involves a narrowing of today’s legislation on abortion, sterilisation and castration in order to strengthen the protection of people without consent. The bill does not change the conditions under which abortion, sterilisation or castration may be permitted in cases other than where the person lacks consent. I have noticed that the majority of the Health and Care Committee supports the Biotechnology Name Consultation Opinion, which calls for a description of the scope of current prevention, sterilisation, abortion, children born of parents/mothers without consent, and how child care take-over is handled. I agree that it might be interesting to know more about this, and I can inform you that the Social and Health Directorate and the Sterilisation Students are monitoring the current practice of sterilisation of people without consent. I have also noticed that a majority of the Health and Welfare Committee believes that the text should be made more comprehensible to interested parties and that consideration should be given to the considerations to be taken to avoid pregnancy/birth, where the potential children will either become seriously ill seas or suffer from the absence of care by their parents. With regard to the concept of «serious disease», I understand that some parties in the Health and Care Committee still believe that it must be understood as «serious hereditary disease without treatment options». I would like to say that today it is not a condition in the law that the disease must be heritable. Such an understanding, which I understand some parties still stand for, will have to involve a change in the law that restricts today's access to the granting of abortions. Nor is it a condition in the law that there are no treatment options. Circular I-40/2001 of the Act states that ‘serious disease’ is primarily targeted at serious cases of disease where treatment options are low. If serious illness is to be understood as ‘serious hereditary disease without treatment’ only for women without consent, the legislative proposal could not be adopted in the form it now appears. The assessment of what is in the woman’s interest was linked to Section 2 in order to avoid the risk of discrimination between women with and without consent more than is necessary. For women without consent, serious illness would be understood as ‘serious hereditary disease without treatment’, meaning that the rules for when abortion can be granted would be more stringent for these women than for women with consent. This, in turn, can lead to irresistible discrimination. It is a fundamental principle in Norwegian law that there should be no indiscriminate discrimination. Finally, I am very pleased that in the Health and Welfare Committee there is such broad consensus – with the exception of this point – that Norwegian law should comply with this Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e245	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 345]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e261	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e270	The Health and Welfare Committee has examined Ot.prp. No 65, where the Government has proposed amendments to the Law on Mental Health and the Patient Rights Act with the main objective of strengthening the protection of patients’ rights in the field of mental health protection. The Committee agrees that legal certainty is essential for the formulation of legislation on the use of coercive measures in the field of mental health protection. Forced action is a serious, integrity-enhancing measure, and it is a clear objective to limit the use of coercion in mental health protection as far as possible. Voluntaryness, cooperation and user involvement shall be central to the treatment of patients with mental illness. So to some of the changes. The provision that the Patient Rights Act only applies to ‘as far as appropriate’ is proposed to be deleted. Instead, there shall be specific exceptions to the general patient rights in the case of compulsory mental health protection. This could contribute to normalising the view of people who are mentally ill, because there will be a greater legal equality between patients with mental illness and patients with somatic disorders. It has, among other things, for that reason, it was important for the Committee to listen to the consultation input received by the Committee, in particular from organisations representing those involved in the legislative proposal and which have strong opinions on the patient’s best interests. An important input from Mental Health Norway has been on the basis of which to use coercive measures in the treatment of mentally ill people. Following the proposal of Section 3-3 of the Mental Health Act, it may be appropriate to use coercive measures on the basis of two criteria. The first is if a person presents a ‘near and serious danger to his or her life or health’ — emergency workers. The second is if a person “gets a significant reduction in his/her prospects of recovery or substantial improvement, or there is a great likelihood that in the very near future his/her condition will be significantly deteriorated” — the so-called treatment criterion. The last criterion, the treatment criterion, wants to remove mental health Norway. The Committee considers this to be an important input from patient care and considers that the ministry should address the issue of possible lifting of the treatment criterion in relation to decisions on mandatory mental health protection. We expect the government to follow this up as soon as possible. The Psychological Association has also expressed its opinion that it is important to address this issue. A minority in the Committee, the members of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, propose that the Government return to the Stortinget with proposals that mandatory mental health protection can also be established by psychologists. This should be done as far as possible in consultation with the patient’s fixed physician or treating physician. There are now doctors, who usually do not know the patient, who establish approx. 50 pst. submissions in the field of compulsory mental health protection. Furthermore, there are mainly reintroductions; there are few brand-new patients who are being coerced into hospital. It may then be appropriate for a psychologist to know the patient, who may also be admitted under coercion, rather than an unknown medical practitioner. The first attempt at voluntary mental health protection and possible awareness of the patient from the past can be a good argument for psychological health protection to be established by psychologists. Furthermore, in the construction of emergency teams, to be set up at all district psychiatric centres by 2008, it would be appropriate that, where there is no doctor on the team, which is not a number of places, but psychologist, it would be appropriate that psychologists should also be able to establish mandatory mental health protection. But we also hope that you will actually have more voluntary contributions than coercive contributions below. Although this proposal does not now receive a majority, it is positive that government parties also wish to ask the Council of State to make an assessment of this. The main features of the proposal are supported by the Committee, with the exception of the fact that the Progress Party is voting against the proposal that patients in the field of mental health protection should have the right to choose relatives, and that they propose a more stringent risk assessment in relation to hospital discharge. Many of the proposals discussed by the Committee have had difficult balances, with heavy arguments both for and against the proposals. The Committee’s objective has been to minimise the need for mental health protection, together with the patient’s best interests. I would like to mention proposal No. 1, which is included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e305	The representative of Laila Bavøy has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e308	It is essentially a broad majority of the legislative changes proposed by the Government in the Law on the Law on Mental Health Protection and the Law on Patient Rights. I also want to say that I think the case spokesperson has just held a good and positive post, and I support most of what was said. These legislative proposals deal with the fact that the sick also have justices — patient rights — and that it is important that user involvement is increasingly taken into account in psychiatry. During the processing of this law, we have, among other things, recorded by Mental Health, and I believe it is important to listen to these recordings, for example: precisely in relation to user involvement. It has been problematic for us to have some doubts as to how strong the current patient rights are before mental - health protection. The legislative changes that are now being adopted will help to clean up such uncertainties. A co-ordinated committee expresses in the setting that it is important to strengthen the provision of patient rights before mental health protection. The citizen shall have the possibility to calculate his or her legal position beforehand and defend his or her legal interests. The more intrusive the decisions, the stronger the concern for legal certainty. And it's a matter of course that such interference should be consistent with human rights obligations. These legislative proposals are about the fact that the sick also have courts, but in some cases they are forced to be both defensive and necessary. Force against patients must be used to the minimum possible extent, but once necessary, it is important that this is done in accordance with clear legislation. Doubts should occur as little as possible. In particular, I would like to mention that it is suggested to extend the ratio of coercive feeding to people with serious eating abnormalities. As part of the treatment of a patient with severe eating abnormalities, one should be able to provide nutrition without consent if this appears to be a strictly necessary treatment option. I support this amendment of the law, and I believe it is necessary. At the same time, this is a group of patients who are in need of better treatment. Of course, better treatment provision is important for those who are acutely ill, but it is also important for those who are on their way, both because it is important in itself, and because it can reduce the number of cases where coercion is needed. Another element in the bill that I would particularly like to mention is the entry criteria. The government has warned that work can be done on assessing psychologists' right of recommendation. A psychologist is qualified to decide on psychological issues and to treat mental disorders on a self-reliance basis. A change in laws that allows psychologists to carry out investigations outside the institution and seek mandatory mental health protection will be in line with this. The majority in the Committee are pleased that this is something that the Government assesses, and asks the Government to come back to the Storting in an appropriate way when such an assessment has been made. Finally, I would like to point out an investigation conducted by the Centre for the Safety, Prison and Judicial Psychiatry of the East and Health Region of South showing that there is a lack of the use of structured instruments for assessing the risk of violence and suicide in connection with printing. It is important to improve the implementation and quality of these assessments. It is also positive that the Directorate is working to improve the quality of such assessment before printing. I therefore join the setting as it stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e329	The Progress Party also sees the need to implement legislative improvements in parallel with the Roadmap for Mental Health. It is important to ensure that the conditions for the use of coercive measures, the enforcement of coercive measures, the processing of proceedings and the means of review are in accordance with human rights. The members of the Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, consider the use of coercive measures and restrictive measures to be restricted and controlled by legislative means. The Party of Progress will not legitimise the use of coercive and restrictive measures by law, but considers that coercive and restrictive measures should be limited to emergency measures. In the past, the Progress Party has proposed a right law. Such a right law does not allow the use of force and coercion as behaviourally changing therapy. As we see it, no other form of use of power should be allowed towards the mentally ill than that generally applied in society, where the exercise of power can only be used as an emergency and emergency power. Of course, the Progress Party is aware that some with highly self-injuring behaviour and violent behaviour need to be helped, but this should be a right of care and not a law for the use of coercion and power. It is also important that family and relatives be given greater influence in cases where the use of coercion or power in the provision of care or treatment is necessary. The rules of the Patient Rights Act shall be applied in relation to consent on behalf of children under the age of 16. One consequence of this is that in some cases children under the age of 16 could be considered to have autonomy of consent in relation to a particular measure. Another consequence is that in cases where the protection of children has been permanently or temporarily taken over by the Child Protection Act, the Child Welfare Service may agree to healthcare in the field of mental health protection on behalf of children under the age of 16. The Party supports the proposal but has made a note that problems may arise in the absence of objective child protection and that it is therefore important that the Board of Appeal should be critical in its assessment of whether the decision is in the best interests of the child. Patients under voluntary mental health protection have the right to free hospital choice, and it strengthens patients’ rights that patients under forced mental health protection also have the same right to free hospital choice as other patients, except in cases where it would be ‘unresponsible or significantly appropriate to weaken’ treatment provision. In the Act on Mental Health Protection § 1-3 there is a separate regulation of who is related to the law. The party of progress is of the opinion that the paragraph of the law is good enough as it stands today, and does not want to change it to ‘the one who has had the most lasting and continuous contact with the patient’. We don't want it to be equated to relatives. This, as we see it, will mean a weakening of the family's responsibilities and rights as well as shifting a great deal of responsibility to health workers. The Progress Party will therefore vote against the proposal of the Proposition to amend Section 1-3 of the Act on Mental Health Protection and Section 1-3, first paragraph, point (b) of the Patient Rights Act. The party considers it important to stress that only the doctor has a sufficiently broad professional background to take overall responsibility for the treatment of sick people also within the psychiatric community. Such a position does not conflict with the fact that authorised health professionals have a separate responsibility for providing a sound health service at their professional level. It is important that the responsible doctor always carry out a risk assessment of the patients before they are discharged from the hospital. The risk assessment shall always be documented by the professional responsible. Retention or transfer to forced treatment shall only take place if the patient presents a risk to his or her own life or that of others because of mental illness, but we still record that patients are being discharged from hospitals prematurely, or are not receiving necessary after-care, and this has led to several serious and tragic events. As regards the derogation for transfer or detention to forced treatment or care in Section 3-3, first paragraph, paragraph 3(b), we have proposed that the sentence be changed. The proposal for a decision states that the derogation shall apply only to situations where the consequence of a discharge would be that the patient, due to the disorder of his mind, ‘presents a near and serious danger to his or her life or to the health of others’. We want it to be «a possible danger to the life or health of oneself or others». It's an intrusion, and the reason for that is all the serious events we've had as a result of for sick people being printed out. This change is promoted with a view to better securing society and patients even against serious and tragic events. I am in favour of this proposal from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e352	The representative of Vigdis Giltun has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e355	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur for a thorough and good review of the matter and also the joint proposal on which the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left stand together in the case of psychologists. I'm not going to go any further into it. The legislative proposals we are dealing with today deal with absolutely fundamental health and care policy issues. On the one hand, we must take care of privacy and the protection of the privacy of the individual. These are fundamental principles of human law. On the other hand, freedom from coercion must not become a low-priced right to go down. The right to be different must not become the freedom of society from responsibility for those who cannot care for themselves. This philosophy of care is very central to our welfare society. In the legislative proposals to which the Stortinge subscribes today, two very concrete balances have been made between these considerations. The proposal for a narrow exemption from the conversion ban provides for access to the conversion of voluntary into compulsory mental health protection. An incentive for forced feeding is also provided for patients with severe eating disorders. In both of these areas, we have given greater attention to the philosophy of care than to the protection of privacy of individuals. In other words, we are taking small, but important steps towards increased legal access to forced use. There is reason to be humble in that we have not necessarily found the right balance here, but that we must be open to reconsider our position in the light of experience with the law. However, these difficult ethical dilemmas have not been solved by camouflaging the legal provision behind new terms, as I feel that the Progress Party is in favour. We already have some experience of coercion in mental health protection. Patients say that it is a significant burden to be subjected to mandatory mental health protection and that this causes long-term adverse effects. Doubts about the usefulness of coercive use are also reasons why mental health has proposed to remove the treatment criterion as a basis for mandatory mental health protection. SINTEF studies show that coercive use continues to vary widely between health businesses and health regions, both within and outside daily institutions. In Asker and Bærum, twice as many are forced into the institution of the day as the national average, and twelve times as many as in Helgeland. The great geographical variations in the use of coercion, I think, are alarming. It is necessary to ask the reason for this. A key issue is the need for a greater professional consensus on coercive use and treatment in mental health protection in general. The integrity of patients must not depend on the culture of treatment or where they live. Nor can we accept that the lack of adequate treatment services triggers acute illness that requires coercive use. In view of this, I do not understand that the government parties do not support the comment on the need to strengthen the treatment provision for patients with eating disorders and ensure a professional consensus in this area. As we now expand access to the use of coercive measures in relation to patients with eating disorders, we should at least take measures to ensure that forced feeding is not a bad substitute for lack of voluntary treatment. It is affordable that the Social and Health Directorate has developed an action plan to reduce coercive use. However, it is important that we see coercive use in a wider context with the services of mental health. Patients who are exposed to compulsory mental health protection suffer less from socio-demographic variables such as income, education and housing than those treated on a voluntary basis. 43 pst. of those admitted to forced day-to-day mental health care, do not have a self-contained dwelling, according to SINTEF. This alarming finding shows that people with severe mental disorders also have unsustainable social living conditions. Lacking something as basic as a home can in itself put a lot of mental stress on people. A study conducted under the auspices of the Social and Health Directorate confirms previous findings from patient censuses, namely that hospital emergency services are overcompensated with patients who do not receive adequate treatment elsewhere. The SINTEF study on coercive use and the report of the Social and Health Directorate underlines the need for increased investment in organised housing and improved treatment provision in the community of patients. A primary objective of the mental health escalation plan is to allow people with mental disorders to live and live independently. We are unfortunately miles away from this goal. A mentally ill, absent and despairing girl who was picked up by an ambulance in Oslo City Centre called out that she did not need to be forced, she needed care. It has to be a wake-up call for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e383	The rapporteur has given a good account of the Committee's position. I want to refer to the note where the government parties ‘shows that the Government of St.prp. No 1 notified that work is in progress on assessing the referral rights of psychologists. [[2005-2006]] A change in laws that allows psychologists to establish mandatory mental health protection will be in line with the Innst note. [[1998 - 1999]] O. No 58 where it states that ‘a psychologist is qualified to make decisions on psychological questions and to treat mental disorders on an independent basis’. These members ask the Government to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner once the assessment has been made’. It was during the hearing of this draft law, in meeting with the Psychologists' Association, that I became in a way aware of this issue linked to the right of referral. It's obvious, I think, that if someone like a patient is assessed by a psychologist as you know, there's a greater degree of certainty that the evaluation will be the right one than being assessed by a random doctor, etc. So we know that in terms of this right of referral, there are probably strong interests, even within the Medical Association, in order to share this right of referral with others. We've heard that in other contexts. But we think it is reassuring that the government is working closely on these questions, because that is actually necessary. When we go so far in our remark as to refer to what we have previously said about this, it is precisely in the certainty that this is a work that the Government actually takes seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e397	The main objective of today’s changes in the laws on mental health protection and patient rights is to strengthen patients’ rights. They override the framework referred to in the Proposition, such as the European Convention on Human Rights, the Council of Europe's Recommendation on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of Persons with Mental Illness, the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights and other United Nations central conventions, show, in the Left's view, that an important and solid foundation is being established. This is important because legal protection and human rights must be fundamental to the formulation of legislation on the use of coercive measures in the field of mental health protection. Although the framework of laws is solid, it is a challenge to formulate the laws so that they become as simple as advice, and not least as understandable as possible. It is important that the rungs become clear and clear, and that there is a minimum of discretion. In Norway, the use of coercive measures is relatively widespread. The Norwegian Medical Association’s figures show that in 2000–2001 there were approximately 50 pst. of all patients in psychiatric institutions admitted by coercion. A special feature of mental illness is that the sick person will not always consider himself sick. One of the psychiatry's dilemmas is therefore to what extent it is ethically defensive to treat people who do not themselves understand that they are sick, by coercion, against their own will. The left-hand side suggests that the use of force should be restricted and controlled by law enforcement. But I think we have to admit that the law itself is not enough. The Medical Association started in 2000 a project called the Psychiatry Breakthrough Project, where awareness of staff and more information to patients resulted in a marked reduction in the use of coercion in 19 emergency wards. This shows that staff attitudes and awareness about the use of coercion can be just as important as tightening up the law. So here we have to have more than one thought in our head at the same time. The Left will support the proposal that psychologists with relevant practices and continuing training in the same way as Lêr will be able to establish compulsory health protection and that they could be members of the control commissions. We believe that this change will actually strengthen patients' rights. In the end, Spinoza once said, "Everyone has as many dishes as he has the power to." As a psychiatric patient, a person does not have that much power. It will be more important to strengthen and protect patients’ rights in mental health protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e419	I am pleased that the Committee is so much in favour of the legislative proposals that have been tabled. Following my assessment — and several of the speakers have affected it — these proposals will help to strengthen both the realisation of patient rights in the field of mental health protection and the legal security of the individual patient. Both parts I believe are very important. Legislation is, as you know, just one of the instruments that society has at its disposal to achieve the goals that we set ourselves. Everyone knows that, on the basis of a unanimous increase, we are now implementing a major effort on mental health protection through the escalation plan. In this plan, it is not the legal or the legislation that has been central but a significant increase in the financial resources and the expansion of the service. Nevertheless, I believe that it is really possible to say that the escalation plan is also about patients' rights. The bet is that the individual should receive proper and good help in a timely manner. The patient should be at the centre and the patient’s needs should determine the offer to be made. The Patient Rights Act has already granted a number of statutory rights to help achieve such objectives. Nevertheless, the Ministry has received a lot of input, both prior to the start of legal work and during the hearing, expressing doubts as to the extent to which statutory patient rights actually apply in the area of mental health protection. The reason for this is, among other things, the application of the Patient Rights Act in the field of mental health protection is reserved by the Law on Mental Health. Such ambiguity should be removed, and that is what the Government is now proposing in the bill, and for which I believe there is broad support. It is simply about realising patient rights in mental health protection, and it is also about removing unnecessary special regulation and thus helping to normalize mental disorders. The amendment of the patient rights law also involves some changes to the current legal text. Among other things, the possibility of consenting to mental health care on behalf of children for whom it has taken care is strengthened. In addition, it is proposed that the access of the Child Protection Service to consent be extended further to include temporary care takeovers in emergency situations. I believe that both of these legislative amendments are necessary, and they will strengthen the concern of the children. Furthermore, several legislative changes have been proposed to make the Law on Mental Health more transparent and accessible. It is therefore also a point of legal certainty that the law is as accessible as possible. The so-called tutoring system – the requirement of request from the public authority or the patient’s closest – has been proposed as an absolute condition for forced observation and mandatory mental health protection. This is a system that, according to my concepts, no longer fulfills its original purpose, which was to discharge the responsibility of the immediate family for the person who is seriously mentally ill. Today, the public authority is the requesting authority in about 80 pst. of decisions taken on compulsory observation or mandatory mental health protection. The hearing confirms that the competent authority often does not know the patient in advance. A number of hearing bodies have confirmed that the scheme provides very little for the establishment of mandatory mental health protection a legal certainty value. However, it is important that public authorities, in particular the local doctor, social services and the police, continue to discharge their responsibilities towards seriously ill people. The proposed provision on the public authority’s obligation to provide warning and assistance makes this responsibility visible. A derogation from the ban on the transfer from voluntary to compulsory mental health protection has been proposed. As the majority of the Committee points out, it is important that this should be strictly practised in order to avoid a weakening of the confidence of the healthcare system in mental health protection. The control commissions will have an important role to play in controlling the practices that are being developed. With regard to the question of psychologists being able to conduct the study outside the institution and refer to forced observation or mandatory mental health protection, which has also been discussed by several speakers, there is a work on this issue in my department, which is also mentioned in the comments from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre. I intend to return to Stortinget with these assessments at a later stage. The Law on Mental Health regulates the use of coercive measures. I would say that the use of coercive measures in the investigation and treatment of mental health protection should be the exception. So there's other things we're going to try first, but in some context, there's no way out. Then we have to be sure that we have laws and rules that guarantee them this, first and foremost.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e440	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e443	As I was in my main post, there are great geographical variations in the use of coercion. We think that is alarming. A key issue is the need for a greater professional consensus on coercive use and treatment in mental health protection in general. I assume that there is a consensus that the integrity of patients should not depend on the culture of treatment you encounter, or where in the country you live. Nor can we accept that the lack of adequate treatment services triggers acute illness that requires coercive use. In view of this, I do not understand that the government parties and the government – as I assume they have a parallel vision – cannot support the comment on the need to strengthen the treatment provision for patients with eating disorders and ensure professional consensus in this area. I would like to hear from the Council of State's reasons for this. When extending access to the use of coercive measures in relation to patients with eating disorders, we should at least take measures to ensure that forced feeding is not a poor substitute for the lack of voluntary treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e452	There is nothing in the government bill that is on the table – and of course is in good consultation with our party traps in Stortinget – that you should not have a well-developed offer for those who suffer from eating disorders. It should not be the case that coercive use should replace treatment services which are obviously necessary and which I agree with the representative, Sjøli, that should be better in parts of the country. We need to get significantly better at this. What we're talking about here is coercion when other people don't make any use of it at all, and the one that matters, maybe the sea doesn't realize that he or she needs help, by way of example. coercion.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e457	I have a question for the Council of State about the treatment criterion. We need to be better at following up patients who are being treated, but also patients in post-treatment. The new up-to-date DPS teams that are coming will also be important. I think it could result in less coercion, fewer insertions and more volunteering, which must also be a clear goal. But it will require that we have more time for each patient, more competence related to the patients concerned, better knowledge of the patients and greater cooperation between the first and second line services, not least between the doctors and the psychiatrists. If we can do this, it'll be relatively straightforward, as I see it, perhaps removing the treatment criterion. My question is whether the Council of State has thought about how to deal with this in the department. I know, of course, that mental health and others are impatient. Is there any timetable for when we can hear from the Council again on this important issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e466	Firstly, I fully agree with the representative Davøy that we need to be even better with regard to outreach activities, treatment and DPS, that there is enough time, and that one has knowledge of those who actually need help. Personally, I have to say that I have very great faith in the ambulatory services we are now developing within this offer, where one is looking for people where they live, in their home environment where it is possible, and that it is not the patient who necessarily has to drive many miles to a perhaps strange and unknown place, which also seems scary in that way. So here's a lot to go on. As we may now approach a final phase of the escalation plan, I believe that is something we need to look at in particular. With regard to the specific issue of the treatment criterion, it is of a kind that needs to be properly investigated – at least I feel the need – in order to take it right over the table. I cannot say today when we can come back with such a review, but it is quite clear that we must have a long-term work on both some fundamental questions in the future and also some of them that the representative Davøy here addresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e473	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 346]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e491	The Ministry proposes in the proposal we are now considering, to repeal the law on inflation protection of the basic capital of the Information Society's fund. This provision was incorporated into the law in 2002. The intention was that the monetary value of the fund capital should not decrease as a result of inflation. The inflation hedge contributed 13.6 million to the capital fund. SEK in 2004 and 26,8 million. kr in 2005. The return over the last few years has not allowed to build up any special amount of free equity. In the proposal, the Ministry points out that the development of the fund's real values is more dependent on developments in financial markets than on inflation. The Ministry considers that repealing the provisions on inflation protection would provide more flexibility and freedom of action in the event of the disposal of returns from the Fund. Thus, the need for inflation protection will be treated in the same way as other considerations that the ministry will in all cases have to consider when disposing of the surplus each year. Such other considerations are, for example: the need to strengthen free equity and to earmark parts or all of the surplus for special purposes. Both short-term and long-term considerations will be included in this assessment. The need for inflation protection will be assessed in a concrete manner by the Ministry each year. The inflation protection of the Information Society's fund is a legal commitment to the use of the annual rate of return. As a result, it is at the same time a return requirement in practice. The 2005 church meeting asked the ministry to re-assess the need for inflation protection. The Council also points out in its opinion the need for predictability and the importance that, in years of good returns, sufficient resources are allocated to the provision and buffer funds to cover the costs of church purposes this year at a lower rate of return. In the setting, the government parties join in the Government's proposal to repeal the provisions on inflation protection. The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, on their side, refer to the position of the Committee of the Reputation, where the right to property and the right to dispose of the Fund of the Information Society was discussed by a possible distinction between the State and the Church. These lots therefore oppose the amendment of the provisions of the law on the inflation protection of the Information Society's fund now. We believe it is important that issues relating to the future of the Fund and important framework conditions are seen in the context of and treated as part of the setting up of the Committee on Gender. However, an overall committee agrees on the importance of maximising the return on financial capital, in order to obtain money to be used for church purposes. Finally, I would like to add that, apart from the generally unfortunate by making frequent rematches about this, and that this case could well have waited until we got an overall review related to the treatment of the Gehöns-committee, this is not a matter that just calls for the strongest feelings.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e517	Let me first thank the Committee for a good cooperation on the matter – and regret that I have not managed to develop strong feelings for the representative Loan. We'll get back to it on a later occasion. The information service's fund is the owner of large values, both in the form of properties and money capital. At the end of the year, the values were calculated at NOK 6 billion. These values must be managed in a sound manner. One of the main tasks of the fund is to make sure that the clergy have decent priesthoods. Many of the presbyteries are peaceful and represent important cultural memories in the communities. The Fund's contribution to cultural memory protection is significant. I mentioned this in the introduction to stress that the Information Society's fund is not to be regarded as a common fund that can only be measured according to commercial or business economic criteria. There are many considerations to be taken into account in the framework of sound management of the Fund. A one-sided focus on what the fund can give of annual returns becomes too narrow. On the other hand, it would be wrong not to have continuous attention to what the fund can give of revenues. The fund shall serve church purposes, and the income from the fund shall be directly relevant to what it is possible to find room for the benefit of the Church. When the Government has made proposals to abolish the legal requirement to inflate the fund's basic capital, it is precisely in the interests of increasing the freedom of action and flexibility in the use of the fund's returns. It's a saying called "save to find". I would not like to simply say that the wording fully illustrates the matter that is being dealt with today. But it's a point that we don't have to protect the fund's values and returns in such a way that we end up constantly increasing the fund's values, without having special thought for the money needs of the Church today. By repealing the provisions on inflation protection, it is open to use a larger proportion of the returns for church purposes. In the two years that the inflation insurance has been in force, a total of 40 million. kr was ‘locked up’ as part of the fund’s basic capital. Inflation hedge is a form of hedge of capital against loss in value. Perhaps the main risk of loss for the fund is that the Information Society's fund has a large proportion of its values placed in listed securities. The history of the Fund shows that the annual revenue from the financial management has been and is important for the fund’s ability to bear its annual expenditure obligations. But there's always a risk of investing in the stock exchange. Just as we should not lock in parts of the yield for inflation protection, I believe that it is not reasonable to build up large tied reserves from the yield in order to take account of the decline in financial markets. The purpose of the fund's return is another and very important question. Many good purposes can be reckoned out. Among other things, questions have been raised by different teams whether the fund should contribute to the proper functioning of the culturally important churches. The aftermath in this area is known to be large. This and other questions about the use of the Fund are to be assessed in the Ministry, and we will come back to it on a later occasion. In the committee setting, an overall committee states that it is: ‘in agreement with the fact that the abolition of the requirement of inflation protection will give more flexibility and freedom of action in the event of disposal of the fund’. I perceive this so that the committee agrees very much on the substance with the bill. I mention that the Church meeting and the Council of Churches have also been behind the bill. In this respect, the conflict does not appear to focus primarily on the proposal in and on its own. However, when the minority opposes the bill, I believe that the minority believes that this matter should not be addressed now, but that it should be assessed in a broader context. I respect that, even though we have come to a different conclusion. I have of course respect for the views that many minor changes in sum can be a major change of principle or far-reaching significance. But in my view, it is possible to deal with a bill now without conflicting with the big whole thing. In the view of the Government, the Fund's framework conditions are not changed by lifting a legal requirement for the rebalancing of the basic capital. I am pleased with the outcome of the Committee. I hope that on a later occasion we will just have the opportunity to have an overall debate, both on the fund and on the Church's economic future, as we have recently had in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e547	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e550	I didn't intend to take a line, but there was a sentence in the Council's posts that caused a question. It goes on: what are the additional funds now released to be used for? As far as I understood the Council of State, one was in a process of thinking through and suggesting the possibility that they could be used to correct the cultural historical values represented by old churches. My question then is, When can you imagine getting such a case for treatment? Do you want to link this to the treatment of the Genius Committee, or do we get a separate case about it for treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e557	There has been a great deal of attention from both the previous and the current government and the Grand Duchy about the greedy situation in which a good number of church buildings are located. It is particularly bad to see old medieval churches in Norway that are not in the proper condition that we would want that kind of cultural memory to be. That is why we now have a loan arrangement, which the representative Lånk knows well. We also have work to do to look at the possibility that we can provide further grants for restoration, especially of the oldest churches. We'll come back to that as soon as we have any conclusions to present. But I think the first natural opportunity to take that kind of discussion will be in the 2007 budget, i.e. in dealing with the proposition that comes in October.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e562	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 352]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e578	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to five lines after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e587	It is joyful with a setting like the present one, simply because it bears the mark of very large consensus. The Progress Party has some specific comments, but in sum there is agreement within the Committee, as stated in the vote. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee for its cooperation. It is important that we have reached this consensus. Research is an activity that is particularly dependent on trust, and there are not many things to do until trust is weakened, with serious consequences also for researchers who adhere well to the rules of the game. Now it is not new that research ethical issues are given considerable attention, on the contrary; the questions were given attention during the treatment of both previous research messages. We have positive experience with the research ethics committees, and it is positive that these committees are now supplemented by a separate national sample for assessing the fairness of research. In this way, we will have a comprehensive system for the treatment of ethics and honesty in Norwegian research. It's been a long process. The starting point was an analysis of how best to deal with issues of scientific imprudence, and a joint consultation note was issued in 2004. The legislative proposal and the examination within the Committee are characterised by a thorough debate. There is a great deal of consensus, and there is also a great deal of willingness in the research sector to take these issues seriously. It is human to fail, and research sickness should not be confused with making mistakes on a scientific basis. It's allowed, and it still has to be allowed. Nor is there any reason to believe that the law we adopt today is going to put an end to any attempt to cheat in research for all the future, but it may focus on what we call the everyday sick in a tabloid language, those who are interested in taking shortcuts, those who do not check their sources well enough, and those who have too poor a basis for their conclusions. Regardless of the rules, the responsibility for ethical fairness in research will lie with the individual researcher. In addition, of course, research institutions have a maritime responsibility for the control and management of the research activities carried out by the institutions. The Committee is concerned to the extent of the important issue of the relationship between professional management and control and the consideration of academic freedom and the rights of individual scientific staff. The Committee is pleased to point out that this issue is under investigation in the so-called Underdal Committee. We look forward to the results of this work. The legal certainty of the researchers is an overriding consideration both in the proposal and in the submission, and when the Committee supports the proposal for the legalisation of the regional and national research ethics committees, it is not least because the legal certainty of the researchers is best safeguarded by this solution. Corresponding arguments became essential for assessing whether or not the Review Committee should be legalised. While there are arguments for choosing a solution where the sample is based on a private legal basis, the Committee agrees that the need for legal certainty and for proper and safe procedures speaks for legislative purposes. In the same direction, consideration is also given to the fact that increased international cooperation on so-called ‘researcher's yoke’ requires clearly defined legislation also in Norway. The Committee supports the Government's proposal for a law, but also addresses some issues, partly as clarifications of the legal text and partly as concerns further work. On the one hand, it deals with the question of foreign members in the selections in order to increase their independence, and on the other hand, it deals with the general rule that the documents in the case are exempt from public disclosure as long as the matter is pending and no final opinion is available in the case. The Committee is concerned that the general rule should not prevent publication in certain cases where this is appropriate for the interests of the parties involved in the case. We also raise the question of whether the Review Committee and its Secretariat should participate in the prevention work related to scientific dishonesty and not least whether major student projects should be covered by law. As I said, there is a broad dissension about the government's proposal for law. There is no doubt that this law will be an important tool in further work to ensure that ethical assessments are constantly given sufficient space and emphasis in all Norwegian research.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e613	It has brought together a broad set-up within the Committee. This is due to thorough preparation and good work by the rapporteur. There has been a great deal of consensus about this with samples to reveal possible juxtaposition. But the interesting discussion about ethics in research in the broad sense must go further. Here the environments themselves have a big, big task. After Christmas we revealed a research report where it was the falsification of empirical material. After all, this is going to be the exception, and it's precisely the grey zones, the shortcuts, that you draw for quick conclusions, which are going to be the main task of the sample. Some footnotes may not provide sufficient basis for conclusion. You pick a coating that only goes in one direction, or you have coatings that are not based on scientific material. The question of ethics in research is therefore about making research results verifiable – that it should be possible for others to check whether the conclusion is correct. Here the environments themselves have to do a job. Everyone is basically ethically conscious. There are very few people, including scientists, who believe that they themselves do not have good ethics. But the difficult question is how to make ethics operational in a researcher's everyday life. A researcher's everyday life is largely characterized by solitude. Creating an environment, making ethics operational on a daily basis, is a major challenge that the environment itself has to work with. Some people say that the Internet makes it easier to cheat. It is well possible that this is the case for school assignments, perhaps also for some student tasks. But at the same time, I would like to believe that when we make research reports available, it is easier for others to check whether this is a direct copy, or whether they have falsified the material used in a research report. In the past, it might have been easier to copy a research report that was buried in a French library. Now most of it is published online – that is, it's harder. The discussion on ethics is also about having free research. It's very important that we have a free research that is not based on commercial interests. The business community is doing a very important job of promoting research. Many commercial research actors are absolutely necessary for us to develop good research in Norway. But we can't have a society where it's just the commercial interests that govern what we're going to research. This is not least the case in medical research, where we have seen that medical researchers have easier money to obtain than those who are researching preventive health work or the quality of life. Therefore, it is important that we have a free research that is not based on researchers necessarily making money. From a political point of view, we feel that we have done our part of the job. Prevention needs to take even more responsibility for research environments. I'm sure the research environments are going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e628	This is one thing that fortunately is little political disagreement about. I want to give the case rapporteur credit for doing a very good job. In general, Norwegian research activities are at a high ethical level. There has been a lot of focus on research ethics for many years. This type of activity is generally dependent on the existence of a basic trust between individual researchers, institutions and the source of funding. In general, this has worked well. But there are naturally enough exceptions. The rule adopted unanimously today is, to a large extent, the legalisation of established systems. Legislation itself gives greater legitimacy to the important ethical work of research. It is necessary to show that this issue is highly focused and high on the political agenda. The progress party has some additional dissenting comments in the configuration. It is primarily about the importance of taking the international research perspective into account. In the opinion of the Progress Party, the Ministry has taken too little account of the fact that research activities today are often international projects, and specific requirements will be imposed on the control process and dialogue with the control systems of other countries. We also recognise that it can be challenging to find a clear definition of where the limit of dishonesty goes. However, there will be a clear advantage to the ability to find as clear a definition as possible, so that the researchers who come into the light of the investigation know what they have to do with, since the consequences of the light of the investigations can be quite dramatic. That is also the reason why it has been important for the Progress Party to submit comments that the investigation is essentially to be excluded from disclosure during the investigation itself, but that, in certain cases, an individual must be able to make public information on behalf of the parties involved in the case. We hope that the law that is unanimously passed here today will be used to the lowest extent possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e641	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is immediately out. The President has been given the signal that it is possible that we can conclude the odelsting meeting in half an hour. The President will therefore propose that we continue beyond the regulatory period until the current map is completed and ask whether it is approved by the representatives present. It is also a conference with the Chairman of the Committee and with the Council of State. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e648	We note that there is a broad consensus that there is a close link between research and ethics. In many cases, research raises important ethical questions and leads us to some difficult choices. The Christian People's Party has suggested that research ethics and ethical issues in general need to be more focused on higher education, including the training of researchers and research environments. We have also made proposals in the Grand Duchy in line with this. In 1999, the then State Council, Lilletun, presented the Research Communication «Research in a Time apart». At that time it was also pointed out that it is necessary to have an apparatus for the treatment of dishonesty in research. The communication underlined other highly ethical research issues. Research is conducted under a considerable degree of freedom and trust, and thus also a significant degree of responsibility for each researcher. That's the way it has to be. At the same time, researchers also have a separate ethical responsibility and responsibility to contribute to public participation in the considerations taken. The need for transparency and the influence of society on research must be taken into account, while at the same time ensuring the need for researchers to have a significant degree of freedom in their work. This is important in order to legitimise research and provide opportunities for dialogue and acceptance in society as a whole. The various institutions should be active drivers of an internal debate in the research communities. At the same time, it is important that this debate not only takes place in an internal vacuum but is the subject of an open debate in society. For this reason, the research ethics committees should also turn more towards the public. Research-setical reflection is important and necessary. From the point of view of society, this is also positive because it contributes to the quality assurance of research and the results of research. Furthermore, a dialogue between research and society on values can in the longer term help to give direction to research. The aim must always be to produce knowledge in a way and with a result that society can recognize. When society has as its objective a greater share of society's resources in research, it is because it is important for society. Research is an important driver of social development. This calls for future-oriented analyses and discussions on the impact of research and technology. An informed and interested public opinion is therefore a prerequisite for such a wide-ranging debate. A greater interface and greater transparency between the scientific community and the wider community must be created. Open debate, consultation and enhanced dissemination of research are important tools to achieve this. Ethical reflection on the production of research-based knowledge will be a good view of researchers. Ethical reflection gives research legitimacy and an opportunity for dialogue and acceptance. If these aspects of research are to be given greater focus, it will require continued strong efforts in training, information and debate-making activities. Both the research institutions themselves, the national and regional research ethics committees, the Research Council, the Technology Council and the Biotechnology Study are responsible for this. In addition, society will be less prone to direct control and control if it is confident that researchers themselves have the will and ability to reflect research ethics and to influence reflection on behaviour in research. Ethical reflection is therefore linked to the freedom of research from control and control.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e663	Today we are discussing the bill on ethics and honesty in research. Fortunately, there is a great deal of consensus in the committee on this legislative proposal. It has also been made clear in the submissions that we have heard here today. Already in the 1999 Research Communication, the Ministry refers to the need to have a national apparatus to deal with scientific dishonesty in all disciplines. The question has been examined in due course. Reference may also be made to the 2005 Research Communication and to the fact that international conventions and the legal certainty of researchers have made it necessary to assess the legalisation of the regional committees for medical research ethics. As early as 2004, a joint consultation note was issued on the law-enforcement of ethics committees and selections of dishonesty. The legislative proposal, which is to be voted on today, is essentially forwarding the proposals of that consultation note. Of course, research must be carried out to a great extent in terms of trust and freedom; it must be the responsibility of each researcher. At the same time, there is reason to stress that research institutions have a separate responsibility for control and management. There is agreement between the Government and an overall committee that it is appropriate to pool the provisions on the regional and national ethics committee system and the provisions on a national apparatus for dealing with matters of scientific dishonesty in the same law. Provision is made for a flexible framework law that can be amended as experience emerges. The legislative proposal meets the need to ensure a national system to meet the needs of society for public and private research to be carried out in accordance with common ethical standards. There are some arguments to oppose the legalisation of regional and national research ethics committees, but most consultancies support legal regulation. Finally, a quotation from the letter of consultation of the Research Association to the Committee on this matter: ‘The Board of Governors of the Research Association has examined the present odelstingsproposition and is very pleased that the Ministry of Knowledge, on the basis of the 2004 proposal, has drawn up a legislative proposal which has been forwarded to the Stortinget. The legislative proposal is well and balanced in the sense that trust in the ability and willingness of researchers and research communities to comply with general ethical standards and accepted scientific practice and methodology is a horizontal feature.» And on the other hand, ‘The Association supports the establishment of a national sample for the examination of unfair research.’ This is clearly a speech. The centre party, of course, supports this bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e686	There must be every reason to rejoice, not only because the committee leader said that there was a meeting in the committee, but also because the government has done a solid job and made a bill that has been well received by them. That means that the balance has been found between the trust of the many and the ability to capture those who will not follow what we can define as freedom under responsibility. The Committee stands for an excellent presentation by the chairperson of the Committee, and it is also expressed in writing. The left has no reason to underline it further, except for a few-three small points. When the committee has chosen to call the selection for ‘checking honesty’, it is because we assume that honesty is the main norm in the work we are facing and not the exception. When the Committee has made it clear that the basic point of this work is that we must have all aspects of ethics in all academic careers from the start, it is to stress that if we do not have the ethical ballast, some of the basics are failing in order to succeed in both the Government's proposal and the Committee's agreement to the proposal. The Committee has made an emphasis on this point. I have to admit that when it happened, it was characterized by a central topic at the NOCUT conference, where NOCUT raised the question – which I for my part had not had the imagination to imagine until then – that we could face opportunities for corruption and cheating in connection with the internationalisation of research and the Bologna process. NOCUT had chosen to invite the International Transparency Department to present this. It was a thoughtful post that was made. It wasn't a massive conclusion, but it was too thoughtful. When the Committee has attached a note to this relationship, it is in order that the same contemplation as an overall Norwegian, academic all-academic meeting – to use that expression – should also be brought to Trondheim, so that the necessary steps can be taken, not because we see that this is the most menacing now, but there is reason to follow and be considerate. With these little notes, it's a pleasure to be on such a broad uprising. I think it is nice to be able to say something positive to the Council of State in order to have presented a good case, and it is also nice to share with colleagues in the committee that we have agreed to make a case that is solid, under the slogan: Freedom under responsibility!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e699	The purpose of the law on today’s Odelstinget is to ensure that we have a system in Norway to prevent and deal with cases of unethical and unfair research. For many years we have had a system of regional committees for medical research ethics and national research ethics committees. Now the government has proposed this system legally, while complementing it with a separate national sample to investigate cases where there is a suspicion of fraud. This will give us an overall committee system covering all disciplines, which can work together in close and close cooperation. The proposals in the proposition have received a great deal of support in the setting, and I am very pleased about that. It is in line with the basic principles, namely that we should have a framework of independent committees and committees which inform, inform and create debate on research ethics, while at the same time being able to deal with specific issues. The bodies proposed by the new law shall be administrative bodies and shall deal with matters in accordance with administrative and public law. With this we get a clearer anchoring of the regional committees for medical research ethics, which we are required to have through various international conventions. We also get legislation that is more in line with the other Nordic countries, since both Denmark and Sweden have legislated their regional committee systems. We also have a clearer foundation for the three national research ethics committees which, over the 15 years they have existed, have carried out a major and important prevention work. The Norwegian national committee system was unique for a long time and has inspired other countries to create similar systems. As there is a close link between research ethics and research ethics, the Government has taken steps to ensure that national committees are also involved in the prevention of dishonesty. This, of course, must be done in close cooperation with the new sample. The government has chosen to take as a principle the starting point that research should take place in freedom under responsibility. The government has therefore not wanted to tie the considerable degree of freedom and trust under which researchers work. In most cases, it turns out that they are worthy of this trust. But sometimes it will happen that scientists too are tempted to take shortcuts or commit illegalities, as is happening in all other areas of society. A study carried out for approx. 10 years ago, fraud in research not only takes place in other countries but also takes place in Norway. In addition, a specific case that is still under investigation has shown that suspicions of dishonesty can in itself lead to a weakening of confidence in Norwegian research. The government believes that the trust of society is a fundamental prerequisite for research. Unethical and unfair research must therefore be taken very seriously. A separate national sample that can deal with major cases of dishonesty could contribute to this. At the same time, the legal certainty of researchers must be a fundamental element in dealing with any cases that may arise. The law alone will not prevent unfair research from taking place, but building up a good system of research ethics, prevention of dishonesty and dealing with dishonesty will in the long term help raise awareness of these issues in the research community, and hopefully contribute to fewer cases of dishonesty. The government underlines that research institutions have the tools they need to prevent, prevent and punish cases of fraud. As far as prevention is concerned, awareness of individual researchers’ responsibilities and opportunities for open discussions on difficult issues are important elements. In particular, universities and universities have a great responsibility to teach students what is good scientific practice. Nor has the government proposed its own criminal provisions against scientific dishonesty, as the Committee has also agreed. The Committee's broad support for the aims, principles and definitions of the proposal provides a very good basis for moving forward, and I thank the Committee for the many good words that have also emerged from this debate. Of course, I will follow up on the Committee's opinions and requests in the further work, and I will give the Storting feedback as soon as possible on the points for which it has been specifically asked to follow up. On this basis, the Ministry will be able to include the necessary work to develop regulations so that the new sample can be put in place as quickly as possible. Finally, let me just add that I have noticed that the committee has asked for a change in the name of the sample. We take note of that, of course, even though I find it difficult for a sample to be called ‘checking honesty’. Then maybe you should call it research. Our starting point was that we should have a common name, and the Review Committee as an oral mention of this, is perhaps what is the common denominator.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e720	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 352]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e736	There is reason to stress that the Committee is united on all the essential solutions here, subject to the fact that the Progress Party has found the right to promote its principle of unit-price financing in the context of training and that they have a well-known position towards the chapter on Sami training. However, with regard to what has been the main theme and which has led the Ministry to promote the law, the Committee is united. Firstly, the Committee is grouped together as regards the fact that the responsibility for training when you are in an institution — whether it is a health institution, a drug institution or child protection — should lie in the county or in the place where the institution is, not in the municipality of residence. We agree on this. We are also pleased that the Ministry clearly states – as we also support – that there should be no difference here between whether the institution is private or public. We know, of course, that most drug institutions are run by non-profit institutions, on behalf of the public, so that in many ways the law changes help to clean up a number of situations. At the same time, the Department has stressed the need to review what is happening so that no one is going to get in trouble economically or administratively. The Committee has chosen to say that we consider that no institution referred to or affected by the proposition should be financially or administratively harmed as a result of the amendment of the law. The reason we're saying that is because we've received some signals along the way, partly from the rush field, which we've caught up with, and which I'm coming back to. I would also like to add, as the rapporteur, that we have received a rather heavy comment from Sunnaas Hospital, which I would particularly like to ask the Department to look at, so that there is no risk of a good intention leading to an administrative squeeze, which I do not think anyone would have intended to happen. That is the background to these comments made by the Committee. As far as other matters are concerned, the Committee has said that we believe that, even if the financial responsibility lies with the institution, it should not, of course, abolish the follow-up responsibility of the actual municipality of residence to see the context of a life course, whether for a child or for a drug addict. It must be that it is a responsibility that follows the individual, so that one does not get a discharge. Of course, we do not feel that the department has suggested that this should be the case, but we stress that this administrative responsibility does not change. Administrative responsibilities in cross-debate administrative cooperation depend on it, and it is a special task to ensure it. Then I will briefly mention two matters that the Committee has raised in particular, in addition to the proposition, but not in contrast to its spirit. Firstly, the fact that several addicts in institutions have formally completed primary school education, but do not have the necessary qualifications to progress. Similarly, drug addicts who have been formally educated in higher education may be in the same situation. The Committee would then ask the Ministry to promote initiatives to ensure that they have a right to primary and secondary education, respectively, regardless of whether they have formally fulfilled their right to training. It's because we really don't want these people to get in a jam, but we want them to get their lives straight. At the same time, we ask the Ministry to consider how best to guarantee drug addicts a right to secondary education during and after completion of treatment in institutions mentioned in the Proposition, even if these users have not used their right to apply for outsourcing before the age of 24. When we say this, it's because people who get addicted to drugs can miss something on the way, and we want them to get a chance number. 2, either it concerns one or the other of the two relationships that I have now mentioned. The Committee has found it appropriate to stress this, and these are matters which have also been addressed to the Committee of the Treatment Institutions concerned and to which we have listened during this committee discussion. Then we stress, as is natural, when we have the major NAV reform to be introduced, that we take it for granted that the training responsibility associated with the rehabilitation institutions and other rehabilitation institutions is seen in the context of what is going to happen in the new NAV offices, and that there will be binding cooperation between these bodies and the institutions that have training and rehabilitation responsibilities at both local and regional level. With these comments, I find on behalf of an overall committee that the government has received approval for the course they are adding. We trust that the Government will manage the notes we have given, and the assignments they have basically given themselves, and that they will come back to in connection with the budget for next year. On that basis, I recommend the legislative proposal submitted by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e755	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur for a good report and a good job in this process. The Progress Party believes, as the representative of Dørum explained, that a State funding system for the training of patients in social or medical institutions will be the best. It is linked to the party’s starting point on state price financing throughout the education cycle. With a single-cost financing system, this whole issue would have been solved in an elegant way, and the Progress Party is therefore primarily promoting a proposal that the Government return to the Stortinget with the necessary legislative proposals to ensure such a scheme. Of course, that proposal will not be contested here in Odelstinget today. The Stortinget will be sent for further treatment. In view of the fact that there will be no treatment of the main position of the Advance Party, we will now substantiately accept the suspension as regards sections 13 to 2 and 13 to 3 (a). This is primarily because today’s situation is unsustainable and places individual patients and users in a very difficult and often unexplained situation. The legislative proposal will at least clear up a number of ambiguities and give a simpler and more straightforward line of responsibility. However, I would like to make it clear that the Progress Party believes there should be two levels of government in Norway: municipalities and counties. It is unfortunate to assign new tasks to the county council, and we will strongly warn against it on a general basis. However, the case in this particular case is that the county already has a large proportion of this responsibility, and that this amendment of the law results in a clean-up and, in fact, a marginal increase in the task of the county. In addition, the Progress Party will hope, of course, that our proposal will be adopted by the Stortinge later in the year, and that today's decision will be of a very temporary nature. Otherwise, I would like to mention the proposal to remove Chapter 6 of the Training Act, as the Advance Party considers this type of training inappropriate. We want to give equal training to everyone regardless of ethnicity.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e766	The representative Anders Anundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 353]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e776	Then Odelstinget will vote in case No. 1 to 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e784	During the debate, the representative Karin S. Woldseth put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to file a case for a change in laws and regulations so that it becomes up to the individual couple how they will distribute the maternity leave between themselves.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e978	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e991	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The party of progress has also announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e1005	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e1040	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e1050	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e1058	During the debate, the representative Laila Davøy put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal for a law amending Section 9 of the Abortion Act so that the woman’s ability to take care of the child as well as the availability of the woman’s disease shall not be relevant when assessing the termination of pregnancy.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e1122	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e1132	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e1140	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Laila Davøy on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 2, from Vigdis Giltun on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e1224	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e1479	Here the Progress Party has an aberrant proposal. That is proposal No. 2, which reads: ‘In Law No 2 of July 1999 62 on the establishment and implementation of mental health protection, Section 3-3, first paragraph, 3. (b) shall be replaced by the following:(b) constitutes a potential risk to the life or health of oneself or others.»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e1926	The Progress Party has announced that they will vote against this paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e2052	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e2062	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e2099	The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e2112	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e2126	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e2197	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e2207	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e2215	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from the representative Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e2252	The vote will be taken here, as an alternative, between the vote and proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Teaching Act Chapter 6 Samic training is repealed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e2330	The party has announced that they will support the suspension subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e2341	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e2351	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-08-lower.ana.ud562e2362	There is no record.
