ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e22	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Left-wing Group to the representative of Vera Lyskleatt from 29 November until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Bjørg-Irene Östrem, shall be called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e40	The Bjørg-Irene Østrem is present and will take a seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e57	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Sylvia Brustadsta Council Heidi Grande Røsstaatsråde Terje Riis-Johansen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We will then begin with the first main questions from the representative, Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e76	During these days, we receive very serious concerns from health businesses outside the country. I want to ask the Minister of Health and Health questions related to the hospital economy, not least about all the cutting proposals that are now coming, which are obviously about to go beyond patient treatment. We see reports from Health Nord-Trøndelag, who wants temporary shelter and fewer doctors, St. Olavs Hospital will remove a number of annual works, the Rikshospitalet-Radium Hospital HF believes that development is inhibited, Hospital Buskerud has problems, Health Mid-Norway has major problems. In addition, we have now seen that, among other things. Health Sunnmøre estimates to lay down both the rehabilitation department at the hospital in Ålesund and Mork Rehabilitation Centre. One is now also considering putting the bed post in the cancer ward. This must clearly be contrary to what is stated in the budget proposal, that the aim is to continue patient treatment to the next year at the same level as one had at the end of the first quarter of 2006. Furthermore, there is reason to recall the letter also received by the Minister of Health from the North Norway Medical Association, which states that longer waiting times are now feared for patients, increased and cost-effective leakages of patients out of the country, marked poorer student education and poorer working environment for employees. My question is: does the Council of State not see the major problems for patients in Norway as a result of the pressured economy, that this could lead to longer queues and waiting lists and thus also to increased sick leave and increased expenditure for that post? What will the Council of State do here for Norwegian patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e89	Firstly, it is important for me to say that all patients throughout the country should be guaranteed good and equivalent treatment. Then, as the representative Nesvik says, there are now budget rounds in all regional health companies and in all the hospitals of the country. It also means that a good part of the proposals that are now on the table, probably will not be adopted, so I will at least wait until I see the decisions around in the boards before I finally conclude. There is no doubt that there are some challenges to our hospitals in terms of economics. It's nothing new. This has been the case for many years – and for many years before we took over. But it is also important for me to say that we have never treated as many patients in this country as we do now. We have never spent as much money on Norwegian health care as we do now. $75 billion a year is a staggering amount of money. And we're going to use more, because it's necessary that we in one of the richest countries in the world can offer patients across the country good treatment, employ technology and use drugs that are important. Then it is that the budget that this government has now put on the table, and that the Storting is now dealing with, means that next year – if it is adopted – we will be able to deal with 35,000 more patients than was foreseen in the Bondevik government's draft budget. I follow the situation very closely. I have called the leaders of all the regional health companies to a meeting in December. Then we know more about what decisions have actually been made, and then we get to take it from there.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e100	As far as the undersigned is aware, the budget for 2006 is not the budget of the Bondevik Government. It was actually the Stoltenberg government that promoted it in the Storting, and it was adopted under that government, although it was initially made by the Bondevik government. So it's also Stoltenberg's budget that works in the current year. In connection with the fact that we just have the problems we now have in health companies, and at the same time say that we should have the same patient treatment next year, I would like to ask about all the concerns that come from regional health companies, as they are not real. Is it not the case that a reduction in patient treatment, for example, is now being considered? in the health of the west, in the health of the north, and in the health of the middle of the north, as it was warned? Or is that how we can get the impression in the media, that those who run these health businesses are not inferior – if that's right what the Council of State says? But talk about balance. In the past, the Council of State has pointed out that health establishments are required to balance their balance in the current year. My question to the Council of State is, how is it? Are they in balance at New Year's, or are they out of control?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e110	So the first thing this government did when we took over was to add more money to the hospitals for the current year. This meant that we could treat more patients than was foreseen in the draft budget of the Bondevik government. Then we've been treating even more patients in the current year, and this high activity we're continuing for next year. I believe that through the historically high draft budget this government has put on the table for next year, we have the full opportunity to do so. In our healthcare system, there are unusually many good people who are doing a great job. But it's also true that not all the country's hospitals are just as well run down. Then it is very important, also in order to give priority to those who need the most help first, that there is good financial control. Unfortunately, it is not in all health businesses. That's what I'm working on trying to get control of. I hope that it is in everyone's interest that when we spend as much money as we do in this important area, it is also important that this money goes first and foremost to those who need it most. It's a proper prioritization of the funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e117	The President will allow four follow-up questions – first Sonja Irene Sjøli.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e120	More to those who need it the most, said the Minister of Health. But some of the health budgets have the impression that it is smaller for those who have the least in the past, and those who need it the most. Then I think especially of those addicts who need treatment. Poor 50 million. It is proposed to increase drug treatment for 2007. According to the Council of Rusfeld, this is the worst budget for drug addicts in eight years. While the Bondevik government doubled the capacity of medically assisted rehabilitation, Brustad proposes to create only 100 new sites. With such low ambitions it will take 50 years to phase out the queues, so that the addicts can receive treatment. Now people die waiting in line. I wonder what's the reason that the red-green government has done least for those who are the worst in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e129	First, I want to distance myself from the claim that this government is doing the least for those who need it the most – rather the opposite. We can refer that to whether we're talking about psychiatry or about alcohol, because it's not that you can just look at the means that are involved in the extra 50 million. kr on top. It must also be compared with the money given to specialist health services, i.e. to hospitals, where some people with drug problems also receive treatment, and not least to the historically high rate of community economics. In contrast to the government in which Sonja Irene Sjøli’s party belonged, this government has invested significantly more money both in the local economy and in the specialist health service, and on top of that, we have a commitment in relation to the use of drugs for specific measures, for example: LAR. I believe that this government has nothing to be ashamed of, but we stress: this is a start, because we are going to have an obliging escalating plan for how we should do in an even better way to help those who need it the most. It is obvious that more needs to be done within the window.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e138	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e142	It is true that today health businesses are unable to provide patients with drug dependence with a good enough range of services. Despite the fact that this patient group is to be defined as rights spaces, many standing months in line for treatment. After that long time both the motivation and the hope for help have failed. Why can health firms not be required to use private or non-profit drug institutions with free capacity for space in hospitals, as proposed by the Christian People's Party in the budget setting? This is my question. It must be far better than that patients get sicker and perhaps give up in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e149	Yes, I fully agree with the representative Davøy that the examples we have of people waiting for months for treatment are not a good situation. Now, for the first time, we've seen the waiting time for this group of patients as well, and that makes us see that there are variations between the regions. Then it is important for me to say that this patient group is also covered by the Patient Rights Act. This means that if they do not receive treatment within a given period, they are entitled to receive treatment elsewhere in Norway. Of course, both private institutions and institutions run by NPISHs today are also used by this group. I don't mind that we also do it in the future, because the most important thing is that we manage to secure the patient group treatment, so they don't wait too long. That is why we have not banned regions from cooperating with private and non-profit institutions when appropriate and necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e156	Gunvald Ludvigsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e159	In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Red-Green Government promised that no local hospital should be closed down and that a decentralised hospital supply should be maintained, including: the proximity to acute function and the provision of food shall be ensured. Then we see in the Nation last week – Monday – that several maternity wards in local hospitals should be kept closed for Christmas and New Year's Eve. The same thing might happen during other holidays and maybe during the summer months. The closing argument is that one should save money. My simple question to the Council of State is as follows: How much of the calendar year does the Soria Moria declaration apply?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e166	Obviously, it applies to the whole year. Now it is nothing new that some maternity wards are closed around Christmastime and during summertime. It has happened before – before this government took over. What we have clearly said in the Soria Moria statement is: no local hospital should be closed, and there should be close proximity to emergency and food supply. This means that the hospitals and healthcare companies that are now thinking, or have decided, to close down at Christmas times must inform birthers about their offers. They must be guaranteed sound alternative offers. If that doesn't happen, you can't shut down maternity wards around Christmastime. I see that there is a special debate related to the food supply and the emergency function around our local hospitals. That is why I have now reduced a wide-ranging selection to give the setting of how the local hospitals should be, what the content should be, and it comes with a setting for me around March. I will of course also orientate the Storting in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e177	I want to ask the Council a follow-up question. Good governance, as the council said – I expect her to aim for Health East – also leads to painful cuts. In the Health East there are corridor Asiates, in the Eastfold it is warned, or done, large subcarcut, and 20 pst. of the rehabilitation offer in the Health East has been cut in the last year. This is serious, and especially serious when you go to a Christmas feast and you know that 1,500 older people in this country are in hospital pending hospitalization. Norway lacks 12,000 sick places — if we are to be at the same level as Sweden. This is why many older people are not allowed to come home to a hospital place in their home municipality, where they should be given a good care when they come out of the hospital. The only government that has now announced is a grant to the municipalities in 2008. There will be no more sick homes in the next two to three years. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the elderly who are in hospital are given a hospitalized place when they come home, and that the elderly who are at home awaiting hospitalization are given it quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e186	Firstly, this government has granted significantly more money to municipalities both in the current year and in the draft budget next year. It is an important prerequisite for providing good care to the elderly and others who need it in the municipalities. Then from 2008 we have proposed a new investment grant. Construction of new nursing homes, new nursing homes requiring the care and care of the lucky day – for older and younger users, including under 67 years of age – and the construction of short-term places in nursing homes shall be undertaken. That's where we have a special challenge. When, in particular, older people have been to a hospital and are going back to the municipality, there is often not enough interaction between hospitals and municipalities. The elderly often do not have a proper place to be while they are. This grant means that we should be able to pay for it together with a better local economy. We're also prepared to find a transitional arrangement for next year, so we're going to try to do what we can to help minimise the problems for those we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e195	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e198	My question also goes to the Minister of Health and Care. The most fundamental principle in Norwegian health legislation is the right to necessary health care. It includes the right to have a general practitioner to seek out if necessary. It includes the right to the necessary treatment in the specialist health service, if necessary. I assume that the Council of State will agree with me that it also includes the necessary rehabilitation and training, so that you will be able to master everyday life, whether you are young or old. To all intents and purposes, the Soria Moria Government has said that it will ‘ensure rehabilitation and training to all those who need it’. Now we all know that we are very far from that situation in today's Norway. Not only are many people who do not receive an offer for rehabilitation and training, but the number of those who do not receive an offer is increasing. Data from the Central Statistical Office show that from last year to this year there has been a 16pst decrease. for the provision of accommodation in training and rehabilitation facilities. In the previous main question, a look-up at the Sunnmørspost yesterday showed that a rehabilitation institution in More and Romesdal is about to be closed because the health care company does not have the economy to continue it. What will the Council of State do? I note that in the draft budget she has submitted, there is no indication of an increase in the amount of rehabilitating at all, with one single exception, namely the measure that emerged as a result of the negotiations with the social partners on the sick pay scheme. However, that measure covers only workers. It does not include those who are too young or those who are too old to be workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e213	I fully agree with the representative for Wage that we have challenges in terms of rehabilitation. We can't solve everything in one year. But we're in the process, and it's actually so that it's more in the field of rehabilitation for next year. This government believes that we must ensure it for everyone. We believe it is essential that people be able to recover or maintain their function. We're now working on our own strategy for rehabilitation, which we're going to present just over Christmas. We have a good dialogue with user organisations in this work. I am of the opinion that we need more rehabilitation institutions in Norway and not less. It is also my ambition to work in this important area, while I believe that there is a need to go through some of the schemes that concern, for example. the age limits relating to the equipment to which it should have access, the time taken to obtain a car, if necessary. There are a number of such schemes that this government is now going through, and where there are no satisfactory solutions either.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e220	Thanks for the answer. I assume that when the Council of State says that we need more and not fewer institutions, it would be wise to start by saving the institutions we have from being closed down. I assume that the Council of State will then ensure that it does. The situation today is that a number of privately run training and rehabilitation institutions are constantly threatened with closure because of the ideologically motivated policy of the new government, that money should not be spent on buying places in private institutions. This has led, among other things, to: by Godthaab, in Akershus, which is one of the most well-run institutions of its kind today, there are more and more elderly people who pay the stay themselves because they do not want to enter into agreements with these institutions. Then we are about to get a class-shared offer for rehabilitation as well. I assume the Council of State doesn't want to do that. But if we can agree that it's a good idea to start by securing the institutions we have, at least we've come a little bit on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e234	I am of the opinion that it is wrong when the representative Wohnning says that we have a resistance to everything that tastes of private solutions. That's wrong. We've said to limit it. That doesn't mean it's a ban. We also have a close dialogue with organisations in this area, because I believe that in many areas – including rehabilitation – the private sector has an important role to play and is a good complement to the public sector. But we have to make sure that we have it in such a form that it doesn't become a class division, and that's what we're actually working with. So I'm concerned that in this area too we have to have quality. I also hope that the right and the representative of the pay are concerned about that. We cannot maintain rehabilitation institutions that are not of good quality. We've seen some examples where people have been in institutions for weeks, but where there's been little practice. I can't! Then you have to go through the quality. We have proposed, both for the current year and for next year, a grant to be able to look at which rehabilitation institutions are of good quality, but we have not put any ban on private and non-private NPISHs.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e241	The President will allow four follow-up questions – first Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e244	State council failed to answer the representative's first question: Is rehabilitation covered by the right to health care and thus also covered by the Patient Rights Act? I think it's important that we get a clarification on this. It will also, of course, give a clear governance signal to health businesses in the area of rehabilitation. We see that, among other things, LHL's institution at Røros is running at 60 pst. capacity because they do not have any more agreement with the healthcare provider. It is also an institution that has invested in quality but is not paid for quality. Let's take Health Sunn Butter. It is now estimated to lay down the rehabilitation department at the hospital in Ålesund, while assessing the closure of Mork Rehabilitation Centre. State councils should respond to the question of whether rehabilitation is covered by the right to health care and thus also covered by the Patient Rights Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e251	The answer to that is yes. That's it, of course. People in need of rehabilitation have equal rights under the Patient Rights Act to other patients. That's what it should be, and that's what it should be. I agree with the representative Nesvik that there is no good situation for example. institutions like LHLs on Røros, which I fully agree with are of good quality, are not being exploited well enough. I have a dialogue with health companies about this. But as I also know, there is a challenging situation, for various reasons, in Health Mid-Norway in particular. I'm honestly and sincerely concerned that we need to give everyone who needs it, good-quality rehabilitation, so that they can recover or maintain functions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e258	Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e261	NAV figures show that it takes more than two years for an employee to be ill-appointed until the implementation of guidance measures. Much of the waiting time is due to the late start of rehabilitation. This group rarely has the economy to buy its own rehabilitation site. We know that the longer the individual is away from work, the harder it is to get back to work. Therefore, it is unsustainable that so many have to wait so long for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. The Christian People's Party wants to legislate for the right to necessary rehabilitation, because we see that many patients with great needs do not receive such an offer. What action does the Council of State think is necessary to make healthcare an effective partner in the fight against exclusion from work and a high level of sick leave?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e270	I think there are more answers to that question. The representative raises an important issue around the issue of sick leave. There we have one answer through the work that is now being done with the parties in connection with the sick pay. Much of that will of course also concern the health care system in a broad sense. For my part, I have called all the managers of the health care companies to a meeting in December where the sick leave is on the agenda. Here I see that there are actually some good examples. Last week I visited the Hospital Telemark, otherwise a hospital with a surplus, where the employees do not run off, but work hard, and work a lot. They're good at treating more patients, and sick leave goes down. It's very positive. There are good models here, and it's clear that you can learn something from each other. To the question of whether it should be necessary to legislate for the right to rehabilitation: I believe that it is really unnecessary, because these patients are already covered by the Patient Rights Act. I can't quite see what the nuances are between the two things. But of course, we need to have more rehabilitation, not less.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e279	Gunvald Ludvigsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e282	In the 2007 state budget, a total of NOK 1,046 000 has been paid for rehabilitation. However, the licensorship is very different between health firms — e.g. Health West only gets 68 million. kr, or 6,5 pst. of the total amount, while above 20 pst. by the population of Norway cage in the area of Health West. In practice, this is a strong bias. A distribution by population would have given e.g. Health West nearly 130 million. kr more. Recognising that rehabilitation is best done in the community, my question is: does the Council of State have a timetable for the end of the uri-mal distribution?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e287	We've probably suggested slightly higher numbers than what Ludvigsen now suggested for next year, but that's not the main point. The main point is that I am fully aware that there is a division of regions in this area. That's the background for us now putting down a separate sample that's going to go through this in connection with rehabilitation. We also set down a new sample for hospital services in general, which will also look into whether the distribution between the different regions is good. This is not something we're going to spend a lot of time on. I can't say an exact date today, but we're going to start that work very soon. And then we'll see how fast we can get to good results. I don't think that's a point, for example. to take from the East of Health and give to the West of Health, for we need more rehabilitation throughout the country, not less.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e292	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e296	After listening to all the words from the Minister of Health, I have to ask some very specific questions that I think it would have been nice to get some concrete answers to. So while she has been a health minister, the use of rehabilitation institutions has decreased by 16 pst. So there are many people who don't get help to cope with their everyday lives in a dignified way, but who end up sitting in their own homes with relative mobility because they haven't been trained afterwards. It's been 21 pst. reductions in private rehabilitation institutions. Does the Council of State consider that, after instructing health firms to limit the use of private services, and when the area of rehabilitation is most dominated by private ones, this instruction goes primarily beyond rehabilitation in Norway? That's why the right has proposed 500 million. kr more, with the main emphasis on rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e305	In the name of honesty – I would appreciate it if the Right was a little more honest in this case. In fact, it was the government of which the representative Solberg himself was part, who suggested – before we entered the chair – that rehabilitation should be transferred to health companies, as well as the sum that was on the table. This government has actually allocated more money to hospitals, and thus also to rehabilitation, than the government that Erna Solberg was part of. But if we take away the words that Solberg's representative is concerned about, maybe we can look forward. It is right that we have told regional health companies that they should limit the use of private commercial, but not non-profit, organisations. But that doesn't mean there's any prohibition, and that doesn't mean we're not going to cooperate with private people. I would like to reiterate that we have close cooperation with their organisations and not least with user organisations, for example. LHL, which I think is doing an unusually good job in this area. The goal is to get more and not less rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e312	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e315	My question also goes to the Minister of Health and Care. It is with increasing concern that I await the Government's proposal to amend the Biotechnology Act. With the law in hand you'll probably be able to choose away germinal lives that society doesn't think should have the right of life. For the right to life is not enshrined in Norwegian law, but the right to take away a viable life is regulated. I fear a development in our country, as in Denmark, where so to speak, everyone with Down's syndrome today is being removed. It's almost like if a parent gets a child with Down's syndrome, they're asked if they didn't know the condition in advance, so they could have had an abortion. I know, of course, that Down's syndrome is not covered by the government's consultation proposal, because it's not a hereditary disease, but we still see many parallels. I'm concerned about a future in which parents feel that the pressure is increasing when they choose to keep a child, with e.g. a disease or disability. My question to the Council of State is: What can and will the Council of State do to help and facilitate our society for those families who in the future will choose to give birth to children with different disabilities and with different diseases?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e328	First, it's important for me to say that all people, and of course all children, are equally worth whatever disability or illness or whatever it may be. I'm concerned that you have children for whom you need help, you have to get that help. There are different situations around the municipalities, there's no doubt about it, so there's still a job to do. Therefore, more money for municipalities is also important. With regard to the current issue of the Biotechnology Act, I do not want to go into the details of it now, because, as the representative knows well, the Government will come up with its proposal in a very short time, and then we will have plenty of opportunity to discuss all the details in that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e337	Clearly, we agree that all people are equally valuable, and we want a society for everyone, as the Christian People's Party views it. We also know that many people live full lives with different disabilities and with serious diseases. I am concerned about a future in which people with disabilities and serious illnesses do not feel welcome. They're struggling today. Many parents themselves need to coordinate their efforts towards auxiliaries. My follow-up question to the Council of State is whether she has thought about what signals are given to disabled people, to sick people and to their parents when the proposal for a legislative change comes – because at least we know for sure what parts of it will be – and not least when the implementation of the proposal is started.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e346	I don't have so much to add to my first answer, except that there's nothing in what the government is now considering, which would mean that we're not concerned about everyone having a self-esteem, and that everyone is as much worth. As I said, concrete proposals are coming back to Stortinget in a very short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e351	There will be three follow-up questions – first Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e354	We can, of course, have different approaches to the notified genetic and biotechnology law. From my side, I'm actually looking forward to this coming, so we can meet the future in a completely different way. We can open up research to combat the major public diseases, even if it will take some time. Then, too, we must not expect, among other things. stem cell research shall provide immediate solutions, for things will take time. But my question to the Council of State is more about getting a broad and popular debate on the topic, because this is a difficult area. It's a complex area, and it's using a lot of professional terminology. Therefore, it is important that information material is developed so that the Norwegian people can participate in the debate, and that we have a real debate instead of a trench policy, which has been seen tending to the past. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State take the initiative to get us to a broad, popular debate and a simple and informative material out to the people?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e363	Firstly, I agree with the representative Nesvik that this is not a simple question. It's difficult, but it's also very important. I would, of course, like to contribute to the possibility of participating in that debate as much as possible, with many ethically difficult balances. So I can answer yes to that. We can help to try to design information materials that can reach further than just us who are doing this. So we're going to get back to just how we're going to do it. But I agree that as much as possible must be involved in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e368	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e372	The government has spent a long time on this matter. That's what I choose to interpret positively. It's a difficult thing, and that's all reason to think about both one, two and three times. I have understood it this way from the draft consultation of the Council of State that it is not appropriate to propose a change to the scope of the Biotechnology Act. The objective paragraph, as we know, establishes the equivalency of all human beings and that we're going to have a society with space for everyone on equal footing. Several of the hearing bodies, including: The State Council’s own professional body, the Health Authority, has pointed out that if a proposal is to be made to both open access to opt-out on the basis of negative legacy facilities and to opt-out on the basis of the absence of positive legacy facilities – i.e. to find the donor sister – it will require a change of the purpose paragraph, because opening this up would clearly be contrary to the purpose paragraph. Do the Councils agree to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e379	I agree with the remuneration that it raises the questions it raises, but I have to answer the previous question that the government is not finished with that matter. We'll get to Stortinget with it in a short time. That's why I don't want to go into the details.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e384	The Soria Moria Declaration says something about biotechnology. Among other things, it states that the Government will ‘revise the Biotechnology Act in order to open up research under specific conditions on surplus fertilised eggs, including stem cell research, and limited use of pre-implantation diagnostics’. I consider this to be quite restrictive, but I have noticed that the Council of State's party trap Jan Bøhler has our strong involvement in this, and my impression is that Jan Bøhler, who is also a member of the Health and Care Committee, is less restrictive than the Soria Moria declaration. Among other things, he stated on 22 May this year to Dagbladet that the government had to say yes to egg donation, and he confirmed it in the Medisin of the day this month. My question to the Council of State is: does Jan Bøhler represent the Red-Green Government's view on the most important issues related to the amendment of the Biotechnology Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e393	Jan Bøhler is of course an important man in this case too, there is no doubt about it, but I have to ask for understanding that I cannot go into the details as long as the government is not finished with the matter and we have not presented it either. But I expect that we will have ample opportunity to discuss all the details, and I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e398	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e401	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food a question. Norwegian agricultural policy is designed according to the social conditions of the 1930s. There is an innumerable range of instruments – there are over 100 instruments with your two laws and regulations – and it is clear that such a complex regulatory framework as the Norwegian farmer has to deal with, it also produces a large bureaucracy. The newspaper Today's Business tried to investigate how many agricultural bureaucrats we have in this country in August this year. It was found that it was approx. one bureaucrat per bureaucrat. Twelveth pawn, that's approx. 5,000 bureaucrats. Professor at the University of Ås Normann Aanesland, in the new report he has now published, found that there are between 5,000 and 10,000 agricultural bureaucrats. But what I think is bad, it is that neither the Minister of Agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture, nor the research institutions related to agriculture have any idea of how many agricultural bureaucrats there are in this country. I also have to say that I am concerned when, according to the Minister of Agriculture of today's Business this August, he will have stated that he does not see the point of having an overview of how many people are working in the agricultural bureaucracy. What three concrete measures does the Minister of Agriculture now want to promote towards the Storting in order to reduce the agricultural bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e412	Firstly, I believe that the assertion by the representative of Asmyhr that agricultural policy is so terribly complicated is somewhat exaggerated. I think those who work with agricultural policy see that it is not so complicated, and that it is actually a context in relation to the various objectives that one has. It would obviously be easier to establish a regulatory framework in relation to agricultural policy if one had only one objective, for example. to produce the cheapest food possible. When one has several objectives for agricultural policy – in relation to rural policy, in relation to cultural landscapes, in relation to safe food, etc. This means that a broader set of instruments is needed to achieve these objectives. There is of course something more complicated, but I do not think that it is more complicated than that it is possible to have an overview of it. With regard to the concern of the representative Asmyhr in relation to the list of bureaucrats, the answer to that question is twofold. First, of course, it is easy to get an overview of how many people work in the specific agricultural administration, who work in the Food Authority, who work in the department, who work in the State Agriculture Administration. We have a full overview of that. Then it is that part of the agricultural management is left, delegated, to the municipalities. First of all, we have our own responsibility in relation to how many people work, and also in relation to what overview there is. In addition, many people work with shared tasks. For example, we have a situation in municipalities where those who work with agriculture, and those who work with environmental tasks, in very many cases overlap, and where it is difficult to set a concrete limit. Let's go into a single area and look at, for example, The Food Authority. It is quite wrong to define food surveillance – with a turnover of DKK 1 billion and a significant field of work up to control tasks in the food sector – as part of the agricultural bureaucracy linked to the individual farmer in Norway. When, for example, the Food Authority: Controlling restaurants in Oslo and other cities is a task that goes far beyond being part of agriculture as such in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e425	I feel that the Minister for Agriculture does not take this issue seriously, that he almost rejects the fact that there should be a problem with a lot of bureaucracy in agriculture. I think that all agricultural professionals see this as a challenge. We constantly look up in the paper where farmers are denied the right to dispose of their own property in the case of redundancy etc. It is such that the bureaucracy has become the farmer's boss in the management of private property and the resources over which the farmer lives. I believe that the Minister of Agriculture should take this seriously. For ECON, a 2004 report commissioned by the Ministry of Agriculture also said that the Norwegian agricultural bureaucracy is ‘conserving’, it seems ‘unnecessary restrictive’, it seems ‘bureaucratic’, and it implies ‘establishment barriers’. So I ask again: does the Council reject the problem that there is a major bureaucracy in agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e434	I believe that the representative Asmyhr here obviously mixes two different things together. One is the desired policy, and the other is the relationship with the administration and what is defined as «bureaucratic». The examples mentioned by the Asmyhr representative here are about politics: the sharing of property and how the legislation works out of the individual's desire to do things that seem to each individual in isolation to be sensible, but which, in the interests of society, might be less sensible to do. After all, we have had several discussions in the Stortinget relating to divisional matters where the Government and the Advance Party disagree. It is about the property policy and the agricultural policy that you want to pursue. There is no discussion as to whether it is agricultural bureaucracy as such that is a handicap or a helper in relation to local economic development and in relation to the implementation of local and central agricultural policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e439	The President will accept four follow-up questions – first Torbjørn Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e442	I have a follow-up question for the Minister of Agriculture and Food. The agricultural legislation must necessarily be quite complicated when it is obviously difficult for both the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and for the Agricultural Team’s experts to understand the legislation correctly. In October 11th, the Ministry of Agriculture Knallhardt went against the Competition Authority and accused the supervision of both crime and secrecy and of undermining the Norwegian customs protection of agricultural products. The case concerned cooperation on imports of cheese. This cooperation requires a derogation from the rules of the Competition Act on price cooperation and the exemption was granted in 2003 because an exemption would in fact strengthen competition and not impede competition, as this provision is intended to ensure. The peasant team went to work even more thoroughly and threatened to renegotiate the entire agricultural agreement if the imports were not stopped. This attack got a very rough landing when it was known yesterday that the Ministry of Renewal and Administration did not believe that the import was illegal, did not believe that it was a problem for domestic cheese production, and did not think that it was appropriate to do anything to remove the scheme. Is it not a little embarrassing for the Minister of Agriculture and Food that the Department and the Lander clearly misunderstands the legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e454	I believe that if the representative Hansen had read the entire correspondence he refers to, he would see that what it is now concluded with is that the Competition Authority wants to go through the arrangements that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has taken up, and that the Ministry of Renewal and Administration believes it is a work to be done quickly. It is an answer in line with the intentions of the letter that was sent. We wanted to look at the system when we thought it was a system that was not appropriate to the other situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e459	Ingredient S. Sørfonn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e462	The agricultural offices in the municipalities in particular have an important task in meeting the farmers. The experience of farm offices as well, or if the offices are perceived more as opponents or obstacles to the good and creative performance of the farm profession, can in fact be decisive for many young people's choices, whether or not they want to invest in the farm profession. I know that in many municipalities this works very well, while in other places it is more like ‘bob-bob’. My question to the Minister of Agriculture is therefore: Does the Council of State have a strategy and a framework for systematic training and development of skills, so that agricultural bureaucrats and, in particular, agricultural offices in the municipalities can become even better support players both for persuasive farmers and for young people who stand before the choice of whether to invest in a future in agriculture or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e467	I recognise that ‘bob-bob’ is a demanding thing in relation to agricultural policy. There's obviously a need to move on if that's going to be the situation. In relation to training at agricultural offices and the uniform dissemination of legislation and other agricultural policies, the central role of the county council is to coordinate. We know that today there is an extensive regional activity in relation to coordination between county offices and those working on agricultural matters at individual agricultural offices and municipalities. I assume that in such a communication there is also sufficient coordination, so that we have the mix of local discretion and the need for coordination at local offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e474	Leif Helge Kongshaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e477	Over time, there have been many myths about how many public employees have worked in the agricultural industry. It's tended to have numbers like this. 10,000. I remember the previous Minister of Agriculture was out and corrected and said that the figure was 2,500, and my claim is that it has not become any more, nor less. But my question to the Minister of Agriculture is this: the last government was active in decentralising the instrument, and the left is of the opinion that the best decisions are taken as close as possible to those concerned. There was also a great deal of regionalisation. Does the Council of State have a strategy or plan to further decentralise the instrument and continue the good work done by the previous government in that area?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e484	There is a great deal of sense in decentralising, including in the field of agriculture, and this should be done in those cases where it makes sense. Then we also see that there is a need for central governance in parts of the agricultural area, and we have seen among other things. in relation to the issue of soil protection, that we need some corrections between the local maritime administration and the possibility of a central approach to these issues. We also look at issues related to ownership policy sharing and price development on agricultural property that there is a need to look at the relationship between local maritime administration and a national agricultural policy, and there are things I am going through now. In addition, in this question, we are now at a stage where we are working on the administrative reform from the Government side – that is the big issue in relation to the question raised by the representative Kongshaug – where one will go and make an assessment of where in the management system and at what levels the different matters belong. We will have ample opportunity to come back to that in the presentation of that reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e491	Åge Starheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e494	My question goes to State Councillor Heidi Grande Røys. As we hear, it's said that agricultural policy is so complicated that there's so many added that sometimes it doesn't have an overview of how many there are. We know that there are many people in the municipalities who work within the agricultural sector, and it is also claimed, as it is said here, that farmers simply feel opposed by some. One may also have registered a certain mistrust of the Food Authority. My question to the Council of State Heidi Grande Røys is, as she is responsible for renewal: does the Council of State see that it is necessary here to carry out a thorough review of this administration to see if it is possible to renew this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e499	I believe the Minister of Agriculture did well to ensure that this government and the Progress Party have a somewhat different view of agricultural policy in general and the number of bureaucrats in particular. I feel that what we have from civil servants, case handlers, in this country, is doing their job. They do their job on the basis of a policy that is defined by big business and government, and that's the job they're going to do. There will then be conflicts when some people want to do something that national policies do not do, and then the government intervened, for example, by their right to object, and the ministry through various supervision, for example. The Food Authority. The Food Authority has just been created, one has just made a big change and renewed the whole part of the administration to oversee food and food production, and so far the Government sees no reason to question the job done by the bureaucracy and the agency in relation to food.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e504	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e508	My question goes to the Brustad State Council. The left asked a question to the Council of State about how many young people live in old-age and sick homes. The council replied that in some cases we had to accept that young people for a short period of time live in a nursing home. Our starting point for the question was the Stortinget's intention to move all young people out of the institution, and what the council would do to follow up the Stortinget's decision and the Government's own goal to avoid these unworthy situations. Last Monday, the NRC revealed that more than 3,000 young people are in an old age institution, and the secretary-general of the Norwegian Parkinson’s Association stated in this context that ending up in a nursing home as a young person is being experienced as a crisis in life. These are strong words and show the seriousness of the situation. It's the municipalities that are responsible for what we're talking about. However, government authorities have contributed to the follow-up of government policies, and these tools are roughly two: we have a point of reference for the reimbursement of resource-requiring users and a level at which top finance takes place. Here's a clear context. But the red-green government has weakened the economic incentives and thus the municipalities' motivation to bet on individual solutions for resource-requiring users. In practice, it means that providing sick homes has become cheaper than providing facilities for resource-requiring users. So the local authorities' motivation is getting worse. My question to the Council of State is this: Will this not mean that the municipalities will have even more young people living in old age and infirmities?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e517	First of all, it's very important for me to say that no one is going to live in a nursing home against their will, especially the age group we're talking about here. The number that the NRK presented, 3,000, is wrong. It is completely unknown that there are so many in that age group living permanently in old-age and infirm homes. Per now there are 129 people under the age of 50. Of them, after the information I've received, there are twelve who want to move out. Of the twelve, the situation is clear for eight, and for the four remaining, in these days they are now working with a clarification so that they come out of old-age and infirmary homes. I'm getting a new report on December 8th on the situation. I hope that we will approach a solution so that people no longer live against their will in a nursing home or old age home, because there is no good solution at all. Every person we're talking about here is being followed up by the county in the individual counties and municipalities, and that's absolutely necessary. I would also say that we have not, on the part of this government, weakened any economic incentives in relation to this. In fact, there was a decrease in the number of those living in old-age and sick homes in 2005 compared to previous years, and probably there will be a further decrease, as the picture now looks.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e524	I thank you for the answer, and I note that the Council of State really says that we should have zero tolerance for young people living in institutions. I also note that she believes that the size level in the NRK is wrong, but in the same mission, Secretary of State Aasrud was outside and admitted that there is a problem here, and she promised that it would be fined 3 million kroner. extra for research of young people in an old age institution. So I think we can be a few of them that here we have a problem -- I guess the Council of State is also in agreement -- and that we're actually going to approach zero tolerance on this as far as possible. What we're after is getting a good professional offer. What does the Council of State mean is a good professional offer to young resource-required users?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e529	First of all, to the case that the NRK ran: there I would like to stress that my State Secretary was cut and glued. So it's not covering up the matter. Well, the Secretary of State is not cut and glued, but what the Secretary of State said was cut and glued. I'm sorry. Here it's important to be accurate. The number 3,000 we don't understand, because it's not the reality of how many under 50 years live in a nursing home – and I want to say fortunately. I fully agree with the representative Ludvigsen that no one should live there against his will, and that is why I also hope that in a very short time we will be able to resolve the situation of the four we per. now has an overview, which has not been moved out, but wants to live outside. What is a good offer is difficult for me to have some fasitant response to, because here there are different needs and different desires. But I think very strongly that one should listen as far as possible to those who are involved, in order to find an offer that suits what each individual needs, and what each individual wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e538	There will be three follow-up questions – first the representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e541	It is kind of nice to hear the council say that the government has not weakened the offer, but the fact is that you have increased the entry point in the municipalities, and thus you have increased the costs for the municipalities. It is the case that the Progress Party has repeatedly raised this matter and pointed out the unworthy situation of many young people with disabilities. It may be nice to ask the Council of State, since you leave it out there and float and say that this is the responsibility of the municipalities: When does the Council of State think that the Government has put in place a system to ensure that this group is treated properly in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e548	First of all, we're going to try to get all those who want to get out of old-age and sick homes – now there's a few left – into other types of offers. That should be a good offer. I feel that there is quite a broad consensus on that. With regard to the scheme for particularly resource-intensive users, there is a mechanism known to the representative. It exists today, it is being used diligently, and we have not proposed any changes to it per. Now. So we're also going to carry it on, but it might be that in the future some adjustments should be made, because it's not always one when well enough out to all target groups. We have an open attitude to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e555	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e558	I am pleased to hear that the Council of State is following up the system that Ansgar Gabrielsen set up in the field of emigration, namely a concrete follow-up of the individual, named from the County Council. But the challenge is that a whole bunch of new kids get refilled and moved into a nursing home. The most targeted mechanism to avoid this is the scheme established by the Erna Solberg State Council, namely the mechanism for financing with particularly resource-intensive users. However, there is a scheme that the Storting has expressed that a wish for an improvement. In the Soria Moria statement, one says that one wants an improvement on it, but nothing happens. In the Municipal Report last week, State Council Haga says: ‘We need to find a solution for these users. It is demanding for a health minister to raise this issue in the priorities, and therefore it may be possible that we should bring this back to the Ministry of Local Affairs.’ Does the Council agree with its colleague that it is her failure to give priority to this group that is the reason why this scheme has not been improved?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e568	This government has only one vision, including in this matter, and it is that we want to improve this system. When it comes to the department of the scheme, we'll agree on that. I don't think that's the biggest problem. But I see that what's important here is that it's a good arrangement, and it helps those who need help. I agree with the representative, Höie, that there is no target at all for young people to enter old-age and sick homes. Rather, on the contrary – we have to do what we can to ensure that they get a much better order elsewhere. This is what we intend to do, both through this particular scheme and through the local economy in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e573	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e577	The Christian People's Party believes it is good to speed things up in the concrete situation that is today. But we know that this is not done in a hand turn. Any youth or young disability being misplaced is one too many. The Christian People's Party is concerned that we need to get better government funding in relation to resource-intensive services in the municipalities. In addition, however, the Government has announced a new investment grant for the construction of hospital and care facilities from 2008. My question is: Can the Government imagine that such a new grant could also be granted to other types of housing, for example: apartments for young people with disabilities, mental retardation or mental illness?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e584	The answer to that is yes. What we're proposing is that the new investment grant can be used to build more hospitals, but also nursing homes or other types of housing – what you want to call it – where good luck and care are to be offered. There is also a change in relation to what has been in force up to now, that we should also align it with users under the age of 67, which we are very concerned about. It is precisely the target group on which the representative Mr Tørersdal is concerned. It can be people with mental problems, drug problems, disabilities or other things. So they're also in the target group in relation to the grant we're now proposing.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e589	We're going to go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e592	I want to ask the Minister of Renewal and Administration a question. Consumer policy is under constant pressure with the new government. The Government has changed the course of consumer policy and clearly believes that exemptions from the Competition Act and other anti-competitive measures should be used as a business policy tool to provide benefits to strong commercial interests at the expense of consumers. For example, the Government has reviewed the Competition Surveillance Authority’s ban on mergers in all appeals, despite the fact that the supervision considers that mergers have a negative impact on consumers. In addition, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has tightened trade policy and customs legislation to prevent competition from foreign food. This applies, for example: the tightening up of the foreign processing legislation on agricultural products, which severely impedes competition in meat. As another curious example, I can mention a 156 pst. an increase in the customs duty on milk replacers for sheep, which is good for Tine but which actually undermines the possibility for sheep farmers to make milk replacers. In addition, the government has turned up the customs duty on imports of organic juice, and in addition we have the so-called cheese war, which is well known to the Council of State. But competition is also increasingly difficult on our domestic dairy market. Both the Q-meierines and Synnove Finden have sued the Government for million amounts as a result of economic discrimination in the milk market. There are legal proceedings in progress these days, and new cases are just around the corner. Both the independent research agency Econ and an expert group set up with professors from the School of Commerce and the BI systematically observe, on 8 November, gross and extensive economic discrimination within the organisation of the market in milk. It was stated in the 2006 budget of the Ministry of Modernisation that the Competition Authority would be more responsible for monitoring the dairy sector under the rules of the Competition Act. How has this been followed up by the Government? And is the Council of State responsible for competition policy satisfied with the situation on the dairy market?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e605	There was a lot here, to say it like that. Something was in my field, something was in the Minister of Agriculture's field, and something was in the Minister of Finance's field, so I think I'll concentrate on answering my question. What's involved in both Q-meieria and Synnøve Finden is the Minister of Agriculture's constitutional responsibility, and I don't want to answer that. Torbjørn Hansen refers again to the decisions where the department has found reason to have a different view than the Competition Authority, but he's wasting it together to be the only explanation of that, namely that we're no consumer, and that it's a sport of his own to overrun the Competition Authority. I want that on the strongest raw representative from continuing to talk about it. There are very different explanations that we've made the decisions we've made. When it rallied the merger between National Oil Well and Varco, there was a misjudging of what was the market. The Competition Authority had said that the market for these drilling instruments and the pipe to be used was only the North Sea, while all consumers, it is the suppliers, it is the customers of the large drilling equipment – that is, the entire industry – said that that market is international. That was the basis for revising that decision. When it broke up the merger between Gilde and Prior, there was a basis for – and it was the Competition Authority's agreement, it is also EU law, and the ministry is of course in agreement – that it per. today is not a common market for red and white meat. Ergo is not a Prior and Gilde competitors per year. today. When we look at the laws underlying our decisions, she says that we should oppose a merger, it must be because it would lead to, or strengthen, a substantial restriction of competition. It wasn't that way with that decision, and so we did it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e616	I want to ask an additional question, and it goes to the Minister of Agriculture and Food. My previous question was actually about how the Competition Authority could follow up the dairy sector. Competition supervision is, of course, under the responsibility of the Minister of Renewal and Administration. But my follow-up question goes to the Minister of Agriculture and Food. It goes without saying that when two expert groups found systematic, serious and widespread financial discrimination between independent dairy operators, it was announced by the Ministry of Agriculture that this was a known substance. Thus, it is well known that the independent operators are losing large amounts of the market organization for milk. My question to the Minister of Agriculture and Food is: Does the Council of State agree that there is a need for quite thorough changes to the system in order for competition to be on equal terms? And the council understands that it's possible to do things in the short term, for example. in relation to the examination of the application from the Q dairies, in order to remedy the unsustainable situation of the dairy market?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e625	To take the last one first: I was interested in a very quick processing of the application from the Q-meierines, and I invited the Q-meierines to apply. When there was no application for a revised national budget in our country, it is not that easy to give money either. That's the one. With regard to competition in the milk market, there are two conditions in which, as I believe, it is important to go through. One is the ratio to valuation, capital return, in Tine. It's a work that we're doing. Unfortunately, only two applicants came to do that job in ours. It was too small, also in the interests of connections that the applicants had. We have therefore started a new process to get a review that is professionally good enough. The second concerns cargo arrangements and geography linked to the milk market. There we have now set up a wide-ranging group to see if those arrangements are fair and correct in relation to today's situation. Having fair and good competition in the milk market is very important, and we're working on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e634	There will be two follow-up questions – first Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e637	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture and Food. I feel in many ways that the Minister of Agriculture and Food rejects the fact that there is not enough competition in the dairy sector. One must almost be Minister of Agriculture and at the same time owner of Tine in order to reach such a conclusion. I almost believe that all consumers in this country are very concerned that there should be great competition in this sector too, as we are accustomed to in all other areas. Here the Minister of Agriculture has not done anything to meet the private actors. So now the state has lost its way into the courts. A new report has come from Econ and the independent professor's report has come. It must then make the impression on the Minister of Agriculture that it is pointed out that the department has made major and serious mistakes. How many cases should the State lose before the Council of State will contribute to facilitating more competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e646	All right, first of all, I'm assuming that there's a lot of understanding in this room that commenting on trials is not very sensible, so I don't want to do that. When it comes to the claim that nothing has been done, I just have to repeat what I just said to the representative Hansen. I was positive about the process of the Q-meieriums in ours. Q dairies never applied for support in this regard. I have a process going on regarding the valuation of Tine, which I believe is a good basis for moving forward in relation to the turmoil in the milk market. So, on the initiative of the Ministry, we have now started work on going through the shipping arrangements, which are also considered to be an important area by independent operators in the milk market.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e653	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e657	When I hear about the merger of Tine and Prior, it reminds me of the chicken that suggested to the pig that they put together their resources and make eggs and bacon. I think most consumers experience that there is actually a competition between red and white meat. When one listens to the Minister of Agriculture's response, one becomes more and more in doubt if the Minister of Agriculture really wants effective and good competition in the agricultural sector, given that consumers have the opportunity to face real choices between different products, not only in the dairy sector but also in other agricultural sectors. Is it the case that the Minister of Agriculture is most concerned with the Farmers' Layer and the Agricultural Cooperation, who want monopoly and uniformity in this area, or is he most concerned with the interests of consumers, who obviously make their own choices in this area as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e668	This is an interesting statement from the representative, Höie, because what I do knowingly is to continue with the regime that the Right agreed to put in place in the previous growing-up period. So the criticism that the representative here addresses me must be directed at far more than the current Minister of Agriculture. In addition, as I have now said twice, I have invited the Q daisies to search in ours. There was never an application. I have started a work in relation to a valuation of Tine, and we are in the process of reviewing the shipping arrangements related to the milk sector. So the statement is not correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-11-29.ana.ud1007e675	The oral question procedure has now ended. Today's map has been processed successfully. Does anyone require the word under § 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
