ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e127	The Socialist Left Alliance Group has requested that the birth permit granted to the representative Lena Jensen be extended until 5 March 2007. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Ole-Anton Tegen, continues to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e145	The representative, Jan Tore Sanner, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e148	On behalf of the representatives Ulf Leirstein, Hans Olav Syversen, Lars Sponheim and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on tax exemptions for the processing costs paid by employers and health insurance.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e153	The representative of Borghild Tenden will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e156	On behalf of the representatives of Øyvind Halleraker, Trond Helleland, Jan Sahl and myself, I have the honour and pleasure to make a representative proposal that new Lysaker station conforms to the principles of universal design.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e161	The representative, André N. Skkelstad, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e164	On behalf of the representatives of Gunnar Kvassheim, Gunvald Ludvigsen and myself, I have been pleased to make a proposal for a representative to review the legislation on compensation for municipalities that are disproportionately badly affected by flooding, race and natural damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e170	The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e174	On behalf of Torbjørn Andersen, Tord Lien, Børge Brende, Ivar Kristiansen and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal on an energy policy action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e179	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the day’s map is considered, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at 1 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e197	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1644]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e213	The framework agreement between Norway and the United States on pre-storage and reinforcement was signed last summer and replaces the previous agreement of 1981. During the Committee's examination, it has been noted that the new framework agreement is clear that the material stored must comply with Norwegian international legal obligations, that Norwegian authorities must have an influence on what is stored, and that stocks continue to be manned by Norwegian personnel and will be under daily Norwegian control and supervision. The agreement does not entail changes to Norwegian base policy or self-imposed restrictions on the non-stationing of nuclear weapons on Norwegian soil. Now, the strategic and military situation around us and around the world is changing elsewhere over the years, and the Committee agrees that the equipment could be used for tasks including peace operations, humanitarian aid, impact management on terrorist attacks and evacuation operations. The agreement is important for Norway, not least because it is an essential part of Norway’s strategic partnership with the United States. One understands that the equipment should be adapted to the new security policy challenges and tasks, including crisis and preparedness tasks outside Norway. It is implicit that the new agreement opens up extensive American practice in Norway. Finally, the Committee is very pleased with the importance attached by an American side to cooperation with Norway. For my part, I would like to add that the unanimity of the Committee is a good assurance that the anchoring and cooperation with our main military and security cooperation partner, the United States.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e228	Let me first join the statements made by the President-in-Office of the Council. The background to Norway's pre-storage in 25 years was, of course, originally to facilitate American reinforcements in the event of a possible attack by the former Soviet Union. Today, as we know, the framework conditions for security policy have changed significantly. After the end of the Cold War, for several governments, it has been an important objective to ensure further pre-storage in Norway. Former Minister of Defence Jørgen Kosmo negotiated in 1995 a new agreement to maintain a significant American presence in the form of a more advanced pre-storage. Norway has lost a good deal of NATO infrastructure in recent years, including: as a result of new command structure in the alliance. The revision of the pre-storage agreement we are discussing today was seen as extremely important both in the political environment and not least in the communities concerned. Local politicians were also active lobbyists against, among other things. Spring 2005 — especially the defence committee that received the visits — to ensure infrastructure and jobs. The revised agreement is to a greater extent – let me stress it – adapted to today’s security challenges, both military and civil protection. It is apparent from the proposition that the equipment can be used for, inter alia: peace operations, humanitarian aid, disaster assistance, response management to terrorist attacks and evacuation operations. I personally think it is important that the pre-storage equipment is intended to be used within a broad civil-military framework, including for civil protection. Then the material shall ensure American participation in exercises in Norway, including activities arising from the NATO centre on Jåttå at Stavanger, the Joint Warfare Centre. The storage shall be, as also emphasised by the case-rapporteur, in accordance with Norwegian obligations under international law, and the Norwegian authorities shall have an influence over what could be stored. Stocks shall have Norwegian crew and shall be under daily Norwegian control and supervision. It is the Norwegian defence that is responsible for this. It is also important that Norwegian basic policy is maintained. It also imposes self-imposed restrictions on the non-stationing of nuclear weapons on Norwegian soils. The U.S. equipment was previously deployed at five Norwegian airstations. Now the business is streamlined and concentrated to the Guards and the Sun. I also want to add that it is a unanimous committee that adheres to the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e243	I am pleased that the Committee unanimously endorses the Government's proposal to continue cooperation with the United States on pre-storage. I agree with the meaning that unanimity is being promoted here. It has been important for the Government to continue the stockpiles. The new agreement contributes to increased American attention on issues of importance to our security and ensures continued presence in our neighbourhoods. As stated by the Committee, pre-storage will make it natural for US forces to practice in Norway. Maintaining American and Allied ability to operate in Norway is a priority objective of the Government. The pre-storage agreement also contributes to building under the Norwegian defence strategy at that point. As pointed out by the Committee, the Agreement gives Norwegian influence over and transparency in what is stored. The adaptation of equipment reflects changes in the international security policy framework conditions and the new needs facing the United States, Norway and NATO, including crisis and preparedness tasks outside Norway. The Government emphasises that materials complying with Norwegian international obligations are stored. There is agreement between Norway and the United States that existing class weapons in stocks should be removed and destroyed. The destruction will be completed by June 2007. There will be Norwegian crew and daily Norwegian control of stocks at all times. It is important that materials can also be used in allied exercises in Europe. It will contribute to strengthening the credibility of the NATO security guarantee. The continuation of the agreement means that the material will continue to contribute to the overall objectives of the alliance on effective crisis management in operations, such as: in Afghanistan and in the Balkans, increased capacity for humanitarian assistance and evacuation operations and management of the consequences of possible terrorist attacks.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e258	As has been mentioned here, the old double decision states that these are the best self-imposed restrictions Norway has had. They have been successful, especially towards the Soviet Union. Having self-imposed restrictions was the best thing we could do to balance the situation during the Cold War. In the new situation, we now see that the need in the north is not so great. It started with the Keflavik base. It is likely that it will also come into contact with our preferences, because the threat is out of proportion to what one should store. The possible problems that may arise in the future are whether what is being prepared is being used, for example. in wars or conflicts that we would politically have difficulty supporting. There may be situations such as: is not properly legitimated in the UN, etc. This will be a problem which will lie next to the material being prepared in the future. I don't see exactly today that this is a political problem, but situations may arise in the future. I thought that the Stortinget should also be aware when we now accept this submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e267	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1644]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e283	The production and export of defence equipment constitutes a non-negligible value creation in Norway. This type of industry has for many years contributed to technological development that can also be used civilly. Exports of defence equipment amounted to a total of DKK 2.9 billion in 2005, a significant increase in comparison with 2004, but around the same level as in 2003. It turns out that there are variations in the value of exports from year to year. This is mainly due to variations in individual deliveries. Norway practices strict enforcement of the export control legislation. Adequate documentation is required prior to granting an exit permit. This will often be an end-user statement, whereby the recipient declares that he is the final user of the material, discloses the installation and use and assures that the resale of the material will not take place without the agreement of the Norwegian authorities. However, exports of weapons and other defence equipment between NATO countries are carried out without requiring re-port clause or end-user declaration. This is a practice developed over many years, based on trust between the defence alliance partners. Multilateral export control is an increasingly important tool to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the build-up of conventional military capacity that could threaten security and stability in many areas. In recent years, it has become increasingly important to strengthen cooperation in order to prevent terrorists from accessing chemical and biological weapons precursors or production and dissemination equipment. It is essential to prevent weapons and technology from coming into the hands of groups or persons whose civil lives are aimed at promoting their cause. It is therefore important that a restrictive policy is put in place with regard to the sale of weapons and technology and that we are associated with international control bodies cooperating in this important work. There are now a number of unregistered and illegal weapons, which pose a major problem in many conflict areas. Development of measures against illicit arms trafficking, such as: strengthening border controls in conflict-affected areas is an action that may have an impact. It is also important that Norwegian stockpiles of weapons are adequately secured so that weapons from them do not fall into the hands of criminals or terrorists. In the course of the review of the notification, the Committee received several observations. Norway’s Peace Act, PRESS – the Fear Children’s Youth Organisation – and the Church’s Emergency Aid have all contributed in this way. What remains in these recordings is a desire to introduce a mandatory end-user declaration for all recipients of Norwegian weapons or other defence equipment – precisely to strengthen control of where Norwegian defence equipment actually ends. The two former organisations want us in Norway to introduce stronger parliamentary control of weapons, and refer to the Swedish model for this, which they believe works well. A unanimous Foreign Affairs Committee considers that the issue of the possible parliamentary control of exports of defence equipment needs to be addressed in an interaction between magnification and government, and therefore asks the Government to assess various aspects of increased export control and to discuss it appropriately with the bodies of the Storting. It also expresses satisfaction and support for Norwegian participation in the comprehensive international work established in the field of export control and non-proliferation. This cooperation is essential to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and to prevent illicit arms trafficking. Finally, I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their very good cooperation in this matter, which has led us today to deal with an attitude that is unanimous on all points, which I am very pleased with.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e306	Let me acknowledge the last thing that the rapporteur said, and thank the rapporteur for a very constructive cooperation. That might be the main reason why we have a unanimous setting right here now. I think St.meld. No 19 in many ways is more interesting than the previous annual reports on exports of defence equipment and arms control, and I would like to commend it to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The notification describes the changes in the multinational defence industry.The notification is concerned with providing increased transparency on issues related to the export of Norwegian defence equipment.The notification is concerned with international cooperation in order to move forward in the multilateral nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation work.The notification emphasises that the control of arms exports also aims to prevent goods and technology for the manufacture of Norwegian weapons of mass destruction from being carried out in breach of Norwegian legislation. The Committee endorses the Communication and adds that it is important to strengthen cooperation in order to prevent terrorists from accessing technologies that can be used to develop weapons of mass destruction, and that possible stronger parliamentary control of arms exports must be addressed in an interaction between mass destruction and government. As far as the defence industry is concerned, it has become more and more multinational over time. Components of a helicopter or a tank may be produced in a number of countries, which makes it difficult to identify where the material is made. Increasingly, competition has also become tougher, including: due to extensive structural changes or so-called transformation of defence in all NATO countries — and far beyond it. The defence of individual countries is becoming less widespread, but more targeted and technological. The Communication states that the Norwegian defence industry has also developed close cooperation with international partners. The most recent partners for the Norwegian defence industry are located in the United States and the EU. I would also like to point out that Norwegian Nammo at Raufoss, which has long since become a transnational company, recently bought American Talley Defense Systems, a company that Nammo has cooperated with for 25 years. This also shows how the international defence industry is now operating, and we should be very aware of it. It is otherwise affordable that the Government is concerned with both increased transparency and increased control over the export of Norwegian defence equipment. I notice that the Government will continue the practice of consulting and informing the Storting about matters of particular importance and importance. In this respect, the Committee asks the Government to assess various aspects of increased export control, including possible parliamentary control, but this needs to be discussed with the bodies of the Stortinge, and is not something we can decide on here and now. There is one thing that has to be taken – I had almost said – bilaterally between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government and the organs of the Storting. There is also reason to commend the Minister for Foreign Affairs — and in so far as his predecessors too — for the systematic work that Norway is doing to prevent the proliferation and safe disarmament of nuclear weapons. The work on nuclear disarmament — which forms part of this message — arms control and the prevention of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction are an essential part of the security policy work we pursue. We must fight against all kinds of weapons of mass destruction. Nevertheless, nuclear weapons and radioactivity remain in a special position in terms of death and destruction. Therefore, the goal must be the elimination of all nuclear weapons. Former P.A. Haakon Blankenborg said in an interpellation debate on 8 May 2003: ‘We really have no other way to go in this field than the contract path.’ The non-proliferation agreement is the cornerstone of the work to prevent the proliferation and safe construction of nuclear weapons. However, the disarmament and non-proliferation regime is under heavy pressure. While the 1995 and 2000 surveillance conferences were relatively uplifting, with concrete measures pointing forward, the 2005 Conference of Supervisors failed, not to say chaos. Following the Conference of Supervisors, Norway, at the request of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, took an initiative to continue its work on this issue, together with six other countries. This proposal did not reach the UN Summit in September of the same year, but the seven-country group continues to work to identify concrete actions that could lead to the future. There is respect for Norway's work here. An important part of this work is also, of course, to prevent the spread of nuclear competences to terrorist groups and unstable countries. I would also like to welcome this round of the government's work to get an international ban on class bombs. Some believe that the real weapons of mass destruction on our globe are small arms. At least there are small arms that kill most people today. I have noticed that Norway and the Netherlands are working together to promote the establishment of national legislation for the control of the transmission of small arms, based on the UN action plan against illicit trafficking in small arms. It is also important to reach an international agreement, a so-called Arms Trade Treaty, to improve the control of trade in small arms.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e354	I would also like to commend the rapporteur for the job he has done in order to achieve a unanimous attitude, and for the openness he has shown towards the recordings that have come from the outside. Norway is a large arms exporter in relation to the population. That is why we have a particular responsibility to have strict control over what the weapons and weapon parts are used for, and that there is control over where they are used – that they do not end up in wars that are contrary to international law, or in occupying countries. This setting shows that both the Storing, the Government and civil society are engaged in proper control and that there are constant improvements. So that's a process in which we're not yet completely in the goal. Transparency and transparency are very important in this area. The government's emphasis is on this and is taking new steps to increase transparency. These include: the first time that the message provides information on the execution by defence authorities of their own material and the execution of small arms. Civil society raises important questions and acts as important watchbows in the field of transparency, transparency and knowledge of the control of exports of defence equipment. Several organisations commend the fact that there is now greater transparency, but the same organisations call for stronger control of where Norwegian munitions of war actually end, and believe that an end-user declaration must be introduced to all recipients of Norwegian weapons and other defence equipment. As the rapporteur said, Norway's Fredslag and PRESS are calling for the introduction of a Swedish model export control board, involving parliamentarians directly in the acceptance of export licences. These consider Norway’s role as exporter of arms and defence equipment to be difficult to reconcile with Norway’s role as peace organisation. It is important to continue the work in relation to arms exports and arms control, for example. to look at what we can follow from recordings that come from the organisations. In the setting, there are also strong leads. I'd like to refer to the Prio report from 2006, Bullets Without Borders. It shows that the lack of controls on exports to NATO may lead to Norwegian weapons being weighed down. Furthermore, a report from Amnesty International shows that weapons parts produced in Norway have landed in Israel after resale from the United States, although Norway has a ban on arms exports to war and conflict countries. If Amnesty International is right, it shows that new initiatives are needed. In the message, the Government says it will assess whether there is any added value in collapsing international humanitarian law and human rights as conditions in the arms export control area. Here the Government will receive the full support of the Committee. Since 1997, this has been normative in export control, but it is a problem that this is not legally binding. Human rights are indivisible and universal and cannot be broken for reasons of other interests. The government takes an active role internationally to overcome the uncontrolled spread of small arms. The proliferation of small arms is a serious obstacle to development and contributes to violations of human rights worldwide. And as Marit Nybakk said, it also kills many people. More importantly, we have control systems that ensure that Norwegian weapons or Norwegian ammunition are not resold and are held by states that violate human rights or that other situations do not arise that would conflict with other export control rules. The Soria Moria Declaration stated that Norway should work for an international convention on arms trafficking. Norway is an active support player for, among others. United Kingdom in the work of an Arms Trade Treaty. The United Nations adopted the Resolution Towards an Arms Trade Treaty on 26 October this year. It is a first step towards regulation and common rules for arms trafficking. There is considerable resistance to this in some countries, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. The United States, which voted against, but I am sure that Norway will play an important role further. More than ever, the forces that fight against the proliferation of nuclear weapons and for disarmament are needed. That is why the fight against non-proliferation and for disarmament must be stepped up. Norway’s involvement in this area has been clear for a long time, both under the previous government and this government. Norway has been and must be a driver of the widest possible and most binding non-proliferation and disarmament work. The proliferation of nuclear weapons is a serious threat to international peace and security. It is therefore important for Norway to continue cooperation within the seven-country group in order to move forward in the follow-up to the 2000 Conference of Supervisors. And in particular, as the representative of Marit Nybakk also said, it is important since no further measures were agreed at the 2005 Conference of Supervisors. Everyone who sees the escalation happening, and the threat picture created by Iran and North Korea, also sees that this has to be taken seriously here. It is also serious when it is now confirmed that Israel has nuclear weapons, as Vanunu said earlier. Finally, I would like to commend an increasing peace movement, which is now mobilizing for nuclear disarmament and demanding a ban on nuclear weapons. Those of us who have worked on the same questions and who have a history in particular. No, nuclear weapons, they know what power there can be in such mobilization.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e386	Norway is one of the world's leading exporters of weapons, and indeed the third largest per. the population. It is therefore our responsibility to make sure that weapons or weapon components manufactured in Norway are not used to violate human rights. The left wants an effective arms export control regime. At the same time, we want the Norwegian regime to allow Norwegian companies to export weapons, weapon components and weapon technology. In other words, the left line is a demanding balance between, on the one hand, enabling the production and export of weapons from Norway and, on the other, a strict control of these exports. The left believes that transparency is an important key to a better control regime. In St.meld. No 19 for 2005-2006 shows the Government’s willingness to increase transparency within the limits set by Norwegian laws and regulations. This is a step in the right direction. However, the information provided is not detailed enough to clarify which exporter/producer exports what, where and how much. In several NATO countries, this report is more comprehensive and detailed than the Norwegian one. The left is therefore in favour of Norway setting itself at a level equivalent to ‘best practices’ in NATO. International cooperation with increasing globalisation has become increasingly important for effective arms export control. The EU Code of Conduct, to which Norway has committed itself, is not binding but promotes a common EU approach to arms export control. The Code of Conduct is becoming a central international reference agency. In addition, Norway is involved in: Waasenaar cooperation, targeting conventional weaponsNuclear Suppliers Group, targeting the Australian nuclear arms group, targeting chemical and biological weaponsThe missile technology control regime This together constitutes a relatively fine-masked network to which 30–50 of the most advanced industrialised countries have joined. The reason why I mention this is that there is an increasing problem associated with many of the other countries that are not caught up in this network. Most of the uncontrolled proliferation of weapons takes place through these countries. It is therefore gratifying that 139 UN countries last October voted in favour of a resolution to initiate work on an Arms Trade Treaty. This is intended to become a Convention binding on international arms trade. The Government voted in favour of the resolution, thus following up the involvement of the Bondevik II Government in this area. The Convention is intended to capture countries that do not have as advanced arms export controls as such. Norway. The regrettable thing is that the United States voted against the resolution and that countries such as China and Russia abstained. Therefore, it may at best take a long time before a binding convention enters into force. Meanwhile, Norway, together with other like-minded countries, should try to move the United States, Russia and China, and others, in the right direction. An important reason for supporting the work of a global convention is the growing problem of licensing arms production in other countries. If the country of production has less stringent rules on arms exports than, for example: Norway, Norwegian rules are at risk of circumvention. The licence for the production of Norwegian developed weapons abroad should be based on the same criteria as for exports, as the practical consequences are much the same. I have noticed the foreign minister's written reply to Amnesty International of 8 August this year. He here stated that a large part of our arms exports consists of parts and components that are part of the weapons systems of other countries. This allows these countries to control the final use of the finished product. In other words, it is theirs and not our arms export rules that are to be taken into account. The Foreign Minister could not rule out the use of fuel made in Norway and exported to the United States in Hellfire rockets, which Israel deployed in the war against Lebanon last summer. This shows two things: that there are gaps in the Norwegian Arms Export Code and that we are here in an area where the balance between arms exports and control is extra demanding Satisfactory documentation is currently required before an export authorisation is granted. Such documentation may be an end-user declaration. When exporting weapons and other military materials to NATO countries, Norwegian authorities do not require a final declaration or re-port clause. This is a long-term practice based on trust between the parties within the alliance. Today, some NATO countries require such an end-user declaration in some form from allies, including among others. USA, Germany and Italy. Other countries, including, inter alia: Norway, don't have it. However, the reality is that the vast majority of NATO countries have almost the same advanced and strict control regimes regardless of the requirement for some kind of retail declaration. The left is in favour of Norway becoming a spokesman for the whole NATO alliance to adopt a common standard with regard to end-user declaration requirements. The objective is to reconstruct the gaps in the control regimes of the countries. Furthermore, Norwegian parts of the future should be prevented from being part of war equipment deployed in international wars. If Norwegian suppliers have to say no, those asking for the parts should not be able to go to competitors in other NATO countries and get a yes. Finally, the Left calls for an active follow-up to an international instrument adopted by the 2005 UN General Assembly for the marking and tracing of small arms. The target should be binding international rules which also include ammunition and enable weapons, weapon components and ammunition to be traced back to the purchaser. This appears to have an inhibitory effect on the illegitimate placing on the market and use of weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e457	The treatment of St.meld. No 19 for 2005-2006, on exports of defence equipment from Norway, and its suspension affect an important and fundamental field of action, giving an opportunity to review annually key dimensions of Norwegian export control and international non-proliferation cooperation. At the same time, it provides this year an opportunity to respond to the request decision of the Storting. 73 of 30 November 2004. The Bondevik II government was then asked to ‘promote a case for the Storting with a comprehensive review of the way in which and in which arenas Norway can best contribute to the work of disarmament and non-proliferation’. I think it is natural to take the opportunity today to provide such a briefing. The work on disarmament and non-proliferation has for a number of years been a priority field of Norwegian foreign policy, on which several speakers have been involved. My predecessor did an active and good job in this area, for which I would like to acknowledge, and for which I wanted to follow up from the Norwegian side. Norway has participated in international fora, and civil society has been active in various international arenas, including the United States. through the movement of peace. Unfortunately, in recent years there has been a standstill in the work on disarmament and non-proliferation, on which the representative Nybakk was involved. Yes, I would say it is so strong that the multilateral disarmament and non-proliferation machinery has been almost debilitating. This has been highlighted most clearly in the agreement on non-proliferation of nuclear weapons – NPT – and in the disarmament negotiations in Geneva. The NPT provides the framework for nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. In my view, it is imperative to ring, protect and further strengthen this agreement. At the same time, we are witnessing a worrying development in the proliferation of nuclear weapons, with North Korea as the most obvious example. In addition, there is a risk that several countries may be in the process of following up. The uncertainty surrounding Iran's nuclear programme persists. In addition, there are indications that various terrorist groups want access to weapons of mass destruction. That's a very scary scenario. We also have to recognize that in the short term there will hardly be any new large cuts in nuclear arsenals. This too is serious. The texts on which the agreements in this area are based equate work on dissemination with the need for further disarmament. Today, we must avoid nuclear weapons being given a new ‘cleansing’. Not least, it is important not to develop new types of weapons, where the separation between nuclear and conventional weapons is being cleared. All these challenges require the strengthening of the international disarmament and non-proliferation regime. This is also important in the light of another aspect: the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) expects the use of nuclear energy to increase sharply in the coming years. It's a reality we have to deal with. All countries have the right to ensure energy supply, well-being and economic development for their citizens, including through the exploitation of nuclear power – a phenomenon I got close acquainted with during my visit to India last week. At the same time, however, there is a danger that these developments may weaken the multilateral non-proliferation regime and weaken the efforts to prevent the proliferation of nuclear technologies for military purposes. This is one of the challenges of the agreement concluded between the United States and India on civil nuclear cooperation. The agreement will involve the placing of the civil nuclear power plants in India under IAEA security controls and the implementation by India of measures in the field of non-proliferation and export control. This is positive in itself. At the same time, we are concerned that India assumes additional obligations, in particular as regards disarmament, the cessation of the production of fissile material and the signing of the CTBT Test Stop Agreement. This I expressed in my conversations with the Indian authorities during the visit to New Dehli last week, and this attitude the Government will maintain within the framework of the Nuclear Suppliers Group – NSG – where we also hope that a compromise can be found in relation to India's programme. I would like to highlight our work on the so-called seven-country initiative for nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation, which has been mentioned here, which was launched prior to the 2005 UN Summit. This initiative — which includes, in addition to us, Australia, Chile, Indonesia, Romania, the United Kingdom and South Africa — contributes to increasing attention to the importance of nuclear disarmament. I have, as mentioned, prioritised following up this initiative. Progress opportunities lie in work that includes, first, measures to strengthen the non-proliferation regime and, second, the possibility of referring to concrete actions in the area of disarmament. This is the driving force behind the seven-country initiative. Our approach has proved to bring together broad international support, even though several of the nuclear powers are sceptical about such initiatives. Overall, Norway has developed a position in the field of disarmament and non-proliferation through the initiative. We are being listened to, and these are expectations from many countries, from the Secretary-General of the United Nations and from the IAEA that we should continue our commitment. Norway will do the same. I can mention that in June this year Norway took an initiative with the IAEA to look at how to limit the use of high-rich uranium in the civil sector. A major international conference in Oslo was devoted to this theme, with wide participation of experts from many countries. Norway is also well in the process of working closely with, among other things. Indonesia. Our two countries recently organised a successful conference on nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament for the countries of Southeast Asia. This gave us a good opportunity to contribute to measures to strengthen the work of non-proliferation and export control in this important region. Cooperation with Indonesia will continue under the Seventh Country Initiative. Furthermore, Norway, alone and together with other countries in the abovementioned seven-country circuit, and with the EU and the United Nations, has contributed to increasing the knowledge and capacity of developing countries in terms of non-proliferation, with particular emphasis on UNSCR 1540 and export control. It is about building a capacity in these countries to respect their international obligations. We will continue this work as well. Norway is actively contributing to other non-proliferation action initiatives. I can mention our involvement in North-West Russia with the dismantling of nuclear submarines, which is an important environmental measure, and also a good Norwegian contribution to the G8 partnership against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Norway is also actively participating in the Non-Proliferation Initiative – PSI. The same applies to the various export control regimes in which we participate. At the same time, Norway is working to attract disarmament and non-proliferation more strongly into NATO contexts, including: through close cooperation with Germany. I notice that there is an increasing recognition in NATO of the importance of nuclear disarmament. The Seventh Country Initiative provides Norway with a good venue to build new alliances and to promote nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation through concrete, practical and feasible actions, which appear to be taking place. This is a challenging task, but through a balanced, holistic approach, we can help create broad international consensus. And this is important when we are about to launch the course towards the 2010 Non-Proliferation Surveillance Conference. Norway’s export control is a central part of our efforts both to prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction to other countries and to prevent terrorist groups from accessing such weapons. I have noticed that there is a broad consensus in Stortinget about the line that the Government has continued and developed in terms of transparency regarding Norwegian exports of defence equipment. It is our opinion that there should be the most transparency on these issues. There are several ways in which several representatives have been involved. This year, for example, for the first time, transparency in the export of small arms and in the use of own property by defence authorities abroad. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will continue a close and good dialogue with the Norwegian business community on export controls and with civil organisations on these important issues, and we will arrange, for example, for example. an annual conference for Norwegian industry on export controls for the Norwegian exporters concerned. I also want to see if it is possible to further strengthen this transparency line, in line with the Committee's recommendation, and I will keep in close contact with the Storting on this. In order to get back to the big message, it is the Government’s position that Norway should be a leading country in strict control of arms exports and technologies that can be used for the manufacture of weapons and must continue to exercise strict control over the countries to which it is to be exported. This is particularly important at a time when unstable and unsafe situations exist in a number of countries and regions. Moreover, as the Committee stresses, it is of central importance to make strict demands on the respect of fundamental human rights in the recipient countries in question. The export figures vary, as mentioned earlier, between DKK 2.5 and 3 billion, and the main weight of our exports goes to NATO and to the Nordic countries. This will also be the case in the future. Finally, let me stress that public attention to Norwegian arms exports in the media, among representatives, in expert environments and in civil society is positive. The government will do its job to contribute to an active dialogue in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e516	This message is very positive, and it is better than the previous ones when it is valid to be willing to inform. In discussing the export notification, we need to see it in the light of developments within the military-industrial complex. In addition, we have to take inward what we want to be here. What do we want the nation of Norway to appear as? On the one hand, we want to appear as a nation of peace. It has to be balanced against the fact that we are also a very large arms exporter. If we look at what's happening in the arms industry, we see that there's a huge privatisation going on. We know from other sectors that are privatised that there is always a great demand for corresponding control. Historically, France has been working towards privatisation. In France, one has always had a desire to have State control, and still has one. Norway is also an example of a country where, to a lesser extent, other European countries have sold themselves into the state arms industry. Looking at developments in the future through WEAG and those who have taken over there, EDA, there is no doubt that there is a pressure to get even more privatisation of the arms industry. We know that one after the Cold War has actually restructured – which we are also in the process of Norway – the European arms industry. A spent billions of dollars within the EU to put down the arms industry, to restructure it, even when it's crazy bases, etc. It was very much positive in it. Unfortunately, what happened after 11 September, and also in connection with the Treaty of Nice in 2000, was that the arms industry was speeding up again. We see that Europe and the United States are once again being refurbished. Asia and what goes on there, I'm not going to take over now, but there's no doubt that we have a huge need for control after the privatisation that has happened. If we look at the use of controls, even in the EU there is its proposal for a constitution and also in other treaties a larger lead on increased control than what we have been given in Norway. So here we can learn from the EU in some contexts. Once one's privatized, one has also decided to ban in the long term, or at least to start trying to get away, what we in Norway very often talk about in connection with arms-material, easy repurchase. In the previous period, the then state councillor Hilde Frafjord Johnson did a great job of cutting off aid, that is. that when we allow money for assistance, there is absolutely no automatic way that Norwegian companies will get the contracts. This is a work that has started well and that has continued in other countries, but which has reached the goal we really want in a near future. In the arms industry, we have the same theme in relation to repurchase. There is no doubt that this buy-back institution is in the process of falling. There we should look at how we can contribute to it in Norway. We see it in the big deal that we have in Norway in connection with the possible repurchasing of fighter aircraft, where we are already meeting it in the one offer, the US. There's not really a repurchase mechanism at all, but if there's any competition, in case we're going to choose it, one in Sweden and the European option, of course, is still using the old repurchase methods. So what's the most driving thing about us spending too much money on the arms industry, I'm actually not sure, but that we have to shape our weapon policy according to what's happening within the military-industrial complex, there's no doubt about it. And there must be no need there to base our use of weapons in this Parliament and in other parliaments. Last time, for example. air power being discussed. The problem within the air force is that the enemy does not have what the air power has been estimated to be useful. The enemy has no tanks. The enemy has no air power. Last year's wars kind of have our war in the blind, because the enemy doesn't have this. The enemy is in completely different locations than we thought, and is out of proportion to what the European or, in that case, the US arms industry produces. Now, once again, whether we like it or not, one of the greatest threats is, of course, climate problems and CO2 emissions. They're a big problem in themselves. Worse still, one of the solutions to this is the development and development of the nuclear industry, by spreading technology, which of course can also be used for non-energy purposes. This indicates that the non-proliferation regime should only be developed; it should only be expanded and made much better. If the countries that do not want to sign such an agreement are to be trusted, I do not know what is going to happen to make them. But making agreements with countries that do not want to sign a non-proliferation agreement seems, at least for me, to be very unprofessional. We have to say that in this context. In the daytime, the cat sprang out of the bag by Ehud Olmert ramming up nuclear weapons states, among his own land, Israel. We know the background for that, with Norwegian heavy water, Dimona and all that. I won't go into it. But it shows how important it is that nuclear technology is not spread, and at least not in such a way that it can be used militarily. Finally, I would just like to recall what from 1959 has actually been our main goal of Norwegian arms exports: not to export to areas where war threatens or wars are going on. At the same time, we know that the noble motive is partially beaten in all of our alliance obligations. We're going to take care of it, because it can put us in the situation that we are actually joining in on wars that we in the spirit are opposed to. We know, of course, that the big arms export in the last year is due to the fact that there are some wars going on. It's clear that in SV we're going to defend our alliance commitments, but this can be about threatening the association and the dissolution of the alliance of the Norwegian people, if they find that being in an alliance means that one must actually be in on wars that one in the spirit is against.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e550	On the basis of the unanimous committee position, I had not really intended to ask for the word, but this got a bit more content than we knew in advance. I am thinking of the interesting thing in that, as far as I understood him, the Foreign Minister used the opportunity to ‘wait out’ a request from the Storting about the government’s work on disarmament and non-proliferation. That was to the extent that some interesting points of view he made in the context of how complicated it is, not least in the borderline between civil and military applications of nuclear technology, but also on the dissemination side. It's not just about which states have this, but other networks, completely different groupings, and the new dangers that come into the wake of it. But nevertheless: I am a little surprised if it is such that the Minister of Foreign Affairs meant to sign out a request from Stortinget. In Decision No 73, of 30 November 2004 – probably two years ago – it said: ‘The Government is asking the Government to promote a case for the Storting with a comprehensive review of the way in which and in which arenas Norway can best contribute to the work on disarmament and non-proliferation.’ A letter from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs one year later, on 29 August last year, states: ‘A comprehensive statement on Norwegian involvement and areas of action in disarmament and non-proliferation is under way. The government will come back to Stortinget with a case about this." That is why I am stunned if it is such as to understand that this was meant to be a receipt of this request. I think it's going to be a slightly simplified variation of the relationship between big business and government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e567	In the request decision No: 73, of 30 November 2004, which was a position of the Defence Committee on civil-military cooperation, it was asked, as has been said here, to promote ‘a cause for the Stortinge with an overall review of the way in which and in which arenas Norway can best contribute to the work of disarmament and non-proliferation’. This was in 2004. After that, much has been done by the Norwegian side in the area of non-proliferation and disarmament of nuclear weapons, in different arenas. Today, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has given a very thorough account of both the initiatives taken and taken by the Government and taken by the previous government – let me stress that, Jan Petersen deserves praise for his initiatives – and on which arenas, and what kind of cooperation Norway has in the international community in the important job of nuclear disarmament, and not least preventing dispersal. The most important thing that Norway is currently involved is the seven-country group set up, where Norway has developed a position in the field of disarmament and non-proliferation, not only as an initiator in order to get to the group itself – where both NATO countries and non-NATO countries are involved, which is a strength in this context – but also because of the work done with the aim of strengthening non-proliferation cooperation and getting into action in the field of disarmament. I have also noticed that the Minister for Foreign Affairs presented the activities of the IAEA and other disarmament forums, as well as bilateral cooperation with several countries, among others. Indonesia. He also mentioned the important work in North-West Russia. The working party is satisfied with this statement in response to the request decision. We believe that we have been properly briefed on the work being done internationally in the field of disarmament on nuclear weapons and nuclear issues, both in order to achieve disarmament, in order to ensure that we do not receive further dispersal – and that is very much the case in today’s world – in order to prevent further transfer of competences and to clean up nuclear waste, so that it cannot be used in so-called ‘dirty bombs’. As I said, we are pleased with the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e580	I noticed the representative of Vallersnes’ posts. In the light of the Committee's thorough attitude, I wanted to focus my contribution on an assessment of the ongoing work on disarmament and non-proliferation. Let me just say that the government is of course open to come back to Stortinget again and in the form that Stortinget wanted, to shed light on these questions. I would like to underline what the representative Nybakk said, that this is a field of very development, where we have focused on maintaining continuity in terms of the initiatives and profile that Norway has had over several years – also by following initiatives taken by the previous government – while taking new initiatives and developing what we have been working on. I hoped in my post to be able to give a picture of this development and the initiatives that have been taken, but I am of course responsive to return to the Stortinge in the best possible way with information that can provide the basis for debate on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e587	I have not registered any serious factual disagreement with regard to the content of the foreign minister developed in his post. At the same time, I am a little surprised when the representative Nybakk says that from the point of view of the Labour Party, this post is an adequate response to a request decision from Stortinget, who explicitly asks for a case presented to Stortinget. If the request decision had been worded differently, e.g.: that the Storting asks the Government to come back to Stortinge in an appropriate way, I would have accepted such an interpretation, but as far as I can see, this does not fall within the framework of the unwritten rules of the relationship between government and greatness. The fact that a lot has happened, both during the previous government and during the current government, in terms of finding a proper role for Norway in the international context of disarmament work, rather argues that it is desirable for the Storting to have this produced in writing. The difference between a case and the proper return to the Storting is precisely that if the Storting is to do the job of creating a basis for a wide-ranging debate in the Storting, it assumes that the Government is making a written statement suitable for such proceedings in the Storting. I think everything speaks for this is such an important matter. If there is a new movement in this area after a period of international standstill, there is an additional reason why it would be desirable for the Stortinget to be able to have such a review and to have a broad debate, where the parties in the Stortinget can also contribute their views on how Norway should strengthen its efforts in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e595	I repeat that we find the form that Stortinget wants on this communication. Let me just explain the background that we now did what we did. There is a request decision from the 2004–2005 Storing Session, where the Government asks the Government to bring forward a case for the Storing with a comprehensive review of the way in which and in which arenas [[...]] Is it desirable that the government promote a matter where this is elaborated in writing, we do of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e604	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1644]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e620	It is a pleasure to be able to present a unanimous opinion of the Foreign Affairs Committee on this matter, which results from a recording by three representatives in the Right on a very topical theme in a country located in the centre of Europe, and where developments for several years have been very worrying. If there are ways in which Norway can contribute, which can promote positive democratic development, we should look at it. The Committee has conducted consultations with environments and organisations with particular knowledge of developments in Belarus, and has received many good input in this way. This consultation appeared to be an idea-making exercise, in which various proposals have emerged. Some of the proposals that the Committee believes should be worked on are included in the vote. One of the main problems with recent developments in Belarus — and more likely to be negative — is isolation, which is largely self-imposed. The lack of contact and the lack of access to impulses from the outside world is a common denominator. The fact that we can contribute in different ways to disseminating information into Belarus, to the extent that it is possible for the Belarusian population to experience a world outside and get inspiration, is important. This applies not least to youth groups, student communities and other groups, but perhaps in particular to young people and students, it is natural to work towards it. Now you can ask yourself, why hasn't the people of Belarus protested more? Why have they not taken even greater responsibility for promoting faster democratic development, as we have, for example. Have we seen countries like Ukraine and Georgia, and as we have seen in Eastern and Central Europe in the past? Now I think there's a lot of explanations about that, not least the relative totalitarian pressure of the Belarusian authorities on the population. Reflecting on the situation of Belarus, I think you should take over the history of the country, which is probably not unique, but the Belarusian country – and its inhabitants – has experienced being a battlefield in history. One army after another has wandered over Belarusian territory, with a population that has suffered great congestion. You don't have to spend a lot of time talking to whites until you understand that here the story is important, and it means a lot, naturally enough. The last few years have therefore appeared to be relatively stable in a historical context. Of course, stability and peace are of great value. At the same time, the Belarusian regime has provided some economic security, not least to the socially disadvantaged and to pensioners. At least it is clear to its own population that it is an oasis of peace and economic stability, as opposed to the outside world, which seems insecure and to be in great change. As long as cheap energy has been available from Russia, there has been the possibility of maintaining some degree of economic stability. Wages and salaries have come in time for state enterprises, and not least for pensioners – albeit a small one – they have received a pension, but the pension has arrived. It has probably been important for the regime to be able to exist. Different international organisations will play a role here. There can be no target for Norway alone to assume responsibility for promoting a change in Belarus. Different organisations will play different roles here. We point to the setting, for example: on the UN and the OSCE, where Belarus is de facto a member, and here you can enter into a dialogue. I know a little about the OSCE's work in this area and I know that there's a lot going on. I am also pleased to say that within the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly it is now a renewed activity and there is a constructive dialogue with Belarusian politicians. You have the ability here to address the difficult questions as well, and there are open channels. I believe that, on the one hand, we must work with this dialogue and these channels, while, on the other hand, there must be targeted sanctions from, among other things. Norway, under the direction of the EU. These things have to work in parallel. People for people-cooperation is a keyword in the setting we're presenting. You have to search for contacts below the authority level. I mentioned student and youth groups, to the extent that they can motivate within trade union groups, not least human rights groups and the democratic opposition in Belarus. Many points of contact on a broad basis are important. The unanimous vote of the Committee concludes by asking the Government to draw up a broad strategy on how to deal with the situation in Belarus. It is in line with the proposal of the three Right-wing Representatives. We know that the government is doing a good job in this area. This is a strengthening and follow-up of it – and perhaps some ideas that the Government can take with it on how to concretely put forward the work in the future and strengthen it, so that, hopefully, within not too long, we can see that developments in Belarus are more in line with what we experience in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e639	It is a very good, unanimous and important matter we are dealing with here today. Belarus is Europe's backyard in many ways and is the last dictatorship that we in Europe must care about even more. That is why I am pleased that the Government of the State Budget increased support for civil society in Belarus. This is badly needed money that can come out of it very well, and is not least absolutely necessary and crucial if we are to contribute to democratic development in the country. Supporting civil society and the opposition in the country is the most effective outside world can do in the fight for democratisation. The main challenge lies in how best to organise the use of the funds we allocate. For it is far from being such that support for the opposition in Belarus is an easy task to communicate or manage. We know that the conditions for organizations and oppositionals are getting worse and worse. Under the Lukashenko regime, Belarus has become increasingly authoritarian and is today a regime with extensive use of censorship, repression and direct persecution of political opposition. Most of the press's activities and organisational life are underground, all the time such activities have been criminalised by Lukashenko and people who are considered to be oppositional, disappearing or being arrested. All activism strikes it down. Those who endure and take the fight in spite of all of this deserve our support, and they need to know that the world community is following and supporting them. If there is to be a change and a shift to a more democratic development in Belarus, it must be done from within by contributing to civil society's emergence and take up the fight. Over ten years of isolation policy from the outside world cannot be said to have changed much or moved the rulers in the desired direction. It is essential that the Belarusians do not stop hearing that democratisation and respect for human rights will give economic and political participation in Europe, and that the world community continues to press the regime, but at the same time must do more to build and support internal opposition and not least raise awareness of the lack of rights in parts of the population. Lukashenko claimed to have won 83 pst. by votes in a elections condemned by Western observers in winter. The real support he has in the population is hard to predict, but it doesn't surprise me if it had given him back coverage for another period in the presidential chair if so the election had been democratic. As long as the regular whites don't feel the abuses and don't long for change, little will happen to ward off the abuses of democratic principles and human rights. The situation of the students has worsened, because like so many other places, it is mainly among the students that you find the most politically conscious, and it is those that are hardest hit when the authorities are going to show muscles. Students engaged in innocent activities such as handing out flyers, hanging up posters and participating in peaceful demonstrations have both been expelled from their universities and have recently been arrested. It is therefore essential not only to condemn the abuses of authorities but to support the movement of young people and students in a concrete and comprehensive way. They are the possibility of future information, rebellion and democratic change for Europe's last dictatorship. Did you never experience the Soviet Union, but wonder what it was like – take a trip to Belarus, it's advertised in a travel catalogue. They are right in that, and Lukashenko is constantly dreaming of restoring the Union. The country's ten million inhabitants, on the other hand, deserve something better. As long as it doesn't matter who votes in Belarus, but who counts the votes, we have to do everything we can to support the democratic forces in Belarus.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e660	Anyone who knows the Storting's work will know that it is relatively rare that representatives' proposals come together from the whole Stortinget. It is therefore particularly gratifying to note that this proposal for a representative has received the wholehearted support of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Yesterday, Finland’s Prime Minister Matti Vanhanen, in his capacity as President of the European Council, made a remarkable contribution to the European Parliament in Brussels, discussing the EU’s enlargement problem in general and rejecting the view that there is a geographical frontier for Europe that would be possible to move somewhere or other specific on the ground. Any such boundary drawing, says Vanhanen, would be pointless. The only limits that exist for Europe as a political project are those based on values, which are defined in the criteria defined to be considered at all as candidate countries for EU membership. After expressing these general considerations, Vanhanen says the following: ‘The construction of Europe is a project that is under development, while there are still black democratic gaps like Belarus close by. A shame for Europe, there should be no such places left in Europe.’ There are very strong words from a head of state that are otherwise not known for using large words in exorcism. But what makes Vanhanen's contributions to the European Parliament even more important is that in a later section of the same speech he also puts this in the context of the EU's neighbourhood relationship with Russia, which is the major foreign policy challenge for the European Union in the years to come. Of course, Vanhanen is right in saying that a regime like Lukashenko's regime in Belarus would not have been conceivable if it had not been for Russia's political interests. Lukashenko would have been gone long ago if it had not been for the whole-hearted support of Putin, and because Putin has defined this as part of Russia's power interest and fixed the grip on Belarus stronger and stronger. It's not hard to see what's behind it. It is about the future energy policy in Europe and Russia's ability to use energy policy as a power policy media against other countries. In the last part of his speech in the European Parliament yesterday, Matti Vanhanen said the following: ‘I am not sure at all that Russia is moving in the right direction. We need to see a stronger commitment to democracy, to the legal community and to the market economy. We don't want Russia moving in an authoritarian direction. We have good reasons to be concerned about the path of development in Russia.’ To come from a Finnish Prime Minister, this is also an unusually clear and strong message. It is essential for the Government to follow up the demands of the Grand Duchy in this proposal for a representative, that this perspective be constantly included – because the political problems in Belarus are so much related to the political problems in Russia. It is therefore also important that Norwegian policies to contribute to the possible decoration and possible democratic development of the interior of Belarus are coordinated with Norwegian policies towards Russia. As we all know, finding the right policy instruments in our communication with Russia is a challenge at least as great for Norway as it is for the EU Member States. In a November interview with journalists from Ukraine, Lukashenko stated that the actual election result – which you could enjoy – showed an upsurge of 93.5 pst. But in order for the percentage not to seem too striking, and for it to seem a little more lenient to the outside world, he had told us to reduce it to 86. Of course, you can view this as a joke, but really it's deeply serious. It shows what people can allow when they have long been sole rulers of a society. Now the situation is that Putin has tightened the economic grip on Belarus quite considerably. All the economic advantages he gave for Lukashenko to have the necessary suspension in the election, he has withdrawn. So you've come to the stage when you have to pay the bills. At the same time, the EU is likely to withdraw the economic trade benefits of Belarus. It's going to be billions in U.S. dollars per. years above the Belarusian State budget. This economic situation could affect the population in a way that no one wants. The dilemma of all forms of trade sanctions in this world is that in order for them to be able to target them in the longer term, namely the representatives of the oppressive regime, they usually go wrong. We have to look at the real dilemma in our eyes. The important thing about the proposal that has been put forward is that from the Norwegian side we look at the other end of the scale of the instrument in order to find the positive means to establish contact with the Belarusian population and, not least, with the political opposition in Belarus. The Belarusian opposition leader, Milinkevich, received for his struggle for human rights a short time ago the highest award awarded within the EU system, namely the Sakharov Prize. This is an unusually strong signal from Brussels to the regime in Minsk. There is reason to stress that if one is to have political opportunities to fill the black democratic gap with something else, it is the European integration process and the political influence the EU is able to exercise, which is the card on which to bet. There is really only one element I miss in the unanimous position of the Foreign Affairs Committee, and that is the reference to the importance of Nordic cooperation in this context. The Nordic Council of Ministers has provided not insignificant funds to support the development of democracy in Belarus. Together with the EU, the Nordic Council of Ministers is one of the largest sponsors of the European Humanities University, the Academy of Sciences for Belarusian students. It's in Vilnius. Last Saturday I had the pleasure of representing the Nordic Council at the 15th anniversary of the Baltic Assembly. A Belarusian opposition politician had also been invited to deliver a greeting. In this context, I agreed to make a proposal to invite the Nordic Council and the Baltic Assembly to a seminar during 2007 to try to bring together both Belarusian exile politicians, opposition politicians and representatives of the regime. Only through small steps towards a real conversation is it possible to achieve the goal of a democratic Belarus. In the long term, however, the most important investment will be the investment we make in the provision of education for young people from Belarus. At that time, it is very good to think that the university that is established is called European Humanities University. It underlines Matti Vanhanen's point that it is the value-based community in Europe that is involved and not random geographical boundaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e698	The President has never made any comments earlier – either of a positive or a negative nature – but in this case I will allow myself to say that I agree with any word that was said here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e701	The situation of the Belarusian opposition has been further exacerbated following the presidential election on 19 March this year. Several opposition leaders and activists have been imprisoned following closed cases in which judges have imposed penalties under criminal law. Furthermore, there is systematic discrimination against opposition workers in the allocation of study places, funding for studies and jobs. It strikes down all criticisms of the regime. Western action against Belarus has mainly been to restrict Belarusian leaders by refusing them visas. Among other things, the EU and the United States have taken such measures, followed by Norway. Visa refusal is not considered to have a significant practical significance but a signal power. This became clear after the management of Minsk carried out protests in the OSCE. In addition, Western countries have threatened to freeze accounts, which has proved to be difficult, as they are not easily traceable. In parallel with this, the EU has maintained economic incentives: if Belarus releases political prisoners free and leaves it to pursue oppositionals, economic benefits are offered. The left considers it important to increase pressure on the regime in Minsk, both bilaterally, through multilateral forums and through increased support for the Belarusian opposition. Lukashenko must experience that the pressure against him is increasing, both from the inside and from the outside. He must realize that his regime is undesirable in today's Europe. Therefore, the left is behind the Government's plan to increase the opposition's support to 9 million. kr for 2007. Furthermore, we support the request from Stortinget that a strategy be developed for democratic support for civil society and the opposition in Belarus. The strategy should focus on supporting parties representing the democratic opposition, human rights groups and NGOs as well as free trade unions and students. This should include, inter alia: grants to students, professors and researchers who have been terminated due to political activity or who have been deprived of the opportunity to finance their activities. Furthermore, the families of the opposition members in prison should receive help. This should be done through both formal and informal channels. Furthermore, the strategy should focus on meeting places, protection and dissemination of information. A central objective should be to weaken the information monopoly of the regime. This can be done through support for independent journalists and writers, improved access to free Internet media, support for printing and support for free eter media broadcasting programmes to Belarus from abroad. The left has the following comments on the strategy: Most of the measures targeted at Belarus have two relatively small target groups: those belonging to the regime and the visible part of the opposition. Between these sheiks, most of Belarus’s 10 million inhabitants are. In order to achieve these, the strategy should strengthen people’s people’s cooperation between Norway and Belarus. Visa provisions should be relaxed and more free visas should be distributed. Furthermore, the strategy should contribute to a broader contact between Norwegian and Belarusian civil society, through, inter alia, support for visits and stays. NGOs wishing to engage should be assisted by Norwegian authorities. Another comment is that the strategy should be coordinated with similar efforts from other Western countries. Norwegian authorities should cooperate closely with them, including, inter alia: The EU and the United States, in order to coordinate and target action to promote democracy. Furthermore, multilateral organisations such as the United Nations and the OSCE, where Belarus is a member, should be actively used. I would also like to point out here the cooperation at the Nordic Council, with a view to helping the opposition in Belarus, as the representative of Wage has just mentioned. A third comment relates to the risks associated with opposition activities in Belarus. Last year, the regime passed a law making it punishable for whites to be in contact with other countries or foreign organisations if this contact discredits Belarus. This poses a significant risk to oppositionals who accept outside assistance. Furthermore, there are limits to how much foreign aid they can receive and how effectively they can make use of it. Much of Norwegian support has gone through the Norwegian Helsinki Committee, which has its own channels and partners. I should like to commend the Committee on this point. Finally, I would like to highlight the central role of Russia. The left considers it particularly important to continue the dialogue with Russian authorities. They should help put pressure on Lukashenko. Russia has rightly indicated that they will raise the favourable price they have of gas supplies to Belarus. This is likely to have maximum noticeable consequences for the regime. There's evidence that the Minsk/Moscow ratio is not the best. However, Russia's main concern is hardly to promote democracy in Belarus. Much indicates that Russia's intention is to force a former vassal to obey and to gain increased control over Belarus's energy sector. It remains to be seen what consequences this will have for the regime in Minsk. Much indicates that the pressure on Lukashenko will increase from more teams in time – from Russia, from the international community and from the internal opposition in Belarus. How the regime manages the upcoming local elections could provide an indication of the effectiveness of this pressure. For the Left, it is important to stress that all political messages addressed the Minsk regime, and all help to the opposition, should have non-violence as a cross-cutting theme. The non-violent upheavals in Ukraine and Georgia set a standard that Belarus should also follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e740	I'm not going to extend another very good, interesting and important debate on what the representative on the payroll called a black hole. That's a good definition of what's going on in Belarus. I just want to stress that the Government, as this House knows, is committed to supporting democratic forces in Belarus. We are in the process of developing a policy strategy for our efforts and increasing aid from 5 million. NOK to SEK 9 million. kr next year. That effort will be directed towards the opposition and civil society, for their help. People for people-cooperation will be particularly important, and we will continue to support Norwegian non-governmental organisations working with opposition parties and human rights organisations in the country. We will help create meeting places for the opposition both inside and outside Belarus. Particular attention will be paid to youth settings and cultural organisations, as well as media and student exchanges, as set out in the call for proposals. On the Norwegian side, we also prioritise work on human rights and democracy in Belarus through the Council of Europe and the OSCE, and then in cooperation with several countries. We focus on not providing support for projects or measures that can be taken into account for the income of President Lukashenko's regime, while joining the EU's sanctions against the regime. This applies, for example: an extended entry ban for the regime and the freezing of accounts. Let me add that the comments that have fallen on Russia, I join in saying that there is confusion around Russia's direction as to where democracy will land and whether it is a democracy. It is one of the major political uncertainties we face in our part of the world. At the same time, there is a better situation – and we must emphasise it – in Russia and in Eastern Europe than it was 10-20 years ago, so that the main flow has gone in the right direction, but we have the black holes and critical developments. Finally, what I would like to stress is that, in relation to this strategy aimed at Belarus, we in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have also stressed the need to review our traditional human rights work against this part of Europe. Here we had one special experience during the Cold War and during the Communist Communities, where Norwegian human rights work had a significant profile and device. For natural reasons, we have had a different focus in recent years due to developments in this part of Europe. But both the efforts against Belarus and what is now happening in Russia in relation to civil society – freedom of expression and association – make it natural to look at the work on human rights in a comprehensive perspective in this part of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e751	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1644]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e771	This we've been waiting for so long, it's called. There has been travel both in the department and in Stortinget, but this interpellation debate we finally managed to plan for today, just before Christmas. And I'm glad. Since the WTO Doha Round collapsed this summer, it has been uncertain what would happen with regard to the possible conclusion of the round of negotiations, but also with regard to the bet on alternatives. From the Norwegian side, it is not least timely to ask about the impact on Norwegian exports, but also on developing countries’ market access, with the significant commitment we have in Norway to development aid. It is therefore important to know whether the Government believes it is realistic that WTO negotiations will continue. Now there are only two weeks since the budget debate here in the room on development aid, how many were more concerned with figures than with the interaction between several factors, where trade with developing countries was one of the most important. When we called for a broader approach from the Right, several of the speakers of the government parties pointed out that the continuation of WTO negotiations would take that into account. But is that realistic? Not only has one driven itself firmly thematically. In addition, President Bush's negotiating mandate expires in the summer, and Congressional elections in the United States now in November also contributed to reducing opportunities. I am not going to wonder here and now whether an excessive focus on defensive interests has led us into a blind street that costs us dearly in terms of our offensive interests in the export of goods and services industries. In any case, it is obvious that the negative impact of the collapse results in Norway and most other countries applying for alternative solutions. The result is that there is a bloom of interest in bilateral free trade agreements, Free Trade Agreements. For its part, EFTA has concluded 16 such free trade agreements, has also concluded negotiations with Egypt and negotiates further with Canada, the Gulf States, Thailand and Algeria. It has also been reported in the news that Norway will give priority to new agreements with India, Japan, China and Russia. Through EFTA, Norway is currently a member of one of the world’s two largest networks of free trade agreements. The agreements cover a total of about 50 countries, with a potential for export of Norwegian products to about 50 countries. 850 million consumers. Only the EU has a network of free trade agreements that can match that. This type of bilateral negotiations is not only about trade in goods but also, among other things, about trade in goods. on trade in services, on investments, on conditions of competition, on copyright and on technical standards. It is therefore quite alarming that the SV and also the Central Party have quietly accepted the trade agreement between EFTA and the countries of southern Africa, SACU, which contains clauses of the kind that parties opposed in the WTO negotiations. The agreement will not only ensure Norwegian fish free access to markets in South Africa, Namibia, Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland. These countries also undertake to release Norwegian investors on exactly the same terms as their own business. Such investment agreements which prohibit positive specific conditions for domestic actors have been highly controversial, including in the WTO. Controversy is also the objective of the agreement that countries should open their public procurement to imports from outside. These matters are among the controversial, so-called ‘Singapore themes’, which, alongside agriculture, have hindered consensus in the WTO round. Therefore, there is reason to ask whether the Government bases requirements, standards and standards on the free trade agreements other than those in the WTO negotiations. However, EFTA is not alone in this field. Both the United States and the EU are active, and here is a sort of race for access to markets in rapidly growing economies in other parts of the world. In October, EU Trade Commissioner Peter Mandelson announced that the Union would like to negotiate bilateral trade agreements with countries such as India and Russia. During the Pacific Summit in Vietnam in November this year, the United States and New Zealand launched plans for a free trade area extending from the United States to Russia and from Chile to Australia: An area of 40 pst. of the world's population and 56 pst. GDP. What we're seeing here is that the world's leaders are reforming the plans to compensate for the loss of a global free trade agreement by concluding bilateral and regional agreements. According to Peter Mandelson, the EU wants – in the same way as EFTA – something more than bilateral agreements on industrial products. They shall also regulate services, investment, competition policy and public procurement. The major losers in this process are the small and poorest countries, which have nothing to offer in particular in the bilateral agreements negotiations. Therefore, this becomes even more a process in which the meat weight counts. Another loser is the World Trade Organisation, the WTO, which is weakened as an organisation after the collapse of Geneva. The lack of a new global trade agreement is likely to lead to an increasing number of trade conflicts and to a complaint against the WTO, and many of them will be targeted at the main actors, in particular the EU and the United States. The serious question then is whether a weakened WTO will also lead to a lack of respect for the WTO as a dispute resolution body. In that case, it will be the strongest right that applies, and not so good to be among the small countries of the world. It is on this background that I am calling for the Government's view on a number of issues: how one assesses the status of the WTO negotiations impact on Norway of the increasing bilateralisation of alternative trade policies or instruments that the Government assesses what Norway can do in this situation to meet the needs of the developing countries, as part of our overall commitment to developing poor countries in the south
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e812	I share with the representative Vallersnes’ assessment that the lack of agreement on an agreement in the WTO negotiations is unfortunate. Vallersnes’ interpellation is timely and gives a good opportunity to brief on the status of the negotiations here in this Chamber and perhaps to have a debate on some of the outstanding issues. Doha negotiations were suspended in July this year. It happened despite a generally expressed willingness to conclude the negotiations, and despite the fact that many thought that the distance was no greater than that it would have been possible to bridge the contradictions. The big actors signaled the will to move, assuming that others were moving. The problem is – and this is a classic problem – that none of them want to move first, for fear that the concessions will be collected without getting anything back from the others. However, in addition to the autumn, WTO members have built up an impatience and a desire to resume negotiations. In a meeting of the Committee for the Review of Negotiations on 16 November this year, Director-General Lamy of the WTO gave a clear signal that the negotiating bodies could resume their work by means of signals from the Member States. Despite suspension, there has been a busy meeting activity in the last few months, so the chairman-led meeting activity has started again in the last few weeks. However, no one can say with certainty how the further process will develop. In time, Member States have to deal with the fact that the President’s negotiating mandate expires on 30 June 2007. The signals from the United States are mixed in relation to whether the U.S. Congress will extend its mandate. It is also uncertain to what extent the French presidential election next spring will affect the EU's negotiating strategy. If negotiations are not successful in 2007, negotiations can be postponed for several years to come. At best, the gradual and informal launch of technical — and after each policy — discussions will lead to new movements. The key issues where concrete progress will have to be made are the issues of tariff reductions for agricultural products, reductions in agricultural aid and customs reductions for industrial products. In addition, the heavy parties are well apart in the areas of services and trade in non-agricultural goods. As in other contexts, it is also here that ‘everything is related to everything’. This must be a political will for us to move forward. It is also necessary that the results provide real new opportunities for developing countries. Premises in Doha in 2001 require this. For the time being, there are few signs of movement in these questions. In my view, it is not necessarily such that the distance between the parties is insurmountable, as I said. Rather, the negotiating situation has made it very difficult to take the first steps further. Norway is dependent on a strong and committed multilateral trade regime, with clear driving rules to meet the challenges of globalisation. As the winner of this year's Nobel Peace Prize, Dr. Yunus, it said in its speech so vividly and strikingly: ‘For me, globalisation is like a hundred-field highway crossing the globe. If it's clear to everyone on this highway, all the fields will be taken over by giant cars from the big economies of the world. Rickshawene from Bangladesh will be pushed out of the highway. In order to create a win-win situation, we need traffic rules, traffic police and traffic authorities for this global motorway.’ The government believes that Norway’s interests are served by the success of this Doha Round. It is obvious to our offensive interests and to our desire to support developing countries in getting new opportunities at a pace and scale adapted to their own development. In addition, a postponement of negotiations could lead to even tougher demands on our defensive interests — agriculture — at a later stage. Therefore, in line with the agreed agreement of the Stortinget on several occasions in the past, the Government continues to work actively to get a good and balanced result from the Doha negotiations. While we are working towards a comprehensive agreement, we see that the number of bilateral or regional free trade agreements has increased sharply in recent years, as the representative of Vallersnes addressed in the interpellation and in the inauguration. At the same time as WTO negotiations, these developments are expected to continue – and to an increasing extent. Other countries, including The EU has signaled that they are going to intensify this work. These developments must not undermine the value of the multilateral trading system. The consequences can be reduced by international clarity of trade policy legislation and distortions of competition in a way that does not serve economic growth and development. Because in such a negotiating environment, the interests of the major countries can become dominant, while smaller and medium-sized countries can be harmed, because the negotiating power is so unevenly distributed. Our economic interests are best served by the well-functioning multilateral trading system. Although our primary objectives are linked to a strong multilateral system anchored in the WTO, we cannot be passive about our competitors entering into agreements that discriminate against Norwegian business. The government is concerned that Norwegian businesses have as good conditions as their competitors, and we pay particular attention to parallelness with the EU. In this context, Norwegian export interests are also promoted through the active but targeted use of EFTA Free Trade Agreements, as a positive complement to the WTO multilateral regulatory framework. The purpose of the EFTA Agreement is to ensure that Norwegian companies are not discriminated against as a result of the conclusion of trade agreements by countries. This is particularly important for the fishing industry. To date, the EFTA countries have concluded 16 different trade agreements with a total of 20 countries. Negotiations are in progress with Canada, Egypt and Thailand and the Gulf Cooperation Council. As potential partners in a longer-term perspective, the Government prioritises the major markets such as India, Japan and China, and Russia and Ukraine when these countries become members of the WTO. Firstly, it is the Government’s clear objective that the EFTA Agreement does not contribute to the creation of an unbridled system of divergent or conflicting provisions and, secondly, that it complies with and supports WTO principles and legislation. Let me say that the agreement with the South African countries, to which the Storting agreed in the autumn, is an asymmetric agreement which gives SACU countries better conditions than the EFTA countries. The Doha Round shall, as you know, be a development round. This supports Norway. If we fail to achieve an end result for these negotiations, we are at risk of jeopardising the implementation of the progress already achieved for developing countries – yes, there is a danger that they will fall completely away. I am thinking first and foremost of the closure of export subsidies for agricultural products, where we reached an agreement in Hong Kong a year ago – these are the desperateest subsidies for developing countries – and the implementation of duty and quota freedom for 97 pst. of all products from LDCs. In this context, I would like to mention that Norway has already introduced duty-free and quota-free market access, not just for 97 p.m., but for all products from the MUL within the Norwegian Customs preference scheme for developing countries. This objective of strengthening the ability and ability of poor countries to trade is an important point of the Soria Moria Declaration. The government has followed up the good work that was started during the previous government to review the Norwegian Customs Preference System. On behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Norwegian Institute of Foreign Affairs has conducted a comprehensive study as a basis for this review, and I expect in the near future to receive the report from an inter-ministerial working group that has discussed possible improvements. I will return to Stortinget on an appropriate occasion when this ongoing review is completed. The Government believes that some of the most important Norway can contribute to meeting the needs of developing countries is to work towards a negotiated outcome that takes account of the interests of these countries, both through increased market access for their export products and through the necessary flexibility to implement their own obligations. It is also important for developing countries to have a better opportunity to compete on a level playing field with the rich countries' subsidised agricultural products and, in addition, for developing countries to be better able to increase trade between countries, i.e. South-South trade. The government is also working to promote an international trade regime in which environmental, professional and social rights, food security and development in poor countries are given crucial importance. At the same time, while trade is a necessary prerequisite for economic growth, it is not a sufficient prerequisite. In order to exploit the opportunities of participating in international trade, there is a high need for long-term capacity building. That is why we support trade-related assistance, Aid for Trade, and in recent years we have been the largest contributor to the multilateral trade-related technical assistance funds. Finally, following the suspension of the WTO negotiations this summer, the first priority of the Government has been to relaunch the negotiations on the key issues. As part of this work, I have taken an initiative towards five other Member States – Canada, Chile, Indonesia, Kenya and New Zealand – in a dialogue on how together we can contribute to the resumption of negotiations. These are countries with different views in different areas. There are countries from the north and the south that have different interests but share an overall interest in the success of WTO negotiations. Let me stress that the aim of the work is not to negotiate final solutions. It can only take place in a context where all WTO member countries have the opportunity to participate and influence the outcome. However, in that group, three high-level substantive meetings have been held and work will continue over the New Year. It is a work that has been received positively in the negotiating environment as a contribution to keeping the conversations going. It is also a work – to say it on behalf of Norway – to hold Norway in, so that we are positioned on the day the negotiations begin. I hope my response to the representative, Vallersnes, has shown that we should do our part to help re-establish real negotiations, and to get a good end result, where we recognise the Doha promises from 2001. It is important for our own well-being, and it is important for the ability of developing countries to combat poverty through improved trade opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e864	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. While we sit and wait – I would have almost said at Godot – for if there is anything more about the WTO, there is a current situation to deal with. I want to be a little more concrete in two areas. One is how we strengthen Norway's opportunities through the bilateral agreements negotiated. The second is what we can do on the U-country side. With regard to Norway’s opportunities for the internationalisation of Norwegian business, it must be essential for us to provide an equivalent framework for our business and for our competitors. There are more instruments. One instrument that has been advanced in the last year is investment protection agreements. This was commented by the department in a letter to Stortinget dated 24 May this year. These are, therefore, agreements that protect Norwegian foreign investment and foreign investment in Norway and include provisions on non-discrimination, capital movements, the right to compensation in the event of expropriation and access to dispute resolution. Thus, Norway has not concluded new investment protection agreements since the mid-1990s, except with Singapore, but in recent years it has become more common to include provisions on precisely such investment protection in trade agreements. This is largely done by others, including between industrialised countries. The reason why this has come out of the Norwegian agreements is, as far as we can see today, mainly the internal effects of reciprocity in Norway, which have been considered problematic in concluding such new agreements. The two main issues raised are the relationship with the Constitution and the relationship with regulatory access of governments. Our EFTA partners, Switzerland, Iceland and Liechtenstein, want to conclude such investment protection agreements in relation to their free trade agreements through EFTA, and that puts us in a somewhat difficult situation. It was said in the letter from the Department in May that they aim to present the work of the State Secretary's Committee on this matter to the Government in the autumn. I addressed this in a letter to the Ministry on 1 November, with a reply on 8 November, where it was shown that the matter is actively being dealt with and will present a template for Norwegian positions as soon as possible. I want to ask if it can be expected soon. I think it's essential for our agreements to be equivalent to our competitors. Trade promotion in foreign policy must be absolutely essential, so we expect it soon. And then finally, in terms of what we are doing to improve the competitive conditions of the developing countries: can we expect the Government to follow up the Right-wing proposal from the budget debate, to extend the duty exemption for goods from the whole of the developing world, not just the MUL countries? And can we expect further action to help them improve the skills and quality of their exports?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e877	I join the representative of Vallersnes in stressing the importance of ensuring Norway as much as possible as its competitors do. The representative gave a precise summary of our work in relation to investment contracts. That's right what he said, that this has been silent for many years from the Norwegian side. We have worked quite thoroughly on this to find solutions to some of the formal and legal issues related to it. I can tell you that in the new year we expect to have a plan for this through the work we have done, and we hope that we can then get a clear signal to go further with our EFTA partners. With regard to the situation of developing countries and the representative of Vallersnes, I would like to point out to my post – that we will place the decisive emphasis on this finding its solution in the current negotiations, if and when they were to get up again. I also refer to the work that we are doing at the Norwegian Institute of Foreign Policy in order to obtain a survey of the preferential arrangements in place, with a view to giving increased trade access on the basis of that material.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e886	I have the impression that in some environments, even here in some countries, it seems to me that it was okay that the WTO negotiations were going on and that there was no urgency in resuming them. I'm very disagreeable in such a posture. It is negative both for Norway and for the world that it was not possible to reach a new WTO agreement. Norway has one of the most open economies in the world. A very large part of what we produce here in the country is exported, and a very large part of what we use here in the country is imported from abroad. For Norway, there will be a clear advantage to clear running rules and mechanisms to prevent fractures to these rungs. Although an agreement will lead to major challenges for parts of Norway and Norwegian industries, especially for agriculture and agricultural activities, there is no doubt that a WTO agreement will also be a major advantage for Norway. Norway is linked to the EU, which is our most important market, through the EEA Agreement. There is a good clarification in many areas, but there are also exceptions, and one of these exceptions is fish. There we have experienced a very unstable situation for many years. When it comes to the United States, we have seen that it has our trade barriers. From being a large and growing market for Norwegian salmon, the United States was in reality linked as a market. A more clarified WTO legislation will strengthen the Norwegian export industry, and it will also make it easier for Norwegian authorities to consult with other countries that one has a clear code of dispute resolution in its back. It is also clear that a WTO agreement will be a great advantage to most developing countries. Today’s system, with major barriers to trade, effectively helps to shut many developing countries out of the world market. There is a need for trade to develop, and the developing countries are therefore the biggest losers in the context of the collapse of the negotiations. That is why it is bad news when the Foreign Minister suggests that it may take several years for the negotiations to be resumed. The last round in the WTO was called the Round of Developments because one would take special care for the needs of the developing countries. Even if one did not succeed in reaching a final agreement, there was great progress in the negotiations. One agreed to get more fair trade, among other things. by removing export subsidians and introducing benefits for the poorest countries. What is important now is that these negotiated parts of the agreement are not lost. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: will any resumption of the negotiations be based on what has already been concluded in the negotiations there? Would you like to try to develop these further? Or is it that one has to go back to the start? I also have a question about whether it is such that one must have full agreement at all points, or whether one can imagine a possibility where one can extract individual elements and then try to implement it, for example. in the case of export aid. Is there a possibility to remove the export support schemes, even if they do not have a complete, negotiated agreement? The same applies to the special advantages for the poorest countries. The most important thing now is at least to get processes going again, and perhaps such an approach could be involved and affect it. In the absence of negotiated agreements, there is now a process where there are many options, such as bilateral free trade agreements. These processes are proceeding too fully, and it is important that this does not help undermine WTO processes. We see that these agreements can actually be involved and contribute to the opposite, simply to new barriers to trade. It is also the case that in these negotiations that are currently taking place, some countries will not be able to access them. In a good part of the negotiations, there will also be very rough parties negotiating, so that one can get a weak party who will thus have to conclude bad agreements in order to have the full potential of markets for their products.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e903	I will first be allowed to thank the interpellant for addressing a very important issue, which he also highlighted very well in his article. I would like to say to the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs that I fully support the description of the importance of a WTO agreement. I agree with him that setting up a multilateral set of agreements is crucial and priority No. 1, there must be no doubt about that. But I still think we should dry – almost independently of what progress is being made in relation to the WTO – to be offensive in terms of free trade agreements. I feel so much that the Government is about to be so, but we must have the necessary political pressure. I will not dwell very much on this, but I do not always – and that is not particularly the case with this government – feel that there has been enough political support and enough support from the environments that must work actively with these processes for the free trade agreements – that is, the multilateral and WTO have been the top priority. The free trade agreements have been on the side, something secondary and something less important. I hope that the free trade agreements will be lifted, that sufficient capacity will be set aside – both in our relevant departments and in the EFTA Secretariat – to negotiate agreements as far as possible politically. We know that this varies almost from month to month; new openings come, and new doors close. Parallelity with the EU has been high. There has been almost a driving rule from the EFTA side from day one, and that was probably some of the basis for starting these free trade agreements. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy, in a unanimous vote on some agreements, has said that it is willing to go a little further. We've also seen that EFTA has actually done that. It is not necessarily a matter of where the EU has gone first, but one has been willing to break new terrain and look at new opportunities. Perhaps EFTA, as a slightly smaller player than the EU, can have different opportunities and see different openings than a heavy player that the EU can. We're going to exploit that potential where possible. We see it not least with regard to the asymmetrical agreement that was now approved here in Stortinget, with the SACU states. The Minister of Foreign Affairs described this very well. It gives greater recognition to developing countries than it does to EFTA countries. It has a positive element of development and can be a model for future agreements with that type of country. I will not use time in this post to describe how Norway should weigh the defensive and offensive interests. The party of progress has done so in other contexts. I just want to stress that, of course, we have not changed our perception in that way, and we believe that there is as much in the WTO as in a free trade agreement context. My main message is that we give sufficient and sufficient weight to the financial agreement negotiations, and that we run it forward, almost regardless of how the WTO works. One doesn't exclude the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e918	It's a shame that on Stortinget's last day this year we can't mark that we have a successful Doha agreement in port. It's a shame for Norway, as the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee also stressed in its statement – I can join it – and it's a sin for the world. It's sad for cotton beans in Africa, and it's sad for poor land workers in Brazil. We know that a prerequisite for achieving the UN's Millennium Goals to halve the number of poor by 2015 is that the poor part of the world also gets growth and export opportunities. For this reason, market access is also important for many poor countries, and the Doha Round should therefore be a round that placed great emphasis on development. For Norway it is sad, for, as a small country with 4.6 million. human beings, we will always be dependent on multilateral, strong and predictable legislation. In any case, Norway cannot count as a small country to be able to compete with the very largest blocks – we are also outside the EU – in terms of providing us with legislation that is as good for Norway as what we can get through a predictable WTO legislation. Of course, if you get a new round that will be successful, it is also beneficial and disadvantageous for Norway. But the sum of such a round will always have fewer disadvantages than the situation we now see, where Norway too must give priority to bilateral action. Norway has an open economy. We took a lot of loads already in the 1970s when it came to opening up our economy. We are not faced, as the EU is doing now, with major threats to textile exports, clothing and shoes. We opened our markets. This led to rather tough conversions in Norway in the 1970s, but now we have the joy of being able to import fairly, and we can also export aluminium, ferrosilisium, solar panels and the like to these important markets. This is a win-win situation both for middle-income countries, poor countries and for a rich country such as Norway. Once in the situation of a delay in a new process linked to the multilateral regulatory framework, I agree, of course, with the inter-pellant – perhaps not like a bomb – and the speakers who have spoken afterwards, that Norway must also take care of its national interests. We do that through the EFTA cooperation. In fact, EFTA is the ninth largest economy in the world if one combines GDP in these countries, so that one also forms a negotiating bloc that can be put into effect. I think it is important that we now continue to work to ensure that Norway also acts as a driver in order to safeguard the interests of the fishing industry, not least through the new free trade agreements. We've got South Korea in place, we've got SACU countries in place, and there are opportunities for a bilateral agreement with China, along with Iceland, and we also have vis-à-vis Japan opportunities. I've also heard good news about India. It might be interesting to hear whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs received any feedback on the possibility of an EFTA agreement or a bilateral free trade agreement between Norway and India during his visit there. Then we come to this with the bilateral investment protection agreements, BITS. This has been a very difficult case even in the EFTA context. Both Switzerland and Iceland are opposed to Norway because we are unable to clarify our point of view and our relationship with the Constitution on this point. This has led, for example, to: Our neighbouring Nordic countries have concluded several investment protection agreements. And now that we see this merger as it is between the oil and gas activities in Hydro and Statoil, and the Prime Minister's enthusiasm for this yesterday, that means that we must invest in many countries in the third world as well. This requires predictability of your investment, otherwise you can be expropriated, and you don't have the necessary security. What I could imagine is that the Foreign Minister is saying a little more normatively about the need for the type of investment protection agreements for Norwegian business when we now have to go out more to safeguard our interests, as other countries have done, and also to get more EFTA agreements in boxing, so that we can improve our cooperation with the other EFTA countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e933	All those concerned with multilateral solutions must work to ensure that world trade rules are in place – that is quite clear. It is, as many have noted, particularly important for a small country such as Norway, but it is also important for developing countries. But there must be rules that are really suitable to lift poor countries and poor people out of poverty. Norway has a government with a platform where one has undertaken to take into account both offensive Norwegian interests and the interests of developing countries. It is clear from the Soria Moria Declaration that in the WTO negotiations the Government is to promote Norwegian interests, while acting as a supporter for countries that promote the interests of the poor part of the world’s population. It is also clear that in WTO negotiations we should not take from poor countries governance and instruments that have been important to develop our own society into a welfare society. There were probably a lot of reasons for the suspension this summer. In part, there was probably a blackmail between the EU and the United States, especially on export subsidies, but it is also the case that developing countries are better organised, because they have different interests, and they are articulating clearer demands for political space for action. At a parliamentarian's meeting on the WTO which I attended in Geneva a few weeks ago, an Indian politician said that a negotiator did not remove the livelihood of the poorest. I agree with the Foreign Minister and several others here who have said that some of the most important things were achieved at the Hong Kong meeting was just an agreement, an agreement, to wind up export subsidies. It is important that this work continues, and that it be put to work through a WTO agreement. However, it is equally important that when, hopefully, the negotiations are gradually resumed, it must lead to a real development round, as the Doha Round was supposed to be. It is not that only the poor countries have access to the markets of the rich countries, but they are automatically lifted by poverty. This can only happen if we get rules that give greater benefits to the poor. An asymmetrical exchange ratio requires asymmetrical rules for the exchange to be smoothed. I think it is important to take lessons from Norwegian history. Norway's economic history tells us something about how to secure growth conditions for food by industry by protecting certain industries from excessive foreign competition the time they needed the most, and to ensure that resources, technology and competences remained in Norway to build the country. No developed country has evolved without such a shielding. It is important that our development policy and trade policy are linked and that technical assistance is provided for the development of the industry in order to increase the level of processing and processing capacity of the countries. However, it is also important to ensure political space for action and to provide them with assistance in tough negotiations, for example. in the current negotiations between the EU and ACP countries on the Economic Partnership Agreement. In this context, I would like to draw up the agreement that has also been mentioned by many, namely the agreement that EFTA had with the African SACU countries. It is an asymmetric agreement that provides countries with special protection mechanisms and flexibility, in particular for agricultural and industrial products, and that develops new industries and strengthens market access to EFTA countries. It gives countries the right to take certain trade measures in the event of problems of trade liberalisation. This is important both because countries can use this agreement for everything it is worth in negotiations with the EU and because the Government has interpreted WTO legislation to allow for asymmetric agreements in regional and bilateral free trade agreements. Several have mentioned the need for free trade agreements. I think it is important that the Storting also participate in debates about the premises for these free trade agreements, so that one can take care of Norwegian interests, and that it can lead to developments in those countries that need development.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e956	First of all, I would like to thank you for the thorough briefing of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I would then like to stress that for the Central Party, it is important that the negotiations be resumed and lead to better and more balanced trade rules for developing countries than those we have in the WTO today, in the existing legislation. The government statement by Soria Moria concluded that this government will help developing countries to benefit from the same instruments that we know from our own history — instruments that assured us the welfare state, industrialisation and helped to place Norway among industrial nations. I am very pleased to see that a Joint Foreign Affairs Committee and the Stortinget have stressed the importance of focusing on production, employment and own markets also for Norway's business activity in developing countries. It is a starting point that most countries have had before becoming large exporters of goods that kept the price on the international market – processed goods. The Minister of Foreign Affairs quoted the Nobel Prize winner, Mohammed Yunus, who saw globalisation as a hundred-field highway where the rickshaws in Bangladesh must lose if they do not have special conditions to secure their space. In Christian Aid, England, they use a similar picture during church coffee when they want to focus on world trade, both the WTO and the free trade agreements between the EU and the former colonies, the ACP countries. It sounds something like this: you're going to make new traffic rules. The aim is first of all to get as much transport as possible on private cars, and second, that the cars should drive for the first time and not constitute obstacles to each other and speed. I've let me tell you that when the church sound in England comes to the question of whether it's speed-shrinking to stop for traffic damage, and comes to the conclusion that it is, it's like rebelling against the question being asked. I can really understand that. I am pleased that this government supports developing countries in that they must have the opportunity to use policy instruments that have also benefited Norway. I would like to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to clarify how the Government works to secure such rights, with a focus on employment and production capacity, and will give the opportunity to stop traffic damage, both to provide help and to find their own way to a dignified life. As I mentioned at the outset, it is important that, if necessary, new negotiations contribute to a better and more balanced regulatory framework in favour of world distribution. However, pending this, it is important to use the existing legislation. The central party is pleased that the Government has a high focus on dispute resolution against the EU’s use of anti-dumping measures in the case of Norwegian farmed fish. This is a completely unjustified trade barrier that we have to challenge. The centre party is very pleased that a total increase chose to pay special attention to the anti-dumping legislation and that the Government was to give priority to these negotiations and Russia’s WTO membership in order to ensure predictable framework conditions for Norwegian exports of farmed fish. Finally, I am concerned about how Norway acts when we contribute to the ‘spagety ball’ of free trade agreements. The size ratified a free trade agreement with SACU in the autumn, countries of southern Africa. The Government referred to this agreement as an asymmetric agreement between developing countries and EFTA. I would argue that this is an agreement that has given these countries more than what they are likely to get in the WTO. It is essential that Norway and EFTA recognise that the WTO gives rise to such asymmetric agreements. Very well known, the EU has opposed and imposes tough and unreasonable demands on the ACP countries on the grounds that the WTO does not provide such opportunities. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see any other such regional agreements that have contributed to more considerate trade rules than we most often hear, and what the WTO seems to be coming to?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e977	There is reason to wonder about today's case plan when the Stortinget chose to put an interpellation debate like this on the last day before Christmas, where we know that the social pressure to make short speeches and have a short debate is very large. But I have to say, however, that when you see that it is possible to have such a reflected and important debate in this year's last big meeting before Christmas, I think it's the Stortinget worth it. I would also like to say that I am very pleased that more than what I have experienced in many years in this room seems to be a broad consensus that it is important that we get a WTO debate in place. I have often participated in WTO debates in this Chamber over the last few years, and there have been some unreasonable attacks and an attempt to cut the light of the past out there as definitely, if they have not made the negotiations more difficult for Norway, at least has been an unnecessary stress factor in difficult negotiations. In this way, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is in a good position. He knows that he has the Storting behind him – and not least the opposition in Stortinget behind him – in the wish that Norway will succeed in contributing as much as we can to establish a WTO agreement as quickly as we can. It is a debate that has been going on and is ongoing on the issue of the bilateral road to trade arrangements in relation to the multilateral road, the WTO Agreement. I am probably in the hands of those who, over the years, have wanted us to avoid going too far on the bilateral roads through EFTA pending and a desire to establish a well-functioning WTO agreement. To put it simply – it is much better that all cars in a traffic pattern have to deal with the same traffic rules than that two and two drivers have to agree on how to pass each other, how fast they are going to drive, etc. It will be much easier, not least for the weakest road users, to whom many have come. So while it is important – not least when others set the pace for bilateral agreements – to ensure that they are not neglected in this area, I would like to stress that the most important thing we can do is to contribute to the success of the WTO, even though bilateral agreements will always complement such a multilateral agreement. If it happens – and we can hope for it – that this spring and winter negotiations will take place again in the WTO, it must be our task to ensure – and I think that this debate may have contributed to such a tone – that there will also be a debate in Norway on the round of developments that the WTO Agreement must be, and that not all the lobby billions from the agricultural organisations will succeed in making this a domestic Norwegian agricultural policy debate again. The developing countries deserve to be given the attention to what a WTO agreement can mean for them. I'm not going to spend a lot of time getting rid of the agricultural policy side by this, except to say what I have expressed so many times, and as I believe, and that is that Norwegian agricultural policy is facing major changes in the WTO direction, regardless of whether it becomes a WTO agreement or not. It is based on the simple reasoning that we are getting richer, but the food market in Norway is not growing. This means that food producers must keep up with the development of income, and there must be fewer of them. But very many in Norwegian agriculture can do other things: produce experience values and environmental values, and it is much easier to adapt a policy to the WTO context. There's a way you have to go anyway. But agricultural policy needs to be changed. That's probably where some of the challenges lie, because it changes the power situation in Norwegian society and maybe not so much on agriculture itself. I'm busy, and we were in, MUL country and the customs exemption. I saw in a note in one of today's newspapers that there are not very large numbers on the trade from MUL country to Norway. Nor has it stagnated. It tells us that having zero tolls is not enough to put in place good trade solutions with the poorest countries. That is why it is important, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs was within, to pay attention to trade-related assistance. I actually think it might be an area where it might be desirable to think even more about how to put in place a commodity stream from MUL to Norway. These are experiences within, for example: organic farming by establishing so-called ‘whole-chain’ agreements, where state funds lubricate and bring goods flows into place in some areas. It's an idea that you could transfer to this area. I think the key is to put in place some commodity streams that count something, and then the trade could generate new trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e998	One of Norway’s future challenges is how we can manage to preserve the welfare community while meeting increased competition. This requires multi-dimensional effort. We need to ensure that we have a competitive industry through a responsible financial policy, labour supply and research and infrastructure investment. Our business must also have the opportunity to trade with the rest of the world through international agreements, and it must have the help of opening doors in emerging markets. We must do so on a basis that shows that globalisation still has popular support. I was in Hong Kong during the tough rounds of the Doha negotiations, and I was disappointed with the results, despite the constructive contributions of the Norwegian and Foreign Minister. It is our responsibility – together with our partners in the WTO – to achieve a successful outcome. This must be – and is – the first priority of the Government, and we are pleased about that. We need to lay a sustainable foundation for work, economic growth and well-being. If this is not a success, the cost, especially for those countries that are not as well off as ours, will be tragic. If we succeed, the possibilities will be enormous. We can't give up our work for a freer and a fairer trade. China’s integration into the world economy can be an example of the opportunities and challenges of globalisation. After it joined the WTO in 2001, it has grown enormously. Thanks to this development, millions of people have been lifted out of poverty, and it has also had a positive development for the world economy as a whole. The flow of cheap goods from China has contributed significantly to a significant growth in the world economy — and with low inflation — in recent years. Many people with low income have increased their real income. At the same time, there is no doubt that countries such as China have major challenges, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs has previously explained in the United Kingdom how environmental challenges as well as workers' rights and corporate social responsibility will be given increasing emphasis in our contacts with countries such as China. This emphasis must be followed up by business. That business takes social responsibility will be a key factor in the success of developing a fair, humane and sustainable working and business life in all parts of the world over time. It's about establishing a foundation for human dignity in the relationship between man and capital. There is a clear link between responsible corporate behaviour and the ability to create and unlock globalisation that benefits everyone. Working conditions on health, environment and safety shall not be used as a competitive advantage. Good standards must also not be used as a protectionist instrument, but as an instrument for creating a platform that provides the basis for globalisation that we can all benefit from. At the same time, of course, the debate on the location of such standards is continuing. I think, for example: It is better that a woman in a developing country has a job to do with lower standards than in Norway than she does not have a job. We know from Norway that the way to get good standards is long, but feasible. As important as corporate social responsibility and good standards are a well-developed safety network. I call for a debate on how others in other countries, too, will get the same safety net in terms of migration because of globalisation as we do in our own country. We must also be sure of how to meet competition from low-cost countries. We can never compete with low pay and working conditions, nor should we. We have to compete in the areas where we can – quality, experience, knowledge and innovation. This is why, among other things: allocated more funding for nutrient research. There's a stake in education. It is invested in a strong public sector. As we thus become more commercially competitive, new markets are being opened up, and we need to know how to exploit them. Our economic and trade relations are constantly evolving. EFTA is working massively through free trade agreements with China, India, Japan and Russia and with other developing countries. I see that the opposition is impatient in terms of BITS. It's been a long time, even when they were in position. So you have to almost also in such complicated matters give a newly joined government the minimum of time to solve such difficult issues. I also want to defend the SV and the Senter Party, who were accused from the pulpit of going new ways in trade policy. They also supported, as far as I remember, the Singapore Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1021	When the Nobel Prize winner Mohammad Yunus criticises Telenor for double morality, he has made a clear point, but he was too polite to point to the Norwegian state. There is a need for a role clarification between Norway as owner, trading partner and aid operator. In connection with the peace prize distribution, Mohammad Yunus was alert by criticising partner Telenor for taking profits of more than 367 million. kr from Grameen Phone last year. Yunus believed that this was money that, through reinvestments, could benefit the poorest locally. He also believes that Telenor is violating an intentional agreement to leave holdings to the poor women, who are users of Grameen Bank. The vision is to transform the company into a business based on social principles. Telenor is in the way of this vision today. The fact that Telenor has been an invaluable part of Grameen Phone’s microcredit success is little doubt, nor does Telenor play a significant role in the construction of the telecommunications sector in Bangladesh. However, when Norway operates both aid and business through Telenor, we inevitably face a credibility problem. Both Norad and Norfund have contributed funds to build infrastructure in telecommunications in Bangladesh, and Telenor has been responsible for the development itself. Grameen Bank had all the customers and the trust in a huge customer base that's just going to grow. For me, it seems that Norway has failed in its responsibility to provide assistance. It's not just business development in the south that we're going to drive, but we're going to support a nation-wide construction. In the Soria Moria Declaration, this government says: ‘The government will assume that the WTO AA should not take from poor countries governance and instruments that have been important to develop our own society into a welfare society.’ We know how to get this done. But where are the signs of this in aid policy, in the telecommunications sector in Bangladesh or in Thailand or in other countries where Telenor operates? Through the GATS agreement in the WTO, Norway requested the Bondevik Government to liberalise telecommunications services, inter alia: enabling Telenor to hold larger holdings. The red-green government drew this call for liberalisation for reasons of principle. That was right, and it was great. Last week we were told that the WTO negotiations on domestic regulations in the GATS had restarted. "Now the WTO is going to harass the politicians" was said in a chronicle of Dag Endal from FORUT in Dagbladet. At a seminar in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I understand that there is a great deal of ambiguity and disagreement about what the WTO is going to regulate in this area. Norway has withdrawn the liberalisation requirement for Bangladesh, but similar requirements have been maintained in several other countries, such as Bangladesh. Thailand and Malaysia. Telecommunications is still regarded as an offensive Norwegian interest. At the same time, Norad is still heavy in this sector. At the same time, I wonder how it is going to go in the energy sector when Norway is now going to invest heavily in aid here. Should we help with rules on the transfer of competences, strict concession rules and repatriation, or get a new Telenor case where what we're learning is the truth of raw capitalism. Should the oil in Africa and Latin America contribute to regional development, or should we take advantage of the sea? I noticed the Nobel Prize winner's talk. I want to quote two passages from there, which I think we also have the good of hearing here at home: «Capitalism focuses on the free market. It is claimed that the freer market is, the better capitalism will answer the questions about what, how and for whom. It is also claimed that the individual's search for personal gain will provide an optimal collective result.I am committed to strengthening the freedom of the market. But at the same time, I am very dissatisfied with the conceptual constraints imposed on market players. This emerges from the idea that traders are one-dimensional people, having only one purpose of their business, namely profit maximisation. Such an interpretation of capitalism isolates the entrepreneurs from the political, emotional, social, spiritual and environmental dimensions of life. This may have been introduced as a rational simplification, but it has removed what is the very essence of human life." These are some important words that we should have with us and that we should listen to, because it was precisely this attitude that helped to build Norway as a welfare society. By copying the Norwegian right of return and applying it to the telecommunications sector, the vision of local ownership by the Peace Prize winner can be fulfilled. That is what should be a Norwegian line when, in the future, we are going to transfer our competence through Norwegian partially state-owned companies and Norwegian aid. Finally, the Government's coherence selection is being reduced today. I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Development will help to ensure that the WTO negotiations in the GATS do not hinder the nation-building and democracy-building that the Government has visions of supporting through assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1059	I would like to thank all the participants for their good contribution to a debate that I think was important and good, and which we will have to come back to at regular intervals. I record that there is a broad consensus that priority No. 1 is to set up a WTO agreement. In my introduction initially I tried to illustrate some of the negative effects, not least for small countries like ours, one could get from a weakened WTO. Whether we focus on the rules of the WTO and the negotiations there or on free trade agreements, there are some balances that need to be achieved. There is, on the one hand, the balance between our own offensive and defensive interests. It will still be a theme that we will undoubtedly have the opportunity to come back to several times. But I feel quite convinced that it is a rather dynamic theme, which will change over time, because Norwegian business and also service industries are in a period when they are increasingly caught up in internationalisation and globalisation, so that our own needs are changing. We have to catch up to that. The second balance is, of course, between our Norwegian interests and the interests of our developing countries. Sometimes these will conflict. That's what we have to solve. I think we have had a fruitful cross-political debate on how we want to deal with this. There are several of us who are committed to stimulating trade promotion for developing countries, among others. further removal of customs barriers. But there has also been talk of strengthening the capacity of developing countries to build their local and regional markets on the road to globalisation. Keywords here are probably both the quality of what they deliver, and the construction of skills. In this area, I am responding to increased bets and also several creativitys to move forward. Since this is the last meeting before Christmas, and since it is my last post this year, I will take the opportunity to wish the President and the Minister for Foreign Affairs a Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1074	The President would like to reflect the good wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1077	If it had now been parliamentaryly correct to sing a Christmas song, I might be tempted to do so, but I think it's going a little over the line. I would like to thank the interpellant for having raised a debate that has given us a very good discussion. Should we start the WTO negotiations again in the new year, I feel, as was said here, that we have good support in what can then come from tough and demanding negotiations. I'll try to answer quite briefly some of the questions. To the representative Aksen: Can you keep what has been achieved, and can you do something just in these areas for the poor? Commissioner Mandelson brought this up earlier this year. It was interesting to note that the poorest countries opposed this. They want the whole thing. What happens if this is clearly going to collapse, so that they have to wait several years, I keep open. Then it may be that you are trying to grab a grip to secure what has been achieved. I think it would be a tragedy if we were now to be reintroduced to export subsidies, when we saw 2013 as a possible goal to wind them up. Then I think there might be some nuances between the representative Höglund and the government in terms of free trade agreements and the driving role there, but not many. We're trying to combine this in the best possible way, looking for the possibilities that are coming. As Mr Brende said, EFTA is the ninth largest player globally, and that is our instrument. Then it is the way the House is aware that we have a distribution here, so that it is the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade who has the EFTA agreements and the Minister of Foreign Affairs who has the WTO. Now the representative Burnde is well used to the BITS issue. When he encourages the Government to move forward here, I can confirm that we are doing what we can for it. We are based on a good tradition of being thorough in this matter. It's not easy, because it's dealing with some demanding questions. But as I said, I have the ambition to achieve this in the new year. We have established a working group in India to evaluate the possibilities of a trade agreement. When I was over there, there was an agreement to continue working on it. I hope we do that in the New Year. I am optimistic about this. With regard to national security clauses, within which the representative Samuelsen was involved, I would say that the WTO agreement is full of it. It's full of flexibility. We talked about this already in the Doha Round for the developing countries. So you have to assume less obligations, have longer time and all exceptions. Then I am at the point of what the representative Lundtigen was concerned about, namely that one must have regulation of capitalism. Some might say that the WTO is an attempt at comprehensive regulation by establishing driving rules, creating a framework. In the absence of a WTO agreement, at least we have a form of juvenile law that is not very attractive. To the representative of Sponheim, I would just like to stress that this is not a particular increase from the MUL countries. It's an expression that it goes into zero on customs and quotas, not in itself giving trade. The suggestion he had about stimulating such trade is of those we can take with us and study more closely. Merry Christmas!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1103	Thank you, too! The debate on substance is closed. 5 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1119	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1645]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1135	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1646]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1151	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1646]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1168	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1646]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1184	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1193	Document No The 8th proposal by Mr Skei Grande, Mr Gjerde, Mr Dørum and Mr Ludvigsen on a new financing model for cultural buildings in Norway is an important input into the cultural debate. The Government of Stoltenberg also states in the Soria Moria Declaration that it will ‘improve legislation and support schemes for the improvement and construction of local cultural buildings’. Another point underlined in the Soria Moria Declaration, which is also important in this context, is the formulation that cultural policy will help to create better meeting places for majority and minority cultures. This is an important aspect of the Government's policy of creating good cultural arenas throughout the country and also requires transparent and adapted funding mechanisms for local and regional cultural buildings. Proposals by the proposers call for a significant increase in the allocation of national, regional and local cultural buildings. It is not difficult to agree, while stressing the need to promote these, as other major cultural appropriations, in the ordinary annual government budgets. However, it must be remembered that the government of Bondevik II in the 2006 state budget had a historically low proposal on the national cultural building chapter, only 4.3 million. kr. In this respect, I have to say that it has been a tough task to get this post so close from this level that we can now begin to take some of the many promises that await in this area. It's very important that we get a real commitment to cultural buildings and meeting places. Good and adapted arenas are extremely important for the flourishing cultural life we all want, and we need good cultural buildings both in cities and in districts. Grants for the construction of non-governmental cultural arenas are currently granted over several items. This applies inter alia to the Ministry of Culture and the Church budget, Chapter. 320 item 73, Norwegian cultural building, cap. 320 Item 50, Norwegian Cultural Fund and the Tipping Funds, where the surplus is granted on the one hand through the decentralised cultural building system and on the other through the grant scheme for regional meeting places and dissemination venues for culture, on the other. In the context of the treatment of the 2006 State Budget, the majority of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture of the United Kingdom, members of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party stated that one looks forward to the government's review of the financial arrangements for local and regional cultural buildings. We are pleased that this work is now under way, and that the Government in the 2007 budget proposal indicates that it will carry out a thorough review and treatment of the administrative reform arrangements. Among other things, it is pointed out by the Government that it may be natural for the new regions to be given total responsibility for prioritising and allocating funds to regional cultural buildings. It is also positive that the Government argues that it may be useful to assess whether the State grant schemes for cultural buildings can be partly coordinated with the grant schemes for sports facilities. It also meets the proposal to assess whether multi-use and flexibility should be given priority in the state leadership of cultural buildings and arenas. It is good to open the way for these elements to be assessed in the further work. A coherent family and culture committee underlines the importance of paying particular attention to the local cultural houses such as community houses, assembly houses, warehouses, clubhouses and similar buildings, which are mainly owned by non-governmental organisations. There will be a need to ensure that such construction is properly conditioned and can be maintained to the benefit of normal users and non-governmental organisations. It is positive that the Government has called for the development of an overall funding model which takes a number of considerations into account with regard to the grant schemes for cultural buildings and meeting places. The Committee is pleased that this work is well under way and considers that the Government will appropriately return to the Stortingen case. The majority of the Committee would therefore urge the Stortning to adopt that Document No. 8:72 on a new financing scheme for cultural buildings is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1214	The Left promoted this proposal following the examination of the party's roll-out election programme. Many of our local culturally active members had seen with great frustration the way cultural buildings are treated in relation to some other buildings. Today, we have a pretty good funding system for sports facilities, while there is great frustration in keeping cultural buildings on the same footing. And here it's not just about cultural buildings with shiny facades that some parties think it's important to fight down. It's also about the small community houses, the small local gathering places, which actually give the stage to people – the scene to those who want to try out as an actor for the first time, the scene to those who want to try out as a musician for the first time, the scene to the first human show or the first dictation reading, and which is an important social gathering place in any place. Yes, in fact, a lot of people have entered this pulpit who might have their debut on just such a scene, a scene that is not shiny, but that has a back wall that is handpainted by an old painter who might have managed to create a motif of a forest or something like that. These have often been set aside by public and public funding systems. These can see large fine sports buildings growing up next to them while the community of many organizations break their backs to keep their houses in claim. I might have expected you to have had a little bit more openness to look at different models of what you can do to keep these houses in claim. And it's not just about the public buildings. There's just as much talk about those who are being held in claim by local youth teams, liberal youth teams, and all the free organizational movements that exist beyond our country. That is why I had also hoped that perhaps you could agree to at least start a job to look at different models of how this could be done – to get to work like this. For the left, there are three points that have been very important. The first is to look at what action we can take to equalize the cultural arena and the sports arena more, and perhaps to facilitate more multi-use and facilitate more that culture is also a driving force in this part. The last thing that we see getting little support for at the municipality is about the Left's view of what municipal property is. Municipal property is not owned by municipal bureaucrats, it is something that all citizens of a municipality own. We've looked at many models in many countries. The Netherlands has a model where any house that is not used can be used by others. We believe that it must at least be said that any municipal house that is not used must be able to be used by citizens for cultural purposes. What we think was an exciting pressure against a lot of municipalities that think it's most financially right to leave houses unused – when you see that many cultural institutions don't have the opportunity to use them. We'll probably be promoting that proposal in some other contexts as well. What I want to do in the end is to promote the two proposals, which are at least some of the parties behind it, to pay tax deductions and explore the new funding model. So I hope that this might be a good thing between all the parties -- to look at the possibilities of doing some action to bring culture and sport together, so that the buildings might be used for the common good, and that you don't necessarily run across the borders, where one should have glossy paper, while the other should still have the hand-painted back wall.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1229	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1232	It is always a pleasure for a Minister of Culture to hear an involvement in the Storting for what is going on in local cultural activity and not least to provide good construction for this local cultural activity. In the case of the party that was just represented on the pulpit, this involvement may be a little late, because in the last government period, the budget line for regional cultural buildings was cut year by year and finally reduced to the very minimum. The appropriations for national cultural buildings, amounting to around 100 million. kr over many years, was in the last state budget submitted by the previous government below 5 million. kr. There's not much help with good Document No. Eight proposals and good words if you don't follow up with money. We have now increased the pot of national cultural buildings to at least 50 million. NOK, but we have not yet been able to take back all that was cut in the previous period. In the case of regional cultural buildings, something new has happened, as the rapporteur also said, since this Document No. The 8 proposal was examined in the Committee, and it is that the Government has presented an administrative reform involving giving this responsibility to the regions. I have to say as Minister of Culture that it is great to be able to sit and see all the good cultural projects around Norway and distribute money to them. But in this particular area, I think that people know best where the shoe prints when they're in their own community -- they can themselves assess which cultural buildings are most needed; they can themselves assess which rates are to be given to the different projects, what opportunities exist for private funding, what opportunities exist for other types of fissile layers. I miss a little bit from the representative from the Left what kind of support we might get for such a decentralisation idea. We have a lot of central cultural arrangements – it is important to have, because there are many narrow singers – but precisely in this area, where you actually need to assess which cultural buildings are to be built in the local environment, it has to be an excellent task for the regions themselves to manage. Then they can also have the freedom to decide how the arrangements are to be set up. That is what we are inviting in the reform of the administration, and we hope that we will support it when it is being dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1243	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1246	What I'm going to say now, rather fit in a line. I think it might be time for the Council of States to show some respect for the proposals that are being promoted and deal with them. A good deal of proposals are being promoted here that the Council of State chooses not to deal with in its replies, but to use suggestions from other governments to beat other parties. You might want to do that with the government's party, too. I had expected the Council of State to have a position where he might have tried to get into a dialogue to get into the goal of some important reforms. This government has presented a proposal for regional reform. And we're going to see what's left of it. There have been so many different signals from this government that I had not hit myself so hard on the chest. The second is that the Council of State has clearly established a decentralisation reform in its State budget through the decentralisation of a good number of aid measures that are not the basis of the regional reform that exists, which will not be of any kind because of the fact that there are too small units. But it is clear that the Council of State dreams of larger units. But in the county structure that we have today, we have actually delegated a lot of power in terms of sports construction. There are a lot of local priorities for sports buildings located in the county, but you are not willing to discuss the same for cultural buildings. If you really have a state grant scheme, you have a high degree of local priority and a high level of local power in the state reform as well. I would have liked the Council of State to perhaps be able to rise a little above its old role as an opposition politician and be the Council of State discussing issues presented in the Stortinge on the basis of program treatments in other parties. It then chooses not to do so, but elaborates its old argument. I'm sorry, I think I'm stupid of the Council of State to do that. The way to respond to such suggestions, I don't think it's right. I think we should be able to engage in better dialogue on such proposals in the future. We're probably going to promote them in other contexts and we're also going to look at what the Workers' Party is doing in relation to what they're saying they're going to do in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1259	The President regrets if the representative, with his suggestion of having a speaking time, meant a reply. In that case, the President is very generous today and gives access to lines – only in this round – of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1262	I shall not at all take from the representative Skei Grande the joy of her party being out of the coalition government in which it was. However, there must be a law in a debate that proposes – and I quote from the proposal – a significant increase in government appropriations for the financing of national, regional and local cultural buildings, pointing out that in the state budget presented by the representative of Skei Grande's own party one year ago, there was a dramatic reduction in government appropriations for the financing of national, regional and local cultural buildings. I understand that it can be experienced as unusually unpleasant, but it must be allowed to point it out when there comes a completely opposite proposal one year later. So there is a proposal that reads: ‘The Government is asking for proposals for a new funding model for local and regional cultural buildings, with a view to promoting a case to this end.’ That case is advanced. It is called the administrative reform, or the regional reform. It is possible to discuss the size of these regions, but regardless of their size, the Government says that local and regional cultural buildings should take care of the regions. It shall not be a State Council sitting in Oslo and deciding whether it is to receive money from the cultural building or the cultural building or the cultural building. It is up to us to decide for ourselves in the regions. That I thought had to be a fantastic invitation to cooperate with the Left Party, because I thought they were for greater local self-government and the kind of reforms that move power down to where people are. I still still miss the answer to what the Government has already given in relation to the Storting at exactly this point, namely that we want these funds to be distributed locally. It can then be with respect to report that it does not feel very uncomfortable to ask for an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1276	The Council of State refers to this post being cut in the last period of government, but he chooses, of course, to mention only half the truth. The thing was that after the change in the key, there was money in this area. When Valgerd Svarstad Haugland chose to cut this post through two or three rounds, there was still a lot more money for the purpose than it had ever been before. This is a discussion we've had a lot of times and come back to. So I'm going to add to the picture that the state council here gives. What can be serious is that with the regime that it is now working on in relation to the games, the number of dollars will go down again. I do not ignore that, too, must have a bearing on our willingness to refill – what to say – the state budget principle. Because it is clear that we cannot sit with our hands in prison and see that the money disappears. But we'll have the opportunity to come back to that. With regard to the issue of the issue of the development of cultural houses and the administrative reform, I think it is quite healthy for the Council of State to demand that we have some answers to what we think about it. Here the government has delivered something that you must at best call a draft, which the jam is quite open at all ends. Whether you're going to go for one or the other model, it's certainly not that easy to know about. It's also part of this draft that shows that the county municipality is a conceivable size, that is, beyond the county council of today. Then I have to return the question: what does the Council of State think about it? The municipality will, for example: be large enough to address issues relating to regional cultural buildings? Also within this group of barley, there are relatively large counts we're talking about. And even in today's system, the county councils are making significant priorities and taking the lead in what constructions are getting funds. I don't want to argue in any way that the model we came up with last time is necessarily the perfect one. There was a big debate about that model also the government parties among themselves, and it didn't matter that you really disagreed about it very much, but it was a rather difficult thing. It's not so easy to find a good key that makes everyone make up in this matter, because we're talking about a significant width in the type of project, many different types of houses, and there's huge counting we're talking about. The fact is that I think that we all – and that is where I join Skei Grande – must have a critical look at the system that is, be open to looking for new and better arrangements, and we also warn that this is an area that we will come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1288	Just to answer the specific question from the representative Thommess: Yes, we believe that this should be delegated to the states or regions also if the size is about as today, or if there are smaller regions than anyone has imagined. This is a responsibility that the states, or the regions, can take. They already have some of these resources, and they should have the full package of the regional and local cultural resources from the ticking funds. And of course, it's true, as the representative says, that there was an increase in the proportion from the funds to local cultural buildings, but it was specifically said by the majority of the population at that time, and we've had this many times, that it meant that the government appropriations should be maintained for the same purpose. In terms of government appropriations, with the dramatic cut in the 2006 budget – where you cut from about 100 million. kr to approx. Five million. $95 million. kr – then there was government cultural funds without a penny from the tipping funds, so there was another entry again. As I was in a previous post: it's great that you've gotten out of a coalition and then you mean to add to what you subtracted, but it would have been an advantage to add when you actually put power. That's what we're doing. I will not demand an answer to the administrative reform questions here and now, but just stress that we have actually responded to the task, proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox We're making some changes, as we announced in the budget, we're setting a limit of 1/3 on funding in the local projects, but the major system changes are not going to take place now, as we're facing a governance reform that will mean that these funds will be distributed locally. However, I believe that at the end of the day we agree on the objective, that we should facilitate good construction and cultural construction activities in the local communities, but that we should also see what local communities can decide about. Then it might be quite possible to wish the Committee a Merry Christmas and thank you for your cooperation this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1299	Now I don't think the representative Skei Grande had to get out of any government constellation to thrive in relation to working on cultural policy. It's an area that we've had a good relationship around, and we still have. What's serious about what the government council here says is that he's linking a change in this scheme to the issue of administrative reform. It means that the whole thing is being sent out into nothing and into eternity, because the governance reform is going to be a long and sad story with a lot of fatter, and it makes this case kind of boil down to the administration reform. It's awfully sad. I had hoped, and I am quite sure that the proposers too had hoped, that it would be possible to look at the schemes around regional cultural buildings independently of the administrative reform, so that we could get new and better and more accurate arrangements before, therefore, once again very, very long is going to think something new about the levels of government in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1304	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1646]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1321	This is just going to be a short comment. The Committee takes note of the changes in the budget, but from the Right and the Progressive Party we have seen a need, in particular, to highlight the challenges that exist with regard to the government administration of child protection. We note that there are very significant exceedances, and that it is a large organization, which will be quite demanding to have turned around. We are pleased with the efforts made by the Government to establish an external evaluation of the activities of child protection, and we are going to follow the matter further in the future. In this way, we await the government's further work on it. Otherwise, we have no comments on the budgetary changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1332	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1647]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1348	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1648]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1364	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1649]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1380	We adopt many directives in this Chamber without any particular debate, often because these EEA Directives are of a technical nature. Then we have some EEA directives that are controversial. The Services Directive and the Chemicals Directive are examples of this. This Directive belongs to a third category, a directive which is the necessary means of achieving important objectives. This time it's about fighting terrorism. The fight against terrorism must take place in cooperation between countries and at an international level. And this directive is a matter of less attention than Norwegian Special Forces for Afghanistan, which is to make money laundering more difficult to finance terrorism. In particular, it is after 11 September that the search has been focused on this in order to limit access to capital for terrorists. This Directive is an example of effective international cooperation. I am pleased that we have a political system that is effectively able to take concrete action when we are dealing with problems that cross national borders, this time by making money laundering more difficult. Without the EU and the EEA, it would be much more difficult to do something that could quickly become part of the advice of most European countries. Once this Directive has been implemented, there are not only different banks, real estate agents, etc. which is subject to the Directive on money laundering. The Directive is now extended to life-assurance brokers and service providers in order to assist the establishment or management of companies and so-called trusts. In addition, all traders of goods above EUR 15000 shall be included. In addition, the requirements for the identification of customers are strengthened. Finally, I can only say that I would assume that it must be pleased with the Progress Party that the Ministry of Finance believes it will have some financial consequences, but that they are still able to cover it under their budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1399	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1650]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1415	The high electricity prices of the harvest, according to the proposers, worry a number of households about the electricity bills this winter. The proposers refer to a number of proposals made by the Progress Party on improvements in the balance of power over the last few years, and propose to the proposers to halve the VAT on electricity and eliminate the electricity charge. According to the proposers, the proposals address the need for short-term measures to address short-term electricity prices in households. Only the Progress Party endorses the proposal, but there are different reasons from the other parties to oppose the proposal. On the part of the government parties, there is a clear recognition that power shortages provide very high electricity prices, and that getting more predictable prices requires both long-term and short-term measures. In the long term, it is quite clear that liberalisation of the Energy Act provided low prices and low predictability, with associated small investments in new power generation. One of the most important measures that the new government has now put in place to ensure a greater degree of renewable energy production is the establishment of the feed-in system, which is an effective and targeted tool to assist and stimulate the increased deployment of renewable energy. It's joyous, and there are great ambitions associated with that scheme. With regard to the short-term situation we're in, Statnet's forecasts are worrying. It has improved beyond the fall, but yet the magazine filling is only slightly better than what was expected for magazine filling at the corresponding time of the year, in the spring of 2003, when there were very high prices. There are several reasons for today’s magazine situation, including: the events in Sweden, which led to the long-term disconnection of large parts of nuclear power capacity, the outcome of one of the cables between Norway and Denmark and today’s market-based power supply policy, which led to a sharp decline earlier this year as a result of high European electricity prices. The proposalers' document states: «The situation for the coming winter is feared to pass «the winter of crisis» 2002-2003.» Government parties indicate that the prices of the Nordic electricity exchange have fallen recently. Suffering from a fall in power prices in Norway due to high temperatures and high rainfall in recent years, government parties are very serious about security of supply. High electricity prices in Norway must be taken into account over the winter and, in the worst case, consumption must be regulated down through agreements Statenett has concluded with individual companies in the power-intensive industry in order to ensure security of supply. This looks at the government parties as a very serious situation. The Government Parties agree with the Ministry of Finance's assessment that the reduction in taxes does not result in a corresponding decrease in the price of the consumer, but that producer prices could be pushed up and thus generate even greater revenues for power producers. Therefore, the Government considers that the reduction in the electricity charge and/or the halving of VAT on electricity will only reinforce the current imbalance between production and consumption in Norway, and therefore fears that even higher prices and even greater supply problems for consumers may result from such a change. The Government Parties consider that the proposal in the electrical power charging reduction document will not work according to the purpose of the proposers and therefore request that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1439	As the case-speaker said, this is a proposal that is meant to be a short-term measure. In addition to all the long-term measures proposed by the Progress Party, there will be a better balance between supply and demand for power. The background to this proposal is the high electricity prices that one saw in the fall, and also the prospects that one then saw, that winter could get even worse, and that prices would increase further. After it has rained for two months in a stretch, among others. in the West, – I don’t know if to say luckily – the power balance has improved somewhat. In any case, prices have gone down a little bit. We are making this proposal and we are still behind it. The proposal is to remove the electricity charge and halve the VAT on electricity in the four most difficult months, i.e. November, December, January and February, in order to make it easier for consumers, for electricity customers, to pay the electricity bill. The statistics show that there are those with the lowest income who use the largest part of their income for electricity. So this is essentially a handshake for those who have the least to walk with, those who have had the economy. Of course, we felt that the majority did not want to support this proposal from the Progress Party. We also note that the Council of State uses as an argument against the proposal that the electricity charge is a particularly important source of revenue for the state, and that is probably correct. But high electricity prices also lead to increased revenue both to the state and to the municipality of Norway, so if it were willing to do something about the electricity price by removing the electricity charge and halving the VAT, it would be possible to do so. The case spokesperson now pointed out that the proposal would not give the desired effect. We are convinced that it will give the desired effects. We also doubt that lower prices will significantly increase power consumption, but something will probably increase it. And if power consumption increases, it will initially result in higher imports from the rest of the world, without any significant impact on prices. Thus, there is every reason to believe that a reduction in fees will mainly benefit consumers. We don't think there is any reason to fear that producer prices will increase significantly if we reduce the fees. There are also some SSB researchers who have assessed this theme and come to the same conclusion. The only exception is if there is transmission problem in periods with very low power. So we don't have that situation right now. We don't have any transfer issues, and this means that a reduction in fees will benefit consumers. Finally, I will present the proposal from the Progress Party in this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1459	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter mentioned the proposal he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1462	Only a few brief considerations on the part of the Workers' Party. In a debate like this, you can get the impression that we're just quite happy that the situation is like that, that is, that the power prices go on the roof, and that we have no action to deal with it. But that's not right. We have more. Firstly, we are working on new power generation in the field of environmentally friendly use of gas, bioenergy and wind power. In addition, we believe in energy saving measures. We've seen in periods of high electricity prices in the past that people are actually willing to tighten a little bit to avoid the bill going straight to the weather. We saw it, for example. in 2002 and 2003, when it was clearly seen that the price is related to how people think about their power use. Thirdly, the Government is working on measures to meet those people who will have the greatest problems in a situation of high electricity prices – that we have targeted action against that group. But what I just want to say very briefly is that in the public debate we often get the impression that power prices may be the biggest challenge in the years that come when it comes to the personal economy of people. I don't think that's right. I think what's going to be the big challenge for most people in the years to come is that interest rates are slow, but surely going up. Then I hear that the Progress Party is very sorry that the majority will not support an action where a short-term gain related to the electricity price, which is a relatively expensive cost on the side of the government budget. I think it is very sad that the Progress Party will not be with us and, as all the other parties agree on, conduct an economic policy where interest rates will not go in the weather faster than they are doing now. We have very good indications of that. The central bank manager says it pretty much out on his own. Most economists agree with us. But it's very reasonable to be able to sit in debates and say that we want to do something about the power prices, all the time we know that interest rates will mean many, many thousand dollars more than any historicly high electricity price will mean for people's private economy. So I think if you weigh the two up against each other, I'm on safe ground when I don't think this is the right way to do it. I also believe that the measures we have outlined in the short and long term will be smarter when, in addition, we are pursuing an economically responsible policy where interest rates do not fly faster in the weather than we can see next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1477	Unfortunately, the treatment of this proposal by the Storting reflects the lack of willingness to give a handshake to those who suffer damage when the power price goes into the weather. Now, luckily, it doesn't seem to be the case this year – the weather gods have saved this government – but the issue is far from dead for that reason. The power balance in Norway will be difficult in the next few years. The attitude we have seen from the majority of the population shows that there is no willingness to help those who have problems with high electricity prices, through the tax system. It is quite remarkable when it is the State that owns most of the power generation, and it is the State that has the large income through the tax system directly from both consumers and from the power companies already owned by the State and the municipalities. In the debate, a claim was made that if one reduces the charges, it would only be matched by a corresponding increase in the electricity price. I still have the credit to see the calculation for it from those who claim it. I have no faith that a change in the tax on the electricity consumption of Norwegian households will lead to a corresponding increase in the electricity price on the Nordic market. Because that's what we're talking about. The Nordic electricity market is so much bigger than the consumption of Norwegian households. Come with the calculation, and I'll join in and accept it. But it's not there, so that argument is not valid. On the other hand, the SSB's figures show that the price elasticity of electricity is terribly low in the short term. And this is a short-term measure. We're talking about what consumers can do in a year. If consumers are to change their electricity consumption over the course of a year, it is not a matter of adding heat over the winter. This is about them either turning off the power, or letting it on. That's the elasticity they have. When one indicates that changes in power consumption saved us in 2002, it was precisely because industry shut down. I have read a lot of readers' letters from red-green staging representatives that this government will ensure that the industry has enough power to survive the winter. The representative Ola Borten Moe promised this spring and this summer that industry would not have to shut down to save electricity in society. Now we note that all attempts to do something about the level of fees have been rejected, despite the fact that Energy Minister Enoksen, when he was in opposition, believed that the first 10,000 kWt per year should be free of charge, and despite the fact that the representative Jan Bøhler in the newspaper this summer went out and said that there should be reduced VAT on electricity, because it is a necessity in line with food. When you have half the VAT on food, you should have half the VAT on electricity. And it's not useful to point out that there's a lot of action to be taken in the long term. Yes, I also think it is important to find many measures in the long term. The Progress Party has made a number of proposals for both gas power, hydropower, thorium power stations, etc. The problem with ‘in the long term’ is that you do not solve the payment problems that many will get a winter when power prices go into the weather. It is just and fair that the state then says off a bit of the big income they have from the power industry, to help those who are struggling with the bills.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1490	I would like to take the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen, who is one of the co-sponsors, seriously when he says that it is not in the short term that electricity prices are crucial for people's consumption. It's a matter of agreeing with him. In the long term, the electricity price level is crucial for people’s adaptability. If people think that high electricity prices are something that only comes this year, but not in the future, there won't be a dramatic impact on people's investment – in pellet stoves, heat pumps, etc. But this is not a proposal about what is happening in the short term, for this is the second year in a row that the Progress Party is promoting a proposal to reduce taxes on electricity. There is no reason to believe that Gjermund Hagesetter and Ketil Solvik-Olsen are not going to promote this proposal again every winter in the years to come. The whole point is as follows: If the Progress Party states that the flow should be significantly cheaper – not just last year, not just this year, but every year in the coming years – it will lead to higher electricity consumption, because it will lead to lower investment by households in investing in pellet or water-borne heat – transition to everything we think is necessary for the Norwegian population to become less dependent on electricity for heating. We are now committed to creating more energy-efficient houses. We're going to make sure people use less electricity and other forms of energy for heating the house. This is to be achieved through all the support schemes and other measures that we have set up and that are contained in energy systems, legislation, etc., etc. There's one thing that's important. It's that if the desire of the Progress Party is to reach those people who have the worst income, you shouldn't propose a general scheme that gives the most in tax laws to those who use the most power. If it were the families of children you wanted to help in the winter, yes, you increased child-responsiveness. If you wanted to support those who have the worst advice, you increased the grants of light and heat in the housing stock, as the current government parties were together with the Progress Party to do for a few years ago, as the last one was high electricity prices. So there's unstable power prices and big fluctuations in power prices that hit people the hardest. There, the representative Lundtägen was involved in what could contribute to more stable electricity prices. Otherwise, there's enough other ways to contribute to people being helped. It's not by cutting the electricity charges every winter, when you think that the electricity prices are going to go up – because they usually do that in winter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1501	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15 [[Fooding, see page 1650]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1517	Inner. S. No 98 deals with a proposal from Jan Tore Sanner, Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide, Gunnar Gundersen, Petter Løvik and Torbjørn Hansen for a comprehensive strategy with concrete measures to ensure the framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises. There may seem to be slight differences between the majority and the minority in this case. The majority, i.e. the government parties, indicate that the intention of the proposal is respected, among other things. in an Innovation Communication The Government is alleged to be bringing with it the spring 2008 session, while the minority, all opposition parties, support the proposal for a representative. In many ways, the proposal for an overall strategy for small businesses summarises a number of proposals which have been discussed in the Storting in the last year and which have been voted down by the government parties, often without special justification. As I see it, the distinctions in Norwegian policy in this area are essentially whether there is a need for a separate policy for small businesses, or whether all business and innovation policies are just as good – or bad, if one wants – regardless of whether one is big or small. I have experience from two different business ministers' posts, and to me it is quite obvious that there is a need for a separate strategy for the smallest enterprises. Not only is this by far most businesses, 97 pst. of all enterprises in Norway have fewer than 20 employees, and 85 pst. of all enterprises have fewer than five employees, but these enterprises also face very special challenges. The reality is as the NHO aptly describes it in a letter to the Financial Committee dated 6 December of this year: ‘A small or medium-sized enterprise is not a large enterprise in miniature. Small enterprises are characterised by the fact that the manager performs all management functions. The bigger the enterprise, the more people are involved in management. Small businesses don't have a management group and staff with specialists as we find in larger companies. This means that it is important to think ‘first measure’ when new laws and regulations are drawn up. What is good for the small businesses is generally also good for the large ones, but not always the opposite." A comprehensive strategy for the framework conditions of small enterprises has not been put in place since the signing on 26 October 1995, 11 years ago, a majority in the European Parliament received a proposal to set up a Commission to identify the framework conditions for small enterprises, and to propose changes to make it easier to create more jobs in these enterprises. At the time, Minister of Industry Jens Stoltenberg from this pulpit said that the proposal was just to kick open doors. He said something similar to what the majority said in today's position. Afterlife has shown that it was so far more than that. We got the Hervik committee, the Small Business Committee, which led to a number of policy changes in important areas. Simplification was initiated, leading to the project ‘Simplifying Norway’, which has continued by several governments. It has, among other things, has led us to have a combined simplification in food tasks, to mention something, and perhaps one could also include the removal of the sharing model as part of the results that came after the special attention given by the Small Business Committee, or the Hervik Committee, setting. So it's necessary to have a dedicated policy for the smallest enterprises, experience is over the last few years. For the Left, an active enterprise policy, not least towards these small enterprises, is one of the most important issues of policy, because it is the new knowledge-based business that forms the basis for future freedom and well-being, and because it is small enterprises and entrepreneurs that best ensure housing and active and exciting communities throughout the country, not a unilateral effort on individual industries. That is why we need an active enterprise policy that understands the dynamics of the globalised economy, which knows what is required of us of flexibility, innovation and entrepreneurial culture, not an industrial policy which is itself a limiting factor for development, which is vastly and small over the same comb, and which is unlimited in its belief in how well everything is going to be, only the state or the public agency is heavy enough within the various decision-making processes. Maybe not at least for a time when things are going so well for the country, the big businesses are doing well and expanding, cf. what the last day’s debate has been about — and that is good — and the public needs labour for public tasks, it is easy to confuse small businesses with the needs of the major players and the public. For this reason, it is important, in good times, to provide the basis for growth in the number of small enterprises and for small enterprises to grow. The development we have had in recent years, in which we have had a change of pace in 2004, and in which the number of new businesses has increased dramatically in the boom we have now, fortunately continues with this government. It is important to use these good times to provide the basis for this growth to continue even when times are getting worse and the struggle for labour continues even more. The minority in this position, i.e. the opposition, believes that it is now urgent to create an overall strategy for small businesses, and that this cannot wait for any innovation message from the Government, which comes early in the spring of 2008. We also have some experience of the fact that business policy-related big business messages do not exactly come to Stortingen when they are notified. The minority also indicates that a number of important actions towards the smallest enterprises will not be covered by the Government's notified innovation message. This applies, inter alia, to: areas of such importance as access to skilled labour and the need for a substantially simplified legislation for the smallest enterprises. In addition to the different elements that proposers consider to be part of an overall strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises, the minority also points to the need to raise the skills of enterprises, challenges related to the generational shift that many of these enterprises now face, and a strategy to compare Norwegian legislation with the corresponding laws and regulations of other countries. Finally, I would like to point out that all the hearing bodies – the NHO, HSH and the Business Federation – who participated in committee hearings on the proposal on 29 November strongly recommended the proposal for such an overall strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises. I would like to mention the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1548	The representative Lars Sponheim has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1551	Government Parties are committed to creating before an advantage. But it must also be that once one has achieved the creation, one must also make the best possible well-being and distribute the goods as fairly as possible. There is currently a reduction in the number of people in Norway, despite the warning of right-wing forces against labour law and other laws affecting business, thus protecting workers in this country. The Government Parties believe that fiscal policy, social dumping and the free play of market forces on the labour market are not the right medicine. On the contrary, analyses show that, if business start-ups fail, a high level of well-being and security leads to greater courage and willingness to invest. This government has given weight to bet on entrepreneurs. Strengthening innovation and facilitating start-ups and a fairer distribution, together with other tools with which we are filling our toolbox, will provide the basis for improvements for small and medium-sized enterprises. Because it is probably the case that everyone here in the Norwegian economy wants a better well-being and work for everyone. That is also the case in order to ensure that – and analysis shows that it is in the welfare societies that we get the greatest innovation, the greatest development and most establishments – there has to be a policy that the majority really supports here. It is important to take seriously the proposal put forward here. Government parties are concerned that they should do a real and thorough job in this area, through the innovation message that the Government has notified it of. It's just to build on what we're good at. So we're good in Norway to make business start-ups, to get social machinery going, while at the same time we're able to catch up with those who fall out, and those who need a safety net, it's themselves in terms of working time or bankruptcy or other things. That's why it's important to focus on this. We therefore recommend that the Stortinget attach the proposal to the protocol, so that we can use it as a basis for further work to ensure the framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1562	As can be seen in the setting, the Progress Party fully supports this proposal. In fact, I would like to commend the right-wing proposers for the initiative, and not least the case rapporteur for a good job and a full presentation of the case. Unfortunately, the response in letter form from the Council of State is not as good and positive. He points out that in a year and a half, an innovation message will be presented. And as far as I can read, this innovation message will not address all the issues that we specifically ask for in the vote – an overall strategy to ensure better framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises. I think that's alarming and thoughtful. Everyone remembers how better framework conditions for businesses became a theme, especially after the 2005 election campaign, where the famous toolbox was pulled out by the red-green – the one that was to be filled with lots of tools. But the toolbox gradually turned into a jewelry box. And now, approx. a year and a half after the election campaign, approximately A year and a half after the red-green took over the government offices, I can't see what the red-greens have done to improve the business environment. Where are all the suggestions? Where's all the groceries? On the contrary, we are actually voting against all the proposals on this. In the last year, the Business Committee and the Financial Committee have examined several proposals for representatives that address better framework conditions for SMEs, and most of them have actually had consultations, including where all stakeholder organisations, both employers’ organisations and employee organisations, have been very positive to the proposals. Nevertheless, the socialist parties have voted them down. The interesting thing is that every time we have a proposal for a representative for treatment to stimulate a better business life, and in this context we look at what it is like in other countries, we see that they have actually come much further than Norway. It has not been a very long time since I saw an overview of the countries of Scandinavia where we compared the trading activities of Norwegian, Swedish and Danish companies with, for example. China, and especially exports to China. There are Swedes and Danes twice as big business as the Nordics have. The same is true of business activities in Eastern European countries. The companies of other countries are more involved in investment in and trade with the new EU countries than the Norwegian company is, despite the fact that Norwegian companies should have the best chance of success abroad. So in this context, you might also want to look at whether you are satisfied with the job that Innovation Norway and Norwegian embassies are doing in their engagement abroad, which is supposed to help Norwegian companies abroad. Is that good enough? Do we have visible, good results in that it has helped? Are we there better than other countries? For example, some time ago, when I was going to look at the possibility of investing in an Eastern European country, I experienced that there was very little information available from the Norwegian authorities. When I then clicked on the website of another country's embassy in the same country, I could get extensive analysis, risk assessment and a lot of relevant information for companies that were assessing how to invest in this country. Only a simple service such as that should have been offered to a rich oil nation by Norway to small and medium-sized enterprises. I would also like to repeat a matter that I have previously requested in this room, where I still cannot see that something has come from the Government. There is then a case that has much to say for almost 200,000 entrepreneurs in Norway who have individual companies. The differences in treatment we see are between those who are self-employed and those who are self-employed in individual enterprises, compared to those who are in employment. I am talking about the pay guarantee scheme, tax-free continuing training, sickness benefits, unemployment benefits, collective pension schemes, etc. In this context, a number of stakeholder organisations have taken a closer look at this. These include: one survey showing that self-employed persons in individual enterprises are penalised by up to DKK 40000 in extra costs per. years, compared to persons in employment. If one compares the economic conditions of an employee with an annual net income of NOK 380 000 with the economic conditions of a person with an individual enterprise, the latter must earn more than DKK 80000 to remain at the same tax amount. In other words, the founder of an individual enterprise receives less social benefits from the state than the one employed in a large enterprise does. These are examples of one of the things that should be considered in the context of a big message ‘on a comprehensive strategy with concrete measures to ensure the framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises’. Unfortunately, we have seen little changes on the part of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1581	As one of the proposers in the case of Small Business Norway, which is now to be debated, it is a test that there may be a small risk that a drawing the debate out a bit a day like today. These are the local owners, the local entrepreneurs and the local welfare cabinets and jobsets we're talking about. Without taking these into account and without cultivating them, many societies will become obsolete. The theme ‘Small Businesses’ is therefore needed to focus on. Small business Norway, in my opinion, is at the heart of our well-being. Small businesses account for a large part of the value creation, adaptability and flexibility of Norwegian society. I don't see the timing for a new innovation message by the end of 2008. I really hope someone who will meet the needs of small businesses. When it is discussed, among others: in this room – ranging from framework conditions to management salaries, the debate tends to focus on issues quite different from those that the employees of the usual small enterprise feel about them. Therefore, small businesses should be mapped through their own aggravation message – independent of an innovation message. The truth is that if Norway is to reach its many ambitions to become a knowledge-driven nation — by ‘making use of the whole country’ and by gaining lifelong learning — small businesses must be reached with the measures taken. Changes in Norway are stronger than most people are able to deal with. 50000 companies are established each year and approximately the same number of companies disappear each year. The average lifetime of many of these is short. Among the established enterprises, the replacements – growth and fall in Business Norway – have their own dynamics. The product replacement in the market is huge – and of course forms the framework for the whole system. The company that is unable to follow disappears, and the market is taken over by those who create something new and better. This dynamics are some of the nerves of the prosperity and growth of our society. ‘All’ Norwegian small communities have their ‘Union’ from time to time in many ways, and the local environment must have a dynamic to tackle it. If so, the transition will not be the end of anything good, but rather the beginning of something better. It is very rare that this dynamics generate the major headlines nationally. It always puts individual people and – in some cases – individual small communities to the test, but adaptation is taking place. When general framework conditions, wealth taxes, reporting obligations and obligations — whatever it is now — are discussed as individual matters, the picture is often dominated by some marked extremes. This is often remote from the reality of many small businesses, but they have to live by the decisions taken. The size should therefore seize the opportunity and pay so much attention to all of this that it asks for a separate growth message on Small Business Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1600	I would like to take this opportunity to commend the rapporteurs for promoting this proposal. Working to facilitate better for small businesses is good. I would also like to commend the rapporteur for the job he has done. When we say that we're going to get back to the small businesses' unions in the context of the innovation message, I think it's a good way to take a debate on this in advance, so that it becomes clear to us what input the opposition has. In this way, we can process the recordings and choose which of them we should take into account, and which we should not take into account – because we think the ideas are bad. We agree that it makes sense to adopt a stable and long-term economic policy. We do our part of the job to contribute to it. Several of the other suggestions I think it's worth commenting a little bit. I don't think there's any doubt that we'll continue to have a property tax. We've been very clear on that. At the same time, in the changes relating to the taxes on wealth, which have been carried out in the two budgets that we have presented, we have been very clear about ensuring that those who own the most and who have the largest assets will contribute more, and those with less wealth will contribute less. As regards the inheritance tax, as mentioned in the proposal, we have – like the rest of the Stortinget – helped to facilitate the transition between generations, by making changes that allow people to defer the payment of the inheritance tax and to spread it over several years. We do a decent job in modernising the public sector. This is what we saw last night, when, in the context of MinSide, new measures were presented which concerned the possibilities of individuals. We do a job on a continuous basis when it comes to reporting to the tax department. All business organisations have said that the tax rate is an example of how to organise to simplify the tasks to be carried out. As the first government, we keep the promises regarding the transport sector – both the promises we made before the elections and the promises we made after the elections. We're doing a job prioritizing to getting more goods onto the railway, among other things. by removing the electricity charge for the railway. In addition, we provide more labour, including: through a large-scale investment in NAV. We have more money for labour market measures and for retraining than the former governments have had. We have also invested heavily in the development of kindergartens, which will ensure that we have more people available in the labour market. In addition, by ensuring that all foreign workers coming to Norway receive Norwegian pay and working conditions, we have contributed to Norway being one of the countries in Europe which has received the most migrant workers since EU enlargement. For me, it is completely incomprehensible that the Left and Right feel that offering poorer pay conditions in Norwegian employment should help more people from the new EU countries choose to come to Norway. The Minister of Labour has been out there and has said that he is considering other measures to provide skilled labour from outside the EEA territory. We also do a job in relation to the cooperative law. The previous government put the draft cooperative law in a drawer. Now we're going to raise it. We say in the Soria Moria statement that it will not be long. Cooperatives are a popular and good way to facilitate people to run small and medium-sized enterprises, where all workers are partners, including SMEs. The right has been concerned about earlier. The job we have done to put in place a differentiated employer's fee has been important for small businesses around the country. These are some of the answers we have to the challenges that come from the opposition. We appreciate that the opposition is promoting this kind of proposal, because they are important input into the job done by the Government, in the run-up to the innovation message.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1632	Yesterday was marked by the news of merger between the largest company listed on Oslo Stock Exchange and the second largest oil and gas company. There will be 31,000 employees working in the newly merged company. 31000 corresponds to something in excess of 1 pst. by the total Norwegian labour force. Now, of course, the importance of these two companies for Norwegian jobs is significantly greater than what this share alone tells. Nevertheless, the total employment only in enterprises with less than five employees — so-called micro-enterprises — is more than ten times larger than it will be in the newly merged oil and gas company. And the total number of persons employed in small enterprises with fewer than 20 employees is over 30 times larger. Small businesses also have other characteristics in addition to the importance for employment and value creation throughout the country, for which the red-green parties should have great sympathy. For example, in a study one year ago, it appeared. that the average manager of a small enterprise had a salary that was lower than the average statutory salary in the country. So it's not the small and medium-sized enterprises that make headlines about lucrative option packages. Here's the value creation and moderation that's at stake. The question today is not primarily who is the most small-scale company friendly on Stortinget. I think that most parties, not all of them, can sign up to figures who are committed to providing good framework conditions for the development of businesses in small and medium-sized enterprises. The question is whether or not it is appropriate for this policy to be brought together in a single programming message. The Christian People's Party believes that small and medium-sized enterprises have specific needs that require coordinated policy-making by public authorities. It is often the Executive Director himself who needs to deal with the paperwork, as well as the management of the enterprise, that simplification measures are essential. Often the small enterprise is also a family business. Many such enterprises are approaching the date of generation change, and the design of inheritance tax is an important issue for the company's continued existence. As part of the other speakers before me, the organisations representing small businesses believe that there is a need for a separate monitoring message that can trigger an overall strategy for framework conditions influenced or controlled by the authorities. So if you ask the industry yourself, there's no doubt about what the answer is. Several of the areas mentioned in Document No. The 8 proposal we are now considering is part of what the red-green parties will call an active industrial policy. In the Soria Moria Declaration, government parties have even promised to look at some of them, for example. the question of the relief of the inheritance tax in the event of a generation change. Speakers of the government parties have pointed out both in the position and in the debate here that many measures relevant to small and medium-sized enterprises – although I have to admit that the representative Holmås may well have gone those framework conditions far – will be dealt with both in budgetary terms and in communications on various industrial policy themes. That's right, of course. With such a dominant share of employment in industry as these enterprises represent, it would really be a performance to provide large-scale documents on taxes, levies or other industrial policy instruments not affecting SMEs. However, there should be no decisive argument to reject a separate big message on the topic. The question is therefore: does the wide variety of small and medium-sized enterprises in Norwegian business still have so many common challenges that it is appropriate to make a separate large-scale notification? The companies themselves say yes. The opposition says yes. Unfortunately, the government and the majority of the Stortinge say no. It is a no that cannot be justified on a nutritional basis. It's probably a no that's coming because the government will use its majority to set the agenda they themselves want. Unfortunately, business needs come second. But I have recorded that several speakers from the government parties have mentioned Document No. The 8 proposal and the comments in the setting as important input. It is certainly not the opposition that has heard when they have met the red-green government and their representatives. I take them on the floor, and hope that some of the things mentioned in Document No. The 8 proposal, can become a reality, for the benefit of Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1655	In relation to the latter, I can only stress on behalf of the Center Party that we are pleased that the topic has been addressed. There are a number of specific issues in which, in various ways, they are followed up, so that's the last thing that the previous speaker said, which is the point: what is an appropriate form of bringing these issues forward well? What the government has said is that it is a particularly big challenge for innovation and migration. There's a considerable amount of work to do. Thus, we believe it is natural to make a separate big message about it. In relation to the Left’s representative, the Centre agrees on the issue of its own strategy for the smallest enterprises. It is quite obvious that in a number of areas, the situation of individual and small enterprises with limited responsibilities is significantly different and the need for control is different from that of large companies. It must be reflected in the legislation applicable to the different sizes of the companies. The centre party will stress that the work to improve the framework conditions for the small enterprises is something that needs to be ongoing, as announced in the Soria Moria Declaration. We point out that the Ministry of Finance will set up a sample early next year to consider removing the audit obligation for the smallest companies. For the treatment of Ot.prp. No 55 for 2005-2006 on share law, the majority of the Judicial Committee pointed to a number of areas in which simplified legislation has to be explored by several departments in order to facilitate establishment and operation of the smallest enterprises. In particular, it was pointed out that there is an unnecessary complexity of legislation that could be the cause of the large growth in the establishment of the Norwegian branch of foreign registered enterprises, the so-called NUFs. The government's aim must be to have Norway in the international stage of business simplification, while at the same time having company forms that provide safe and socially sound conditions in the labour market. The last is very important for the Center Party and the Government. I would have liked the opposition to focus more on it, because it is quite central to ensuring that the competitive conditions in business become neat and real, that we can have corporate forms that we can control, and that we can ensure that what is Norwegian tradition in terms of the organisation of work and business. Investments for small and medium-sized enterprises for infrastructure are central. It is therefore gratifying that the Government is following up what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration on Broadband for all, and that we are now gradually able to get an extension where one replaces demand-driven expansion with a supply-driven expansion, which is absolutely necessary for small businesses to establish themselves across the country, with the quality of communication necessary to compete. Otherwise, it is quite obvious that facilitating the generational shift by changing the inheritance tax rules is quite central. For very many small enterprises, operating funds are often only necessary to obtain reasonable labour income. There is nothing more than working time, and thus it will inherit a means of operating that only gives such income, seawardly feels unreasonable, as conditions are many times today. As others have also pointed out, cooperative law is now under investigation, and we will soon come to the conclusion that we will have a proposal for a separate cooperative law. There are quite a number of businesses that can be organised in a cooperative way, and that will be a real contribution to our ability to have a greater variation in the way we are going to operate smaller, economic businesses. Many small businesses are also linked to female business start-ups, and in order to improve their conditions, it is important, for example, to grant social security rights to seafarers in line with employees, for example. at birth, as promised in the Soria Moria Declaration. Finally, the centre party sees it as appropriate that we get a big message about innovation and migration, because it is particularly demanding. Otherwise, there is ongoing work to improve concretely the development potential of small and medium-sized enterprises, and there we are moving in step.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1676	I am pleased that the proposers are occupied by small and medium-sized enterprises. I am also pleased that this government is. But I am not in agreement with the proposers when they say that the political priorities of this government have led to greater burdens on small and medium-sized enterprises. It also contrasts with SSB figures which show that there has been a strong growth in employment in small and medium-sized enterprises in the last year. It's in companies with up to 50 added that the growth is the largest. It seems to me that the Government's effort to facilitate small and medium-sized enterprises is producing results. In the proposal, the proposers point to a number of things they think it has to be done with, among other things. the need to focus on simplification, on ALTINN, on research and development, and the need to put in place measures to improve access to labour. And it must be gratifying to the proposers that the government of this year has taken a number of measures aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises – and more will come next year. One bets including one bets to simplify and facilitate business by reducing the number of forms and the rate of digital solutions. The aim is for companies to be able to spend more time on innovation and production and less time on administration. A comprehensive survey has also been carried out, leading to concrete simplifications in enterprises. This will make everyday life easier for small businesses, which are the ones that pay the most attention to administrative burdens. In the next year’s budget, a major effort has also been made on the ALTINN, which will become the business community’s common portal for the electronic services provided by the public by 2008. The focus on Innovation Norway, which has just targeted SMEs, will be continued next year. In the next year's budget, we have also found room for a historic commitment to nutrition research. The alert innovation message has already been discussed and, as you know, will contribute to promoting innovation and innovation in order to secure business and jobs in the future. A variety of business activities will become a central theme in this context, including: the framework conditions for entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises. For the Government, it is important that Norway is a good country to run business, and that we pursue an active industrial policy in close dialogue with industry. There is a lot of activity and optimism in Norwegian business. The proposers can be confident that the government party will do what they can to maintain this optimism and continue to focus on facilitating good and stable framework conditions for SMEs. Finally, I want both the President, everyone in the Chamber and all the small and medium-sized enterprises a really good Christmas!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1695	The proposal for a separate Communication on a global strategy to ensure better framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises was an excellent opportunity for government parties to present their new active industrial policy. Unfortunately, it was once again with promises and talk, and no action. It is much like the fate of industrial policy. In opposition, a new industrial policy was hotly discussed. The Industry Committee was to be followed up with its own monitoring message. The government, on the other hand, refers to industrial policy after a long period of silence only in a few brief sections of the Ministry of Industry’s budget proposal. The Government Parties and the Government refer to their own work on the paper on innovation policy. The special thing here is the progress of this work. Not until spring 2008 is the time for the notification. Let us look at the progress that has been made in the work on e.g. the ownership message and other matters of the Government, it will be early in the autumn of 2008 or perhaps in the winter of 2009. This is just late enough for any concrete proposals to be pushed over during the next majorisation period. I don't think it's particularly obsessive or ambitious. On the contrary, I do not see an innovation message until 2008 as a sort of break in business policy. As the representative Eldegard said, business is doing well. It does, of course, after four years with a non-socialist government. But this is about laying the foundation for future jobs, future growth in small and medium-sized enterprises. Document No 8:7 addresses many important themes for this group of enterprises. First of all, I think it is important that the Storting and the Government understand the importance of this part of business for growth, value creation and employment. Norwegian business is largely made up of small and medium-sized enterprises. The pyramid is very flat. 99 pst. of the enterprises have fewer than 100 employees, and they account for 65 pst. of all jobs in the business community. 97 pst. of the enterprises have less than 20 employees and are responsible for 34 pst. of all jobs in the business community. 85 pst. of the enterprises, those with less than five employees, represent 10 pst. of employment. This means that small and medium-sized enterprises create large values and many jobs and represent good growth opportunities in future businesses. It is also important to note that the large business organisations, the NHO, the General Organisation for Trade and Services and the Confederation of Enterprises strongly recommend a proposal for a separate strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises. It suggests that these enterprises have special challenges that it is important that we capture in business policy. These are challenges that may not be clear enough in the debate on industrial policy, which is largely about the top companies in business. Let me, for example. point to the tax FUNN scheme, which this government has tightened up in its budget. The potential of small and medium-sized enterprises to invest in research has been reduced. This is part of the cutting-off of research, particularly affecting small and medium-sized enterprises. Moreover, the increase in taxes on wealth affects small and medium-sized enterprises in particular because they do not have an alternative capital market to draw their funding from. When we received the ownership message last week, we could see that there was hardly one word about how a person strengthens the capital base and ownership of private small and medium-sized enterprises. In the same direction, last year's reversal of the proposal to increase the rate of depreciation of machinery, which could have been a useful tool for many small and medium-sized enterprises. I would also like to mention the new competition policy and public sector procurement legislation. When purchasing nearly DKK 240 billion from the public sector and many of these purchases come from small and medium-sized enterprises, it is serious when the Government announces that they will raise the tendering limit to EU level, which is thus 1.8 million. NOK, the limit of the day being 500000 kroner. It will exclude many small and medium-sized enterprises and their ability to compete for public procurement. Similarly, the Government dropped the mandatory obligation to publish for purchases of less than 0,5 million. kr. It creates a greater problem for small and medium-sized enterprises compared to being able to compete for these types of purchases. A flexible labour market for small and medium-sized enterprises is also particularly important because small and medium-sized enterprises are particularly vulnerable to shortages of employees. If you lack one or two employees in a small enterprise, it can have major consequences for that enterprise. It's more serious than it is for the big businesses. The proposals in Document No. 8:7 should have been a good opportunity to show that one is offensive in business policy. Unfortunately, the treatment shows that the Government has little ability to be offensive to small and medium-sized enterprises. The right considers that we need to have a special focus on this part of business, both because these businesses are important, and because they have special challenges and needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1724	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1651]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1740	In the recent ageing of the state budget for 2006, the Government has a thorough review of changes in taxes and taxes that have occurred in the current year. To a large extent, there is an increase in government revenue in the financial year. In St. prp. No In addition, 31 for 2006-2007, changes in revenue and expenditure are addressed in a number of chapters of the Ministry of Finance. The document also proposes various changes to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. This applies to the framework of municipalities, to the return of property and to the framework of county municipalities. Under the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, proposals are being made in three areas: environmental taxes on agriculture, tolls and axles of companies under the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. In the case of the State pension fund – Rest of the world, the Government makes proposals for changes in the transfer to the fund and from the fund. The structural oil - corrected deficit for 2006 has been estimated at DKK 65.9 billion. The 2006 national budget, the additionalproposal for 2006, which was launched after the government change, and the revised national budget 2006. The use of petroleum revenues in addition to expected real returns from the State pension fund – Foreign was estimated at DKK 10 billion in the last document, compared with DKK 12 billion in the national budget in 2006 and the additionalproposal for 2006. The change must be seen in relation to the growth of fund capital at the end of last year. The government informed the Storting in the past about changes in tax input. The collection of taxes and charges will be adjusted by DKK 2.5 billion in both 2006 and 2007. The share of income growth that can be traced back to economic developments is excluded. For the current year, they go up the tax revenue of DKK 2.5 billion to the local government sector. Consequently, the estimate for the structural oil-corrected deficit on the State budget is kept at the same level as in the 2007 national budget. The oil-corrected government budget deficit has been reduced by DKK 13.4 billion since the Stortinget adopted the budget last fall. The reduction is largely due to increased tax revenue from the mainland economy. If a holding day’s money and interest is excluded, the costs will be increased by approx. NOK 3.4 billion from the balance of the budget to the estimate in the newly aged budget. Expenditure increased by approx. 4.3 billion kroner as a result of changes in vows in the first six months of the year, while expenditure is reduced by about One billion DKK in proposals for the Storting in the second half of the year. The net cash flow from the petroleum industry in 2006 is now charged to NOK 357.9 billion. That's a big amount. This sum is transferred to the State pension fund — Foreign. Since the oil-corrected deficit in the State budget is covered by a transfer from the State pension fund – abroad, the fund will thus allocate a net of NOK 300.5 billion in 2006. Interest income and dividends are worth $49 billion. The total surplus on the State budget and the State pension fund – abroad is therefore estimated at NOK 349.5 billion. Newly aged budget 2006 shows an oil-corrected deficit of DKK 57.4 billion. It's $13.4 billion lower than in the 2006 budget. When considering proposals in the proposal we are now considering, revenue will increase by 22.2 billion kroner since the budget was approved last fall. Then a non-combined petroleum business and loan transactions. For the same period, expenditure has increased by DKK 8.8 billion, including the cost of petroleum and loan transactions held outside. The government points out, of course, that the newly aged budget could differ from the final account. It is linked to the fact that a non-existence of the final consumption will be exact on regulated expenditure schemes and on tax receipts and the level of the leases transferred from 2006 to 2007. The financial committee's attitude to the recent ageing of the state budget for 2006 is broadly in line with all the government's promise proposals. The party of progress also stands for a completely different course in this matter than the rest of the political environment. The lot has divergent suggestions on a number of points. In the setting, the bulk of progress is made to halve the VAT on electricity and to eliminate the consumption charge on electricity between 1 November and 31. December of this year. The lot also states that the debts of toll companies in the road sector will be eliminated. This proposal alone has a cost of NOK 11.6 billion. In addition, the Progress Party will reduce the debt of regional health care providers to the State by NOK 1 billion. The progress party only suggests using approx. in the setting that we are currently dealing with. $15 billion more than the other parts of the Biggest game go in for. If the Progress Party's arrangement had been agreed, it would undoubtedly have major negative consequences for the economy of our country. In this setting, the Advance Party points out that tax and tax estimates have increased by $12 billion. The lot refers to the extent to which different tax and tax rates could have been reduced if the income increase had been used to reduce taxes and duties. On this basis, the Progress Party claims that a range of taxes and charges proposed by the lot could have been reduced without loss of revenue for the State. As I have pointed out earlier in my article, the adjustment of tax contributions comes largely from the growth of the Norwegian economy. The economic activity swings over time, as we know. The revenue of the State budget from taxes and charges may gradually be lower, as we do, for example. was experienced in 2002, 2003 and 2004. The Government Party attaches great importance to the contribution of budgetary policy to a stable development in the Norwegian economy, in accordance with the rule of action. If, because of better economic conditions, more revenue were to result in increased expenditure or lower tax rates, budgetary policy would provide an additional stimulus to the economy in good time. The same would be true if budgetary policy were to further slow down the economy in bad times. Lower tax revenues due to poor cyclical conditions would result in higher tax rates or lower costs. Thus, the party's policy of progress will be destabilising in economic development. The economic cycles will thus be reinforced. Such a line broke fundamentally with the political course that the government party stands for. The largest opposition party in Stortinget will have changes in tax rates according to the fluctuations in the economic cycle. This will result in the tax system becoming unincorporated. In turn, it will be harmful also for those who are going to invest and who are going to do business in our country. They simply require that we have a stable tax regime. On the other hand, the step forward line is an active contribution to the opposite. In the opinion of the Financial Committee, a comment from the Advance Party states that: ‘The European Commission recommends Norway to phase out the one-off charge on new cars in view of the functioning of competition’. This design is directly incorrect. The European Commission has never recommended Norwegian Governing Authorities to remove the single fee. I remind you that tax policy is not part of the EEA Agreement. For this reason, the Commission cannot make recommendations or recommendations to Norway in this area. The setting we are now discussing has broad support in the Financial Committee. In fact, it is only the Progress Party that has divergent proposals. Based on this, we can conclude that there is a significant difference in economic thinking and money use between the majority and the minority in the financial committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1787	Every December, the Storting makes something remarkable by adjusting the government budget in line with what the government's costs and revenues seem to be. No company would have done anything like that, but in public, you can't spend money that's not allowed. The new age left little attention, and that is a pity, because here there are some interesting information about what has changed since the 2006 state budget battle. What would the consequences be if we had spent NOK 8.8 billion more on the state budget? Would the State have less to tell if the hated document fee was reduced by 10 pst. or if the one-off charges on new cars were reduced by 10 pst. ? The 2006 updated figures show that the oil-corrected deficit is estimated at SEK 57.4 billion, which represents a reduction in so-called oil money consumption of a total of DKK 13.4 billion since the adoption of the 2006 State budget. At the same time, the expenditure of the State budget has increased by DKK 8.8 billion to NOK 665.2 billion, if you keep the petroleum industry out of the way. The interest rate has increased somewhat, but the economy has not gone down and home even if the cost has increased. For the income of the country, estimates also differ considerably. The increase in tax revenue from the mainland economy is NOK 12.2 billion. The net cash flow from petroleum activities has increased by approximately DKK 30 billion in addition to estimates in the State budget for 2006. This should give room for action and lead to visions. The Progress Party believes that there are three major grips: the debt of the bombers should be paid off, as the drivers have already paid for the roads several times through taxes. Part of the debt of health enterprises should be paid down, and we should lighten the taxes on electricity. Repayment of toll companies' debts will not be considered as accounting costs but as a reallocation of wealth, from current assets to fixed assets, i.e. an investment in lasting values, not a reduction in national wealth. The recent ageing figures also underline that it is neither possible nor necessary to try to fine-tuning the economy, as the Storting really does with regard to the budgetary procedure. In the context of the treatment of the State budget, all the lots, except for the Advance Party, stress the need not to spend more oil money than originally proposed by the Government, because it is allegedly important for interest and interest rates. One year later, when the budget is being resold, it has repeatedly been shown that it is not as important to deal with the same rigour as in the original budget. This proves, inter alia, that: the increased cost of NOK 8.8 billion. Obviously, the rule of action does not prevent the actual use of oil money that is greater than what is so piously proposed in the ordinary state budget. For 2006, something decent has been achieved by a net lower use of oil money than foreseen in the budget, although expenditure has increased by DKK 8.8 billion. This shows that there is not really as much difference between the costs of the Progress Party's 2006 alternative budget proposal and the government's final expenditure as the other parties like to present it. It is also worth highlighting that the Progress Party in its alternative budget is turning the expenditure on investments, as opposed to the Government, which has more expenditure on public consumption. In addition, the figures for tax revenue generated in the new age of 2006 indicate that the Ministry of Finance has operated with an excessive loss of income in the calculations they have made for tax relief. The party proposed to reduce the document fee by 10 pst. Recent ageing figures show that this could have been done without loss of income for the country in 2006. Total tax revenue is estimated to increase by approx. 33 billion kroner, of which 12.2 billion kroner are linked to mainland Norway. The loss of revenue by the State as a result of the proposals of the Progress Party for reductions in taxes and levies for 2006 would be much lower than that taken into account in the calculations presented by the Ministry of Finance in the context of the 2006 budget, and consequently the estimated so-called use of oil money in the alternative budget of the Progress Party is too high. A number of taxes and taxes proposed by the Advance Party could in reality have been reduced without the State's proceeds. The one-off charge for the purchase of new cars could have been reduced by 10 p.m., as the Progress Party proposed, and yet the State would receive higher revenue from the levy than that provided for in the budgetary procedure. There was no need to increase the VAT on food, and in addition, the general VAT rate could be reduced without the country having received less revenue. The inheritance tax could have been reduced without loss of income, and the top tax could have been reduced. Instead, the country is adding billions to these items for 2006. The interesting thing about these figures is that they show that the tax relief proposed by the Progress Party is within reach, and that when you look at the final figures, there are not many oil billions separating the Progress Party and the other political parties of the Storting. So a correction: in the position of the Financial Committee, there is simply a typographical error in our proposal No. 1, which is on page 17. It's about cap. 1323, heading 70. The date to which reference is made shall be 31 December 2005, not 31 December 2006. I ask that this be corrected. It is clear from the text on the front page of the vote that we took into account when we tabled the proposal. I am therefore addressing the proposals made by the Progress Party in the position of the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1821	The representative, Leirstein, has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1824	In the last debate before Christmas, it's tempting to try to appear like the Christmas event, but I'll leave it. I agree with some of the considerations put forward by the Committee's chairman, namely that the phasing-out is not a new budgetary procedure, but that it is a document that provides interesting information on developments throughout the year. I also notice that the representative, Leirstein, almost sees it as a problem that less money is spent than what underlies the so-called rule of action. I think it should be a great deal of joy. It creates greater security for pensions for future pensioners. There is still a large gap between the pension obligations of the State and the Pension Fund. So the fact that this year you have used something less than what was meant, I think I should enjoy a total accumulation and not be presented as a problem. Otherwise, I notice that in the new era, the tax revenue from the mainland has increased by over 12 billion DKK in the last year – in addition to what had been foreseen – and that the committee leader blames it for the growth of the Norwegian economy. I agree. The question, however, is what is creating economic growth? The right, Christian People's Party and the left have pointed out in the setting that the growth we are now seeing can also be attributed to the economic policy pursued. It's not that economic growth comes from above or flushes inwards. Of course, economic activity plays an important role, but a responsible economic policy, as well as growth-stimulating tax relief, has contributed to the creation of more enterprises, more and safer jobs and growth in tax revenues. I therefore believe that this document appears to be a good confirmation that the current government was wrong when the election campaign last year claimed that the choice was between tax relief and community. Rather, on the contrary — we have now seen that lower taxes have contributed more money to the community, and thus we have more opportunity to contribute to ensuring well-being. After we had the debate on the state budget for next year, there have been a number of reports showing that the warning lights are flashing in the Norwegian economy. I would therefore like to end by pointing out that we are now facing a year when the risk of overheating in the Norwegian economy is significant, with the consequences it could have for, among other things. the level of interest rates, and also for the growth of the Norwegian economy in the short term. From the right, I would like to inform you that it is time to tighten up on fiscal policy, that there is a need to stimulate more savings, and that more measures are needed to increase labour supply. We believe that it is wrong to leave too much of the business cycle management to monetary policy. We believe that fiscal policy should also play an important role in this context, and that we can facilitate the removal of some of the bottlenecks we have in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1837	Just a few brief comments from the stand of the Christian People's Party. In other contexts, we have been told that this government in two years has had about 12 billion kroner more to go with than the outgoing government would have had if it had continued. That's an interesting number, especially when you look at this balancing setting. In fact, it says that for 2006 we will get $12.2 billion more in tax revenue. And then it says that it's largely due to the economic situation. In other words, you prove yourself in your own attitude that what leads to increased tax intake has to do not only with taxes, but that it may have so much to do with what economic policies you put together, and what, through a well-functioning business life, can form the basis for obtaining income for the common good. That's the one thing I want to say. Then there's one expense item that I'm going to stay with, and that's child protection. Over the last two years, I believe that, both in terms of revision and ageing, there has had to be extra funding for the protection of the state's children. This may indicate two factors: either that there is insufficient financial control over the protection of the state’s children — it has to be evaluated, as mentioned in the proposal — or it may be the more dramatic situation that more and more people need to be helped by child protection. It may also be a good thing if it is such that more conditions are revealed than before. At the same time, we have now seen over a few years that the need for child protection is so growing that we can really put some big questions about what development it has actually revealed in all our municipalities. Not least in this city, which I represent myself, where the needs seem to be increasing year by year. I just want to say from the Christian People's Party that exactly the evaluation that the Government is now doing, we will follow very closely, because it might tell us something about that although the majority in this country is doing very well, there are also groups that might need to get further increased attention, and that need to get more than they are getting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1846	I will limit myself to commenting on two aspects of this new aging. One is the exceptionally good tax input, and the other is the additional danger signals that we now see for overheating in the Norwegian economy. In the past, I have argued that, in the long term, the tax policy of the Left will lead to increased tax access and thus more towards the Community, even if we reduce the overall tax burden. It is the tax policy mechanism that is decisive, not whether the sum of the individual State budget shows a total tax burden or fiscal aggravation. This was in time ridiculed by Jens Stoltenberg, who called such a policy ‘voodoo economy’ and by Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen, who in the newspaper on 22 March this year called this ‘humbug’. So once again in this document we've got the fasit. The income from taxes and charges from mainland Norway is estimated to be approximately DKK 12,2 billion, as just mentioned by the representative Syversen, and it is in the balance of the budget for 2006. The figures show that the tax intake has increased each year over the last four years, despite a significant but targeted tax base up to and including 2005. So it is the results of this tax policy that the Government is now enjoying, and it is neither voodoo nor humbug, but a targeted and good policy. The government argues that this is due to the economic situation. I do not disagree with that either, but the economic situation is related to the policy pursued, and not least to the policy pursued. We experienced this painfully when we took over the government power in 2001, with rising interest rates and rising unemployment. And we remember that in his speech in February 2002, the Governor of the Central Bank began to say that the Norwegian economy was in bad shape. It was the cyclical situation that started the previous period. Then we have seen that a better tax policy for business leads to more business start-ups, more jobs, and thus increased tax access and a better cyclical situation. It's a proof of that in the last few years. The Government is responsible for defining the framework for a responsible fiscal policy. I have recently become uncertain as to how much of this responsibility the government actually assumes. Much indicates that the government leaves too much of the cyclical management of monetary policy. It is only to point out that Norway’s Bank has adjusted the interest rate path/forecast twice after the 2005 elections, and that the interest rate is now higher than that used in the interest rate forecast presented in the 2006 national budget. Government policies with an expansionary fiscal policy combined with poor incentives for private savings, fiscal austerity and inadequate measures to meet labour demand will have to result in faster and greater increases in interest rates than is strictly necessary. Higher interest rates in Norway than in our trading partners usually turn into a strong crown, which weakens the competitiveness of Norwegian jobs and businesses, and then we get into an unfortunate round, which we have tasted before. For this reason, the Left has held a different course both in the 2006 budget and in the 2007 budget. I don't necessarily directly disagree with the Minister of Finance that isolatedly means not half a billion or one billion necessarily very much for the interest rate or the pressure in the economy, but the signal effect and the willingness to adjust the price also in the future, does so, especially if those who are actually responsible for the exercise of monetary policy send such signals. It is only to look at the impact of the opinion of the Governor of the Central Bank in connection with an online meeting of the Business of the Day last Thursday, where market interest rates rose sharply following the interpretation of Gédrem’s opinions in order to increase interest rates more strongly and more strongly. There is therefore reason to challenge the Minister of Finance both to show the willingness to take responsibility and thus to change the course needed in the situation we are now in, and to warn that moderate wage settlements will be necessary in the years to come, if one is to be able to land the cyclical peak in a soft way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1861	We are now treating a new age with major changes, large increases in income, large increases in expenditure — but overall a sharp improvement in government finances. As several of the previous speakers have pointed out, there are two points I would also like to address, and that is tax and expansionary fiscal policy. We are in high international economic conditions, and when we combine it with historically high investments in the oil and gas sector, it must necessarily give rise to an outstanding high level of activity in the Norwegian economy. It is then quite natural that there is an increase in tax revenue, which is not the result of the tax relief of the Bondevik II government. It becomes too easy when the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left say in a comment: ‘By doing so, lower taxes have contributed more money to the community and increased opportunities to extend well-being both in municipalities and nationally.’ Historical figures show that the context is not like that. It is the economic cycle that is most critical, and still the simple fact remains that lower tax rates are also, on their own, giving lower tax revenues. The opposition criticises the Government for an expansionary fiscal policy. The government prioritizes municipal welfare and transport investment. The opposition has clearly stated that a fiscal priority is given to individuals, so that private consumption and private investment can increase, and a priority is also given to privatisation in a number of areas, which, as one believes, will provide a better welfare development for the population as a whole. In my view, the opposition's proposal in relation to the expansiveness of the budget is irrelevant in terms of expansiveness, and I would like to stress: unimportant. If it is important, it is much more expansive than the government's draft budget, because if we look at the impact of the opposition's draft budget now, which only takes effect in 2008, their draft budget is far more expansive than the government's draft budget. This is also recognised by the trade unions. What needs to be included in the history books of the 2006 government budget debate is that there are insignificant differences in the 2007 budget between the former government alliance and the current government, while for 2008 the opposition's draft budget is more extensive than the government's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1879	As Finnmarking with plans to go home tomorrow and go skiing, I have the sense that this debate will not be too long. I understand. I will not make a long debate with my post either, but I will still focus on some issues. The Progress Party makes a great point that it is neither possible nor necessary to fine-tuning the economy, as is the case in the Stortinge during the budgetary procedure. In my view, all levels of government, whether in the case of municipalities, county or state, must be budgeted for by reference to the information available to you at the time when the draft budgets are being dealt with. The same needs to be true of changes that have to be made in subsequent revisions and changes that occur during the year. I even come from a small municipality where we have had to live with uncertainty and make changes when we actually have information that says this is necessary. This applies not least where an operator has estimates and uncertainties about interest rate and price developments. In the same way as the State adjusts municipalities and municipalities, the course along the way to make the budget an effective management tool. I think it would be a bad signal if the state did not consider it necessary to fine-tune the economy, as I see the comments of the Progress Party. Then I understand – and I understand it very well – that there is a big difference between a government budget and a small municipal budget. At least I know that there are several fewer zeros in a municipal budget than in a government budget. The main objection to the Party's fiscal policy is that they will have changes in tax rates in line with the cyclical fluctuations. It is difficult to understand that this can be in favour of those who are to invest and operate in the country. The farms want a stable and predictable system. Income from taxes and charges varies. We saw that in the last three years, from 2002. It cannot be that, when there are good times in the Norwegian economy, death and life are to be increased or tax rates reduced. Similarly, when there are bad times, there is a need to increase tax rates or reduce expenditure. I want to get into a couple of relationships that the Progress Party has brought up, and that concerns the toll debt. The Ministry of Transport has estimated that the debt at the end of 2005 was DKK 11.4 billion. So it's like that of a lot of the funds required for tolls, going directly to the financing of projects that are not for the payment of debt. The winding-up of all toll projects will not only require debt cover, but it will also have to assume the future obligations of toll companies. It might be interesting to hear if the Progress Party is for or against bombing around Oslo. 29 pst. of all toll revenue in 2005 came from the bombing around Oslo. And the Progress Party in Oslo is going in for Oslopackak 3 to continue. So it's the greatest toll project of the time. Then it is that the price tag of the amendments that the Progress Party has in the vote is NOK 15 billion, and it must be able to say very carefully that it is more than «a sausage in the slaughter time». The right and left have a note where, among other things, indicates that the interest rate path has increased and claims that the Government is pursuing an expansive fiscal policy in combination with poor incentives for private savings. It has also been repeated earlier in the debate by Sanner. With regard to the 2006 state budget, it was estimated to be roughly neutral in relation to economic developments. So it wasn't expansive. The increase in interest rates is simply due to the fact that it is going well – it is going very well – in Norway, while interest rates are slightly below neutral levels. We agree with Norway's Bank that it is irresponsible to pursue expansionary monetary policy when it is a boom, and neither do we. With regard to the allegation of inadequate action to increase labour supply, it is known that the Government is working on this in several arenas and is taking labour shortages seriously. There can be mention, as is certainly known in this room, of public sector requirements to also employ people who do not have full performance. A strategy for immigration from both EEA countries and other countries is being pursued. It can also be mentioned that the welfare message has a number of measures to get people from social security to work. Through the pension reform, the Government provides incentives to make pensioners work longer. I want to give the government credit for taking hold of these things.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1911	Here is a transport policy that joins the balancing debate. Norwegian economy has gone badly for many years now! The state has had to spin and save and turn every single penny – in particular, it has affected the state’s road construction. Over many years, it has been so small with crowns in the treasury that unfortunately there has not been enough to finance the necessary construction of highways. It is this embarrassing, tight economy with too little money that has forced a majority in the Stortinget – a larger majority with more parties than the government parties at all times – to issue coercive loans to car users in some parts of the country. Yes, it has been so difficult for governments and large numbers to finance the state's roads that at the end of last year, that is, in 2005, there was DKK 11.6 billion, several of which have been involved, in total toll for projects that have been completed and started, and where coercive loans – often referred to as tolls – are part of the funding base. As everyone in this room knows, and as most people also very well know, this is only partly correct. Unfortunately, it is true that the total amount of tolls is NOK 11.6 billion, measured at the end of the year. Many – very many – car users, both individuals and businesses, are reminded of this not only daily but several times a day. Every time they pass the toll station, they are reminded that at the same time they pay interest and instalments on a loan that the borrower has been forced by state coercion. Fortunately, it is not right that the state has had a bad economy and has had it for many years. On the contrary, it's just that the state is richer than ever, that wealth has flowed on and now actually flows into the state treasury. In a recent calculation example, Professor Øystein Noreng, with a set of reasonably realistic assumptions, pointed out that the fund at the end of 2030 could amount to NOK 10 000 billion. I remind you that the estimate at the end of 2007 is approx. NOK 2,200 billion. Unfortunately, it is true that the state, by various governments and by a large majority in the Grand Duchy, has nevertheless, despite the large and increasing wealth, seized the issue of coercive loans. It has not been necessary, and it is not necessary. In the opinion of the Progress Party, it is neither necessary nor decent. This state has been able to afford to pay, and the state can afford to pay – better advice than ever! For this reason, the Progress Party will delete the toll per toll. 31 December 2005. Mainly, the installations have been built and put into service. Social economy is not an exact science. But in the Progress Party we feel convinced that the Norwegian economy will not in any way fall off the hinges if the bombs are removed. In the Progress Party, we are convinced that the daily $10 bills that many people can not pay on their way to work, to the City Centre or to deliver goods will not lead to a buying party and will not lead to overheating of the economy. The only ‘hot’ in this context is the heated debate that often happens when the Progress Party opposes the use of tolls and goes in to remove them. Toll removal is part of the overall transport policy of the Progress Party. In the future, we will take different steps to ensure that the state can actually finance the construction of the state's roads in full. We take different steps to secure funding beyond the traditional framework of the national transport plan. We want investment budgets as part of the state budget, because roads are investment. We want infrastructure funds with earmarked use of the returns. We will use Public Private Cooperation – a well-known method, with good results of two pilot projects completed. The only option in relation to the Government's own method, project financing, is actually OPS – Public Private Cooperation. The government's own method has been killed and canceled by the Minister of Finance, or, perhaps, by the Ministry of Finance. For it was as a magnificence representative, and not as a finance minister, that the representative Halvorsen referred to a former Minister of Finance like this: the Minister of Finance is like a city original with money piercing out of the mattress while the roof races hang and sling. “It was then and it was now.” Backwards, the Progress Party clears the toll used and, precisely, the ageing of the year’s budget is an opportunity to balance. That is why the Progress Party is also promoting a proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox We want a review of the transport projects adopted in 2006, and these are not small businesses. That's 10 billion kroner – 7 billion more in tolls. We don't want to stop the projects, but we want to correct the funding. A possible alternative method of cancelling the debt on newly adopted projects is that the State simply enters the borrower's place, renegotiates the loans and pays down over a few years, whether it should pinch the money or the liquidity. I have noticed that the Progress Party has received criticism that we do not propose the deletion of tolls in budgetary terms. Reportedly, we do not keep what we promise, and supposedly we do not have coverage. Today it is budgetary ageing, and we are making proposals – with coverage. The fact that the government parties and, in part, other opposition parties presented in November 2005 as exact science and with partial exclusive right to define the line between responsible and irresponsible budgetary frameworks does not appear to be as precise and equally clearly defined in December 2006. Here's the economic space. The Progress Party rejects the need to save all additional funds for future pensions. A balancing between real/real investment in Norway and a financial position/financial investment abroad takes care of national wealth, but there may be different views on the balance sheet point without thus appearing to be socially irresponsible. The point of view of the Progress Party is that it is also important that today’s population should be able to experience a clear positive effect of Norway’s becoming a nation. In the view of the Progress Party, many will find it positive when the toll stations are demolished and the tolls are removed. It is this Progress Party proposes today, but as the rest of the Storting once again rejects.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1946	I am not going to extend the debate that much, but I would like to add some comments to the proposal of the Advance Party to reduce the debt of health companies to the state by NOK 1 billion. In fact, the size has decided that health businesses should balance up by the end of 2006. It has been decided by the Storting. The only exception per person. the current date is the regional undertaking Health Mid-Norway, which has received a deferral of 350 million. NOK, so they can go SEK 350 million. kr in deficit next year. Other health establishments have been required to balance their finances. Figures reported show that during 2006, health enterprises are heading towards a deficit of between DKK 1 billion and DKK 1.5 billion, i.e. that it is far from the balance sheet point with regard to regional health establishments. This is also referred to in the context of the treatment of the State budget by the Health and Welfare Committee. Health enterprises have been in deficit for a longer time. This is not something that has arisen now, it has been over the years – yes, in fact, since the introduction of the health reform. This has led to the accumulation of significant liabilities in regional health firms and the liquidity of enterprises. This makes it difficult for health businesses to meet the challenges in the years to come with the burden of debt they have – to the state – in addition to having to raise both overdraft loans and other loans to serve the daily costs. This is a problem and is going to be a big problem in the future. As you know, overdraft loans are costly loans also for health businesses. The Progress Party wants health businesses to get on their feet, in order to rebuild liquidity in order to meet the future also on the investment side. There is a need for significant investment in the health sector. As long as the liquidity in healthcare companies has been thinned, this becomes a problem – it has already become a problem. The Progress Party is therefore proposing to cancel NOK 1 billion of the debt you have to the State. We are not talking about the accumulated accumulated deficit of health care businesses – it is not covered by government borrowing, but we are talking about the investment loans in which health care companies are obliged to borrow only money from the state, which amounts to approx. 9 billion kroner for now. So the proposal is simply about improving the situation of enterprises in order to meet future investments, because the liquidity situation is extremely fragile for regional health enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1964	I feel the need to comment on some of the things that the opposition has said here on the tap, before Christmas. Both I, Jan Tore Sanner and Lars Sponheim should be able to agree that the Norwegian economy has less impact on both the American and European economies than on the other hand. So in the period we've been sitting and heading, especially in the last year, oil revenue has risen, investment in the oil sector has risen, and it's not because of tax cuts in the oil sector. Demand has risen internationally. Meg familiar is not due to the demand increase local tax credits given either by Jan Tore Sanner or by Lars Sponheim. At the same time, a reduction in tax may result in an improved tax income in isolation within an area, but not in excess of the amount of income provided at the same time. Therefore, it is smart to make effective changes to the tax system that generate increased revenues in some places and to implement tax changes that do not lead to improved efficiency in the economy. For example, the policy that has been pursued with regard to parts of the conversion of housing taxes has led to people investing a lot in housing instead of investing in small and medium-sized enterprises, placing their income there. The representatives of the previous government coalition can take responsibility for this is the Statistical Central Bureau just published, namely that the differences between the rich and the poor increased during the four years when the previous government was in power. I would like them to come up – not right now, President, but perhaps after Christmas – and take real responsibility for it. We'll have a lot of times later, too. With regard to the use of money by the Advance Party, I would like to say one thing: it is quite clear that the tailor economists in the Advance Party Advisory Group have gone mad at the filth ceiling of the Progress Party. So it's the way to cancel the debt is to use the same wealth that we would otherwise have saved out of the oil revenue. What the Progress Party is doing is going on and on and on, giving all this money, either as 90s or 70s, or 50s in some context. There's money going out. One might say that an investment is being made in the road sector. But I know that it has never been possible to count the tribal route between Bergen and Oslo as an asset that can easily be traded on the ordinary private market, if you later needed the money. We fully agree that it makes sense to invest in the road sector. We fully agree that it makes sense to make different investments in the social sector. We've had enough shame to prioritize this within our ordinary budgets, instead of doing it as a debt cancellation afterwards. To put it very simply: why is it fair that it is precisely in connection with the road projects that were last financed by tolls, it is the drivers that are to be taxed? Why is it fair? Why couldn't this money go out to people in other ways, or have been used for new road projects elsewhere, if you think road projects are so important? Is it the case that the Progress Party, in all its budget proposals from now on and beyond, will fully finance and not provide toll financing at all? If that is the case, I think it is very nice, because then it will come out clearly from Arne Sortevik and the others in the Advancement Party. From the city council in Bergen, I know Arne Sortevik as a decent man who spent the money in a proper way. But now he comes who – in these Christmas seasons it would be fair to say – Christmas events and hand out money to drivers in some places in the country where there is a toll station today. The same applies to the debt paid to some Norwegian hospitals. Is it fair that there are exactly those hospitals that have built up debt, that are going to get the debt to which it is added here? Would it not be reasonable to carry it out as transfers to the hospital sector instead of making debt cancellations now? I am certainly the last recorded speaker, and then I use the opportunity to say that this was a small summary in relation to the opposition's input here. The debate on what is voodoo economy and not voodoo economy, what is voodoo taxlet or not, will certainly continue in the years to come, although it will be exciting to see how long Jan Tore Sanner and the other representatives of the bourgeois parties will say that the increase in the Norwegian economy is due precisely to their tax relief and not to changes, among other things. in the world economy. I find it fascinating that in the very year we have set up the taxes to prioritize the community, we see that the growth in tax revenue is the highest.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1983	The President is very doubtful, but finds it possible to accept the use of the word 'Christmas' as a parliamentary expression today. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1988	In a day like this, I might start by pointing out what we can agree on. It is obvious that we agree that the international economic cycle is important for the economic development of Norway. We obviously also agree – and I think that is interesting – that what tax reliefs are provided is important in relation to the effects on the economy. That, I think, was an interesting contribution from Heikki Holmås to a debate that is certainly not going to be concluded today. Let me then say that I am a little surprised that the Socialist Left attaches so little importance to fiscal policy for the economic development of Norway. When trying to argue against the link between tax relief and more money to the community, reference is made to international economic conditions and monetary policy, while almost depreciating the impact and impact of fiscal policy on economic development in Norway. Here, of course, there is an interaction between fiscal policy, monetary policy and wage policy, in which the international economic cycle takes place. However, our point is that the tax relief that our government provided helped to facilitate new jobs and new businesses, and it has helped to increase growth in the Norwegian economy. Then, of course, you can have a discussion about how important it is, but there's a connection between growth-creating tax relief that increases the supply of work and that contributes to more profitable businesses and growth in the economy, I didn't think it was very much a disagreement about. Finally, I noticed that Lundtigen did some kitchen table analyses of the opposition party's alternative budgets. Let me just add that if you want to assess our alternative budget in relation to the financial situation in 2007, you have to look at the entire budget and how it works. We're going to spend less money from the Pension Fund. But perhaps even more important is the fact that we have a comprehensive programme to increase labour supply, which is the largest bottleneck in the Norwegian economy today, and which will be reinforced to next year. There we have answers in relation to stimulating people to work more, among other things. through moderate tax relief, stimulating people to work longer and stimulating labour immigration. In addition, we have proposals to stimulate private savings, which will actually reduce the growth of private consumption. I actually thought the Center Party agreed. It is one of our proposals to dampen the pressure in the Norwegian economy, as well as to allow greater use of private suppliers in several sectors. It will also help to dampen the pressure on the economy, unlike a policy in which the public sector is almost exclusively to be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e1997	We all thought that there would be a soft landing also in this debate, but the representative Holmås managed to pull up the temperature at the end. It struck me when I saw Heikki Holmås on the speaker's chair, that there is a man here who would like to hold the new year, and we got a little extract – if not by the one who is held on New Year's Eve, then at least the one who is held on New Year's Day. I need to comment on some issues. I have not heard any other representatives who have said anything other than that a substantial part of the increased tax revenue received by Norway comes from short-term transactions, and that it is going well. Many of the good times in Norway are imports of good times from outside, but there are also strangely good times. We saw that, for example. in the previous debate, in which it was said by speakers from parties which form the parliamentary basis of the current government here in the Chamber that there has been record growth in small enterprises, traditional enterprises and non-traditional enterprises, based on our domestic economy in terms of employment. This is an example of nationally-created good times, and it's really great. But it also illustrates that a targeted policy over many years to create a basis for it, the record number of enterprises being established, is the result of this. Of course, the sum of all of this gives rise to increased tax revenue. It has thus been possible at the same time as the tax rates have fallen, not least as a consequence of the tax reform, which the current government, including SV, is participating in and implementing in 2006, although they were opposed when the tax reform was dealt with here in the Chamber, where the whole principle has been lower rates and wider tax bases. The sum of this has given — it has been documented today, and it is possible to say — higher tax revenues for Norway. In any case, it has been possible to make lower tax rates in combination with good cyclical conditions in such a way that it is possible to increase tax revenue at the same time as the tax rates have been reduced. It is as well documented in the new aging that exists, that I cannot understand that it may be possible not to see it. Then you get to believe how the weighting between the different reasons might be. Unfortunately, we never get a complete answer to that. Then the representative Heikki Holmås is raising a whole new debate, namely about pay differentials. To say that in a period when real wage growth is as formidable as it has been in recent years, unfortunately, the stretch in the field becomes larger than it will be in worse times. It's like those who do well and work in high-wage sectors, the ability to take out a large wage increase in such a period, and those who don't do it, or maybe have not had work, abilities not to be involved in it. It's going to be a challenge for everyone. But I think the answer, going into worse times, with increased unemployment and worse times for businesses, is not a good answer. It has to be working on how we can manage to get a good income equalization.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e2010	I just need to provide a brief case information to the representative Heikki Holmås. The fact that the scheme on our proposal with regard to regional health enterprises is as it shows in the proposal is because all regional enterprises are indebted to the State. It is those who have accumulated deficits, who would come in the situation that Heikki Holmås took in his example. The proposal is designed to ensure that all regional enterprises will benefit from this, so that even those who have done their living properly do not get into disrepute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e2015	I asked for the word for a brief remark to the representative of Nesvik's previous post. I do not believe, in any case, that the Progress Party's proposal for a partial debt reduction for health companies is an adequate response to the problems facing the Norwegian health economy. So I don't think under any circumstances it would have been relevant to vote for such a proposal. But I noticed that the representative Nesvik made a premise that provided that the performance requirement of Stortinget on the basis of which the health businesses operate in the current year will not be met. That's why I think it's necessary to show that per. Today — the last day of the Grand Duchy’s meeting this year — no notice has been received from the State Council responsible or from the Government that the assumptions made by the Grand Duchy will not be met. Therefore, in my opinion, it would be unreasonable if Stortingen were to make a different premise on how to deal with the healthcare companies' economy. When the government has not reported that it is necessary to deviate or do anything other than what the Storting has provided, I expect that it means that the Storting's assumptions will be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e2024	: No more people have asked for the floor. 17. [[Footing, see page 1651]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e2037	We then go to voting in case No. 1-17, minus case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e2116	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e2747	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Bjørg Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 15 December 2006: ‘The Government is asking the Government to introduce a ban on advertising in relation to films for children aged 7 and down.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e2766	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Bjørg Tørresdal, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 15 December 2006: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Media Authority has the authority to intervene and to prohibit the viewing of films that are contrary to Section 13a of the Film and Videogram Act or to Section 204 of the Criminal Code and Section 382 of the Criminal Code.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e2785	During the debate, Trine Skei Grande has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e4336	During the debate, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘II Tax Decision of the Trustee for 2006, Chapter VIII VAT for the 2006 budget, is amended as follows: New Section 3 is replaced by the following: From 1 November 2006, 12,5 pst is payable. a charge in accordance with the provisions of the Law of 19 June 1969 No. 66 on VAT for:c) electricity.Current § 3 becomes new § 4.Current § 4 becomes new § 5.III The tax ruling of the Stortinget for 2006 on the consumption tax on electricity is amended as follows:§ 1 first paragraph, the second sentence is replaced by the following:From 1 November 2006, no tax shall be paid to the Treasury per. kWh on electricity supplied here in the country.» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e4382	During the debate, Lars Sponheim has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the promotion of a wholesale notification, by the end of spring 2007, at the latest, with an overall strategy to ensure better framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises. This strategy must ensure that Norwegian small and medium-sized enterprises have at least as good framework conditions as comparable enterprises in countries with which it is natural to compare, and should include, inter alia, the following: taxation, simplification, research and development; [[PDO]] This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e4408	During the debate, Mrs Leirstein put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e4544	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e4551	Then there should be 23 votes in favour of the proposals and 83 votes against. The Committee had set up:
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-19.ana.ud2087e6360	Before the meeting is cancelled, the President is asking for the floor to wish everyone a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year and thank you for your cooperation this year. The President has a wish for Christmas, namely that it will be snow. But I take into account that society is weak, and that human inclinations are quite different and sometimes strange, so there may be other wants out and going! But I hope they are of such a nature that we can meet healthy, obvious and rest over the New Year and resume the work in Stortinget. Merry Christmas and good new year to all, and good journey home, especially for those who will go far!
