ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e82	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Sonja Mandt-Bartholsen from 13 December until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Tom Stroemstad Olsen, is invited to meet during the period of leave.3. Tom Stroemstad Olsen is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Sonja Mandt-Bartholsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e103	Tom Stroemstad Olsen is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 16 – and everyone knows the reason for it – until today’s maps have been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e121	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate on the budgetary position be divided into two parts, first dealing with the framework area 2, Family and Consumer, and then the framework area 3, Culture. At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that each of the debates be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 20 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Centre Party 5 minutes and the Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government – within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e132	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Budgetary Cooperation for its constructive and good cooperation. It's a great pleasure to be able to rent this great and committed committee. I expect that the different parties will come up with their views in their main posts, and will therefore take advantage of the time to talk the most about the Christian People's Party's contributions to the state budget. The government has used Advent time in years to finance other things to stimulate multiple kindergartens to have longer opening hours. The government has sent a clear message via the media to the nursery to extend the opening time to fix the time frame. But what about the educational provision and quality of kindergarten, both for the children and for the children? In addition to being a care provider, the nursery should also be a pedagogical service. Quality is closely related to pedagogical manning. Today's kindergartens are missing about 10 pst. qualified pre-school teachers in the positions of supervisor and pedagogical leader. For the first time in several years available statistics show that there is an increase in the number of exemptions from the requirement of pre-school teacher training for the positions of supervisor and pedagogical leader. The biggest increase is in Oslo and Akershus. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to have a lack of childcare facilities, both in ownership, pedagogical and valuable profile, and in access to shorter uptime. Therefore, we will continue to step up towards the equivalent management of private and municipal kindergartens. We want to make sure that the quality of kindergartens is not forgotten in order to achieve the goal of full childcare. To this end, we will provide additional resources for the development of competences in kindergartens and propose immediate action to provide enough preschool teachers and a detailed report on the quality of kindergartens. We know that when the family is poor, it is the children who have the most difficulty. Good schools and low-price kindergartens are important, long-term instruments in the fight against poverty for children as a group. International comparisons show that public welfare policy is very important for the demarcation of poverty. If we're going to trap the weakest kids, we're going to have to use all the tools. The nursery is, in some cases, the only safe place your child can hold in everyday life. If children of drug addicts and mentally ill or children from disadvantaged families do not go into kindergarten because of poor finances, it is one of the most important things we should give priority to. That's why Christian People's Party has 25 million dollars. kr to income-rated parental payment in the Christian People's Party's alternative budget. In the Christian People's Party's alternative budget, the paper is expanded by one week, by extending the total period of leave. And we'll give all fathers the right to cardboard regardless of the professional participation of mother before birth. At the same time, it should not be necessary to remove the dream of creating a job for yourself and others because one does not have safe social arrangements. The Christian People's Party therefore proposes that all self-employed persons should have the same right to parental leave, sickness benefit and care allowance as other parents do. Parenting is a lifelong project, and parents have a major impact on children’s lives and development. The government cut last year's fall in the last month's parents received cash support. In addition, they cut the cash benefit by NOK 4 248 per person. years. The cut has not been fixed in the budget for this year. The Christian People’s Party will give both time and money to young children’s parents. In addition, we're going to increase the one-time benefit by birth radically: from NOK 33 584 to NOK 65 722. Proposals for joint action by voluntary organisations were withdrawn from the new year’s government budget proposal. I am very pleased that the government party has turned around and now major Christian People's Party's proposal to allow 6.1 million. kr to this scheme. Many voluntary organisations, trust societies and others offer popular life courses. In addition, Modum Bad participate monthly in the quality assurance and development of the life course. It is positive that the Government follows up and makes the life course “Good Life!” to all first-time parents nearly nationwide, a work that the Christian People’s Party started up. Child protection is a member and resource of the family when he cannot solve the care tasks himself. The Christian People's Party proposes in its alternative budget to grant 50 million. kr more for child protection. In addition, we want to strengthen child-restraint protection by 10 million. kr. The Norwegian Foster Home Association is one of those who have pointed out that enforcement practices are too bad in many municipalities, and many feel that the work they have done before the child is 18 years old can be ruined. That is why it is important to strengthen this. Finally, I would like to take up the suggestions in the vote that the Christian People's Party has put forward, or is a co-sponsor, under Framework 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e155	The representative of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad has taken up the suggestions to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e160	The Christian People's Party is the cash support party over something. In its alternative budget, the Christian People's Party has chosen to prioritise just cash support. But I assume that the representative Molvær Grimstad noticed a study that came earlier this year, which showed that foreign-language families are very frequent users of cash support, not unlikely because this scheme becomes an economic incentive that many families understandably would not say no. Most people believe that it is very important that these children are together with Norwegian-speaking children, and that place in kindergarten will therefore be very important for this particular group. Today, grants are granted to provide language training in kindergartens. But has the Christian People's Party considered whether it is possible to do something about the very devices of the cash shock, so that those most in need of a nursery place, do they actually deserve to report that need?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e165	The Christian People's Party is very concerned that children should be able to Norwegian. That is why we have been on a proposal in Stortinget that all those who do not manage Norwegian well enough when they are at the health centre for four years should be offered, in order to be sure that they will be able to Norwegian properly. When there is cash support, it is for one- and two-year-olds, and the Christian People's Party does not want to exclude anyone from benefiting from the cash support scheme. One knows that it often means most to the one who has the least. If there are immigrant families who want to benefit from cash support, it is important that they get the freedom of choice in line with everyone else. Here it is possible to have two thoughts in our head at once: that we facilitate freedom of choice, while at the same time being concerned about integration and Norwegian knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e172	In the past, the Christian People's Party has co-operated with the Advance Party to promote the heterophilic marriage as the safest and most stable framework for family life. We've seen in recent years that the Christian People's Party is dealing with more and more of the special measures that are in the gay and lesbian budget, and are in favour of large appropriations in this area. At the same time, we are going to deal later today with an early step-child adoption case, which essentially concerns the right of homosexuals to adopt. My question to the representative is whether the Christian People's Party has now joined forces with the Workers' Party and SV and opens up full rights to homosexuals, as has traditionally been the case with those heterophiles.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e179	The Christian People's Party is aware that many of those who are gay and lesbian in Norway have experienced a difficult and demanding situation – not everyone has. We are occupied with human dignity and showing respect for everyone. We see in some life-cycle studies that this group has had challenges. That's why we're busy with information, knowledge and orientation. But the Christian People's Party has emphasized marriage as a form of life, and has not intended to enter into e.g. full adoption rights, for which the representative Mr Knudsen asks questions. When it comes to the issues we're going to deal with later today, it's not about the adoption of a star child. It is about children growing up with adults who have entered into partnerships being given the same right to spend time with them. The Christian People's Party is concerned that we should take care of our children and give them the best possible upbringing without regard to how adults decorate their lives. Therefore, it is important that everyone get a good time with them growing up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e186	The representative from the Christian People's Party was involved in language testing of four-year-olds in response to the study that has now come, which is very serious, and which shows that children with a minority background and a migrant background are less likely to use kindergarten because of cash support, because these families can't afford to say no to cash support or to pay child care. I think it's very defensive of the representative to say that we're going to speak four-year-olds. The main basis for language is laid before the age of four. The government was criticized for being defensive in these questions. But we believe that it is actually kindergarten that is the best measure for language development. It shows all the research and the short-term trial with free core time. I wonder specifically what the Christian People's Party will do with this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e191	I fully agree with the representative that kindergarten is a very good offer when it comes to language development. That is why the Christian People's Party in government was also involved in projects with free core time in some parts of Oslo where minorities were a large part. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the price of a nursery place should not prevent people with very low incomes from using the nursery, and therefore we have added 25 million. kr in our alternative budget in order to be able to make additional contributions to those with the lowest income. I see that there is a free nursery, many will benefit from it, and I believe that we can develop even better towards those who have a linguistic need for it. But can't one deter the minority group from being allowed to be home? I believe that the representative, Hansen, will not forbid parents to be home with their children for the first two years if that's what they want. But here I think we can take care of both.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e196	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e200	There are many who have good reason to feel like winners after the year's budgetary procedure. Some of those who really are are children and young children's parents. For the first time, we're now in the position to achieve the goal that anyone who wants to do it will be accommodated in kindergarten. We'll bet 3.2 billion extra next year, over 18 billion dollars total over the budget. There is a historical commitment to children, to young children's parents and to equality in this country. Good kindergarten places for everyone, with a low price, but with a high quality, are just all of this. Kindergartens are a great tool to give all children equal opportunities. For children with a minority language background, learning the Norwegian language is a common place; it is an important place to help those who, for various reasons, need help, and the families who may need help from child protection can be seen and get help early. Kindergarten is a children's learning and experience venue. We need to make sure that it is for everyone – independent of parents’ finances, regardless of social or cultural background. This budget is a good and far-reaching step on the way to getting the children who are in line today to get started in kindergarten. Others from the Workers' Party will take gender issues and other themes more closely. So let me just get into the focus of the Government and the Council of State in relation to men and equality. The budget shows a new give-up for gender equality, and it shows that the Council of State is very aware and aware that the work of a more equal society depends on men’s both beggars and be allowed to contribute more. Therefore, it is very good that the Government will give this theme extra attention, and it is good that the budget facilitates it. Twenty million. kr more for gender equality work next year is a strong growth compared to what we have seen many years ago. The challenges of child protection are great and many. There are more and more children who need and get help from child protection. It could be both positive and negative. Of course, if more and more children are enjoying it, it is negative and serious, but if it is so that more and more of the children who were previously undiscovered and seen, who are now receiving help, it is important and good. One hundred million. In addition to the protection of children by the State is an important and correct commitment, and in addition, empowerment measures in municipal child protection will amount to 12 million. kr more for next year. We're occupied with more knowledge, more research. It gives better insight and ability to make the right choice. Over several years, we have seen that child protection has had a difficult economy. It is safe to know that the Government takes action and control. A proper review of all aspects of child protection is important, so that we always know that we use the money in the best possible way, to help the children who need help. The working party is concerned that state child protection should make the best possible use of the capacity of own institutions, while we know that foundations and non-profit organisations also do an important job in child protection. But we want to live to the great commercial actors, those who make a lot of money out of running child protection institutions. It's the government and government party that the child protection is not something we're going to run business with. It's not because it's a brilliant business concept that we have child protection. So our answer to the child protection challenges is an economic boost of over 100 million. kr and a thorough review, so that we get good control and control of both the economy and the supply that is given. I record that the Progress Party's response to these challenges is dramatic cut. In the extension of this, we are also doing another important act, namely transferring responsibility for the care of the single minor asylum seekers to the protection of children. We start next year with those who are under 15 years of age. This is also a concrete follow-up to the Soria Moria Declaration and is important for an outsourced group, which is often the case for single minor asylum seekers. That'll cost us $25 million. kr. But the concern of these children means that the economic concerns should not be what caused us the greatest headache. The next year's budget will give more attention to and will be used to address the children who need help. This gives you a new deal in equality work. We're about to reach a 30-year-old goal that anyone who wants to do that will have a place in the nursery. All of this is a good example of our being on the right track, and our raising is being fulfilled. But most importantly, these are important bets for the children, for the grown-ups, for all those in our country that this concerns. They are given the help, support and opportunity to live a good life and to develop, whether they are young or old, through the strong pressure and commitment of kindergartens and in the field of child and gender equality that this budget entails.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e230	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e233	The representative of the Labour Party spoke a lot about the families of children who win the budget that is being discussed today. It's a truth with modifications. Child social security is a proper system for families with children. Many families with children choose to let child-restraint go directly to the child and what the child needs. Nevertheless, in the years I have been on the family committee, I think the Workers' Party has had a very defensive relationship with child welfare. There has been no support for the price and cost adjustment of child benefit, which means that you really wanted it to go down. We are aware that the aim of the Workers' Party is to cut and remove the cash support. Is it true that you also have a long-term goal of removing child welfare?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e238	The answer to the question is no. We don't have a long-term goal of removing child welfare. The amount of child benefit today is NOK 11 640 per year. a child. We'll continue that for next year. It is also true that child welfare has not been adjusted in ten years. So this year's sum, we're going to go on for next year as well. Then there's a relationship that a person just has to take over, and that's that Bondevik Regiment removes the infant supplement in the child's back in the period they put. We're adapting cash support to child benefit in that budget for this year. Then we make an important change in child welfare for next year, and that's that we introduce a Svalbard supplement, so that the families who live on Svalbard and who have the right to child welfare get an addition to the corresponding Finnmark supplement. So the child's back is passed on, and so we have an extra bet with family on Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e247	We know of the Workers' Party and SV's long-standing fight against the cash support. On almost every occasion, the cash support of these parties' representatives is being attacked, and there was no lack of a high profile on this issue in the election campaign. The last time in the row change earlier today was also the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen here with a critical angle on the cash support. The Soria Moria Declaration states that cash support will be applied once full child care coverage has been achieved. We should know what that really means. What does conversion mean? We're assuming that that means a dramatic slowdown. Does this mean that the cash support will be removed, or does it mean that you will continue the cash support even when full child care coverage is a fact, hopefully not for too long?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e254	I think it is well known to everyone in this room and hopefully to everyone outside this room that the Workers' Party is against cash support. The party has always been. We think it's a system that's not particularly accurate and not a very good tool in relation to the family policy, gender policy and child policy objectives we have. We've been saying that all along, and we still stand for that. In the budget for next year, we will make no change to the budget for this year. It is right, as the representative says, that the Soria Moria Declaration states that we should maintain a limited cash support scheme for 1- and 2-year-olds, and that conversion should take place at the earliest time when we have full child care coverage – early in 2008. What kind of conversion it will be, then, must be answered when we get there that we have achieved full child-care coverage. We hope that happens quickly, but until further notice, we keep the scheme that is today for 1- and 2-year-olds.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e261	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e264	The party of progress is of the opinion that the family is one of the most important pillars of today's society. It is the view of the Progress Party that an active and proper family policy will bring significant societal benefits both in the short and long term. The family policy of the Progress Party has the following main elements: freedom of choice in matters of care — therefore, we are in favour of a commitment to cash support, child welfare and the child care provider fair arrangements for association and contributions that take account of both parents, and not least to child equality without quota or special advantages due to sex, skin colour or sexual orientation enhanced consumer protection In the opinion of the Progress Party, it is very important to give the family a significant opportunity for freedom of choice and the right to have their own family situation. The party of progress will strongly warn against those who try to weaken the role of parents in relation to the child. We remember SV's statements that all children are going to kindergarten. The public can never fully replace the parents when it comes to creating safe frameworks and belongings for a child. The Progress Party believes that kindergartens and parental training are tools that parents should use in their daily work of care and education, and not least in teaching the child respect for the property of others and others. We see too many children growing up who haven't had basic basic basic knowledge of right and wrong, what's my and yours. A growing number of couples experience a breakdown in their lives. This is a development that affects not only Norway but large parts of the Western world. We think it's naive to believe that public life courses can reverse this trend. But once a life goes wrong, we have to facilitate a fair distribution of companionship and financial burden. The general rule must be that the child should be in contact with both his/her parents. After more than five years in the Storting Family Committee, I have seen many ghastly examples of children being used as weapons in a conflict between parents. This is sad, but also in some cases a result of the system we have. Here's the big challenge to deal with for our sitting family minister. As I said at the outset, the Advance Party wants to give parents freedom of choice through cash support and by adjusting the price and cost of the child's pension. In this context, the Progress Party will demonstrate that the cash support has shown that it has been very successful and has produced positive results for the families that have benefited from the arrangement. The Progress Party will distance itself from the trend the Government seems to be putting on, by wanting to reduce the payments of cash support. This affects parents who want an opportunity to be with their children in the first period of their children's lives, which is so important. When there is no charge for child benefit and cash support, the Government also deprives parents with little income of an option. In reality, this means that the government prioritises middle or high income parents, i.e. that real freedom of choice is only for the rich. Freedom of choice is important for the Progress Party. It involves investing in cash support and child benefit, but it also means that everyone who wants it is to be offered child care. We are firmly committed to the compromise adopted by the Stortinget, which would give equal treatment to public and private kindergartens, increased development and lower parental pay. Sometimes we feel that we are a little alone in this field. The government neither holds the promise to follow up the maximum price nor to introduce real non-discrimination between public and private, and in many places there is considerable uncertainty and significant deficit in kindergartens. With real non-discrimination, all kindergartens will have the motivation to limit their costs, while focusing on the quality of their services. Our desire for freedom of choice also includes maternity leave. We believe that it should be up to the individual couple how they will distribute the maternity leave between themselves. Alternatively, the Progress Party considers that both parents should have an equal reserved allowance of the permit. The party recognises that for some children the situation may be so difficult that it is necessary to remove them from home. We also recognise the need for child protection. My colleague, Karin S. Woldseth, will take a closer look at our child protection policy in his speech. For us in the Progress Party, consumer consideration is central. Consumers shall have the opportunity to reach out with their complaints. The protection of consumers' rights is an essential part of a well-functioning market. Consumer authorities have done a solid job for a number of years, but are increasingly facing more difficult tasks, including: as a result of developments in network trade and cross-border trade. The Party therefore considers that a strengthening of this area should be considered. However, we believe that the most effective use of resources should also be sought in this area. Coordination or aggregation of all the consumer policy areas should be assessed in our view. The Progress Party believes that today's gender equality policy is fundamentally wrong and in some cases will prevent real equality. In principle, the Advancement Party believes that it is a matter of course that you get equal pay for equal work. Nevertheless, the Progress Party will refrain from awarding posts by gender. It should be a matter of course that posts are allocated according to competence. The Progress Party provided its subsidiary support for the reorganisation of State activities in the field of equality and anti-discrimination. We did this not primarily to strengthen the work, but to streamline the business administratively and eventually to reduce or eliminate it. So this is our view of the appropriations for this purpose to be phased out. We do not consider it reasonable that anyone should be entitled to special measures and, in particular, to the protection of law and/or order only on the basis of sex, race or sexual preferences. So the Progress Party is taking away from public spending on caring for the rights of healthy, adults, intelligent and, in many cases, well-trained people. We have full confidence in man's own ability to do this, the confidence that women and men know their needs and rights, and the confidence that they themselves can care for them through the general law that applies to everyone in this country. Any other way of thinking, we think, is a violation of the individual's integrity and ability to make his own decisions. However, the Progress Party would point out that although gender equality research, gender equality centres, gender equality centres, ethnic discrimination centres – SMED – etc., the rights of individuals will continue to be maintained by the legislation of the Equality Act, the Employment Environment Act and agreements concluded between the employees’ and employers’ organisations. In addition, a number of non-governmental organisations, ideological organisations and political parties have equality as their central trademark and work in this field. The fact that there are significant forces in the Norwegian society that want to continue yesterday’s gender equality policy is not least confirmed by the fact that many still have a firm belief in gender quotas. The Progress Party believes that an individual who has been given a job or position because of his gender and not because of his qualifications is downgraded by both society and himself. With that, I would like to address the proposals of the Progress Party and the proposals on which we are working with others under Framework Section 2. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the proposals No. 15, 16, 17 and 18 ‘transferable’ keyword shall be directed to ‘overall allocation’ under Chapter. 315, heading 70. These proposals should also have been mentioned on page 83 of the vote. As far as I know, the Secretary of the Storting should also be familiar with this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e336	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the suggestions he made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e341	You don't think so until you hear it. The Party considers that it is not reasonable that any person should be required to have special measures or in particular the protection of laws or laws based on sex, race or sexual preferences. The Progress Party shall refrain from using public resources to safeguard the rights of healthy, adults, intelligent people. Does this mean that the Progress Party denies discrimination against women, homosexuals and dark-skinned immigrants in Norway? Does the Progress Party deny that many are excluded from the labour market, have lower wages and are underrepresented in policy and leadership positions? And is it that the Progress Party at all won't do anything about these relationships?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e348	Since I'm married to a nurse, I know a lot about the pay gap between men and women. This has much more to do with the wage policy that big business and, in particular, government is pursuing. Hildeng represents a government party, which can actually do something about the wage policy pursued, for example. Women’s prisons in Norway. I myself come from a woman's office, which is a public case-worker in the state, who has also had to deal with low wages. So I'm completely familiar with it. I have no faith that through laws and quotas we can fix this. This is about the fairness of wage policy, and that those who sit and rule in the municipalities, in the government and in the states, are actually dry and able to do something about the pay gap between women and men.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e354	The entire committee, including the Progress Party, is concerned about the development of child protection. More and more children need action. Nevertheless, Kjørnskrittspartet 480 million. kr in child protection. You cut 150 million. In private institutional places, such as the Progress Party, the legal prices in the decision-making process, this is justified by the need for early action, so that there is no need for institutional space. That is what everyone agrees on, but it is the municipalities that are involved in the prevention of child protection. There's no way to influence it, so these kids are there next year. Furthermore, the Progress Party in the allocation of minor asylum seekers and minor refugees who have been granted residence in Norway, because their policies will lead to fewer of these coming to Norway. But the Progress Party has not led any immigration policy in this bigotry and this country, so these children are there. What will the Progress Party do with the children who need action in the field of child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e363	To take the last one first, it is that if the alternative state budget of the Progress Party had been adopted, it had to be seen in a context. It would send a significant signal to those who want to come to Norway through immigration, and immigration would fall sharply. We know that the Progress Party has a policy that is very similar to that in Denmark, where there has been a significant reduction in immigration. Therefore, it is also reasonable that individual items take this into account. With regard to the cuts proposed by the Progress Party in the field of child protection, we believe that there is a significant potential for efficiency in the administrative sector in this area. But, as I also said in my post, in a later article today, Karin S. Woldseth will elaborate our policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e370	The Progress Party will both eliminate gender equality and discrimination and liquidate the grievances and cuts of budget money for gender equality purposes. Does the Progress Party really believe that equality has come where it is today, by itself, without an offensive and concrete policy in this area? One sees that the equality struggle is not won once and for all. There is something you have to work on continuously. When it comes to the family, the Progress Party does not want to weaken the role of the family. That's great. When the representative says in his post that it is naive to believe that a course of life has no effect on divorce statistics, the Progress Party does not have to believe, but they can listen to all the signals that have come from couples who have felt it to be positive to go to a life course, as a good measure to prevent a break in life. It is quite unlikely that the Progress Party will not be on that lift.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e377	I do not doubt that many people feel that a course in life is nice, pleasant and upbuilding for the relationship. At the same time, I think those who join a life course are couples who have good communication and are aware of the challenges of having a life together, and it's not the couples who are most threatened and at risk of divorce. In the case of equality, it's impossible to answer it in the remaining seconds. I just want to point out that in the 1970s and 1980s there has been a lot of good progress in the field of equality. The problem is that it is the same policy that is still being pursued, although we are now in a situation where women are dominant among others. universities and higher education institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e384	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e387	Family policy is a demanding field. To shape a policy that affects as close a relationship as a family relationship, we shall meet that task of a variety of humility. Here there are no truths and no final solutions. The family, our closest one, this a little strange circle of people who are either bound together through the bonds of blood or have found each other more or less randomly and formed family through cohabitation, partnership or marriage, are the ones we know best, but nevertheless let us be surprised. They are the ones we most need support from, but with which it is most difficult to talk about the problems. It's the ones we can feel the worst overrun, but we still loyally stand for. These are the ones we want to share our innermost with, our love and our feelings – a demanding, but also beautiful landscape. For the right, the family is the most important framework for the growth of children. It is where they can best experience the connection, proximity and care that gives the necessary platform further life. Parents shall have the primary responsibility for the education of children and give them what they need. As the family is the child’s most important point of affiliation, the family also becomes the most important framework for the survival of the family, where family members of all ages have a role to play. Right will invest in the family as a basic institution. The starting point for the Right’s general policy is also to ensure families through a healthy economy, a low level of interest rates and a high level of employment. As a starting point, our family policy is to give families time, space, economy and freedom of choice to shape their own lives and develop family ties, help those families that don't work, and not least help the individual where needed. In this budget, we want to strengthen the freedom of choice of families in several ways. A recurring concern in this context is the government’s recurring skepticism for private solutions and suppliers, whether in kindergarten, child protection or in other areas. We heard that at the latest in the posts of the representative Johnsen earlier today. Freedom of choice requires a diversity of both public and private solutions. Facilitating private alternatives initiated by individuals, businesses or non-governmental organisations provides development and innovation within the disciplines. There must be room for different approaches to the tasks to be addressed. We must not underestimate the forces and initiatives of individuals and private institutions. The right considers full child-care coverage to be important. Freedom of choice for families is about making kindergarten available to anyone who wants it. Strong growth in the development of private kindergartens is a prerequisite for achieving the objective of full childcare coverage. Increased non-discrimination between public and private actors is required. Therefore, the right proposes a coverage of 90 pst, against the current 85 pst, as well as an increase in the discretionary funds. Right-wing thinks it's important to respect that someone doesn't want kindergarten for the very least. Therefore, an increase of the cash support of 5 pst is proposed. It is also worth pointing out in this context the need for research into forms of care in early childhood, which we want to strengthen. With the strong expansion of kindergartens that we now see, the Right is concerned with the quality. We have great challenges in terms of providing qualified people. Right-wing wants a strategy. We want to see how to get to the strong recruitment that needs to be done. We also want to strengthen research and enhance the skills of those working in kindergartens, not least in relation to language training, care and training for people with disabilities. The children’s rat appears to sink also in Norway. The failure of population growth can cause significant problems when an increasing proportion of older people triggers high needs for care and pension obligations. Therefore, the right considers it important to stimulate large families. We want, as part of a gradual escalation, to build up child welfare, and therefore propose an increase of NOK 1000 per year for families with four children or more – perhaps not that much, but there is a signal to strengthen this group in the long term. For the Right, the issue of equal rights in pregnancy and childbirth for self-employed women is also very important. And we have, as many will know, also promoted a separate document No. Eight proposals on that. We have this in our budget. This is an important issue from an equal opportunities perspective, but it is also an important issue in relation to the freedom of choice of families and the real opportunities to set up themselves. Not least in rural areas, women’s employment opportunities are precisely linked to their own activities. The gender perspective is also fundamental when the Right proposes to extend the feather quota by one week. As I said, the family is a difficult arena. It's when frustrations, drug abuse and social and mental problems get mixed up with the feelings and ties that characterize kinship, that we get the worst kind of physical violence and mental terror. On the right, the increases in this area are supported, among others. the extra appropriations we in Stortinget have received for a life course. We also give our condolences to the Council of States, and I want to take the opportunity to compliment her on showing genuine commitment in these areas. The right also provides budgetary signals in the form of proposals for further strengthening of research in the field and of incest centres and crisis centres. Children are individuals who are required to be seen – not only in a family context, but also according to their very own needs. The right places great emphasis on the fact that all children through a good language and later reading and writing skills should be well rusted later in life. We have through our own Document No. Eight proposals took this up, and we're going to repeat it here as well. Young-age language mapping, with the result of which different measures for those who need it, must be a priority task. On the right, there is a lack of a government strategy in this area. The right is also concerned with the specific challenges of children and young people in the larger urban communities. It is important to facilitate opportunities for participation in leisure activities so that urban centres do not become a place of refuge for homeless young people. We are therefore proposing to strengthen the allocation for these purposes as well. The right is committed to combating discrimination of any kind. Earlier in this Chamber, we have raised the question of the need for general rules on discrimination legislation, and we understand that the Government is working on making proposals on it. We're looking forward to that happening. We believe that there is a continuing need to ask for this matter. We often get enquiries about this, and we often see examples of this in the daily press. I believe that a general basis for the issue of discrimination will strengthen the debates that are followed by this. The right is also concerned with consumer rights. In this context, we will express concern about something that we see as a little lack of understanding from the Government as to how competition works. We think there is a need to see a stronger link between competition law and the area of competition and the more general consumer work in the Ministry of the Council of State. It's a weakness that this is seen in two different contexts. We hope that the Government will take steps to strengthen links between departments in this respect, but also to ensure that this is better connected in current cases. In the debate that has been going on to date, there is a problem that has arisen. In its fight against cash support, I find that the government parties are constantly coming back to the question of the use of cash support by immigrants in relation to the children's need to go to kindergarten. I think you should think a little bit about. What do you really say about immigrant people? What is the human vision that you actually show, when you constantly realize that immigrants are unable to decide what is best for their own children? There's a perspective of human vision in this that I don't want to attach immediately to the positions, but as I think one should think through, because it's actually about respect for individuals, including those with different skin color than ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e423	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e426	We heard from the representative of Thommes about various measures that Right wants to support. But on the basis of the right's proposals and wishes, this budget should preferably have our cut of 336 million. kr. It has to be understood that from the Right's point of view, it's 336 million. NOK too much money within this budget frame. And then we see that the right-hand option is to increase the parental payment in kindergartens by several hundred copies each month, so that the operating profit can be cut by 700 million. kr. We see that the lot also has great interest in cash support, which is to be increased by almost 100 million. kr. So then it's clear that Right will cut in the kindergarten bet. But it would be interesting to know what other measures and instruments Right think one is forced to spend too much money on in this setting, and as they ideally think should be cut down – whether it's equality work, whether it's gay policy, whether it's child protection, or whether there's other bets that are now being strengthened, but as Right-wing feel should be cut by 336 million. kr, as they have proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e431	The representative Johnsen would have noticed that on several occasions, the right has used the maximum price for kindergarten as the starting point for collecting money in other contexts. We will see from the budget proposals we have that they are, in fact, very well used too, in the broad picture. First of all, when we think this is right, it's because we don't dramatically increase the nursery price in any way. We are also significantly lower than the average when the maximum price was introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e438	Children and young people’s growing-up conditions are important. In addition to the representative Thommess mentions the family, we know that a good school offer and a good leisure offer can be with and give a meaningful everyday life and a richer upbringing for children and young people. During the Bondevik II government, the representative Thommessen and Right were involved in the economic strangulation of the municipalities, and it actually led to the closure of very many youth clubs, resulting in the loss of important leisure opportunities for children and young people. I assume that the representative Thommes shares the commitment to give young people a meaningful growth. And then it's exciting to right what action it's right and the representative Thommessen wants to bet on, which is easy to combine with the fact that there's still a need for community economics and weighty support for child and youth work in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e443	Now it's actually like there's a little bit of a difference between how the municipalities handle this. The representative Sande may be familiar with the fact that many right-wing municipalities actually have a higher use of funds for cultural activities, and in the municipality it means much more money for children and young people than what we see in some red and maybe also red-green municipalities. The most important thing here is to give municipalities the freedom to prioritize and to set up their economies so that the desired measures can actually be taken. There are big differences between municipalities here. There is a great difference between small municipalities in maybe a few thousand inhabitants and difficult cities, like Oslo, which we are today. But we see that if the municipalities have arms and have room to prioritise, we know that local municipal government representatives want to raise this particular field. And so much trust actually has the Right to Local Democracy and to our local politicians that we see that this will work out well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e449	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The President expects the representative Thommes to make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e454	The President is absolutely right about that. I address the Right proposal and the proposals that the Right has with the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e459	Then the representative, Olemic Thommessen, addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e462	I want to start with one of the government's main initiatives in 2007, kindergartens. The kindergarten is once again a budget winner. We now see that in the fight for kindergarten for everyone, a fight that we've fought for nearly 30 years, the goal is just around the corner – it's soon a reality. We are very proud of the kindergarten reform in SV, and we are also proud of our Council of State, which is the father of the reform. It has even been written by the Progress Party in its position – so they do have a mother of the reform. Full babysitting is now to be carried out at low price and high quality, and children are to be given the right to a children's home when we have full coverage. Kindergartens are a good educational offer, a good care provision for children, and it provides young children’s parents with equal opportunities for care and professional participation. For children with a minority background, kindergarten is an important arena for integration and language development. It is therefore good that the trial of free short-term offers to all four- and five-year-olds in the City of Stovner in Oslo, launched in 2006, is continued in 2007 and that the scheme is extended. The main objective of this government is to facilitate good growth and living conditions for children and young people. One of the prerequisites is a good and comprehensive child and youth policy, and it depends on a stronger local economy. In the 2007 government budget, there is an increase in the appropriations for the local government sector of just under 18 billion kroner. This gives municipalities the opportunity to develop a better child and youth policy – and not least meet the major challenges we face in municipal child protection. In order to achieve a comprehensive policy for children and young people, cross-disciplinary and cross-disciplinary cooperation in municipalities and at ministerial level is necessary. It is necessary to facilitate the participation and influence of children and young people. It will be positive for social development. Children and young people shall be heard. Gender equality between girls and boys must be taken into account in gender equality. The Government proposes to increase the resources of a number of measures in the field of gender equality. The increase from 2006 to 2007 is 20 million. kr. Voluntary organisations are also key actors in facilitating good growth for children and young people. SV is concerned about the development of child protection. There is a worrying growth in the number of children in need of child protection measures, and it is worrying that the number of follow-up referrals is so different. Eastfold and Oslo are the municipalities that resolve most cases, almost 30 pst. It is claimed by various child-restraint workers that it is the economy that governs the measures, not the needs and rights of the child. This is very serious and must be followed up. The government is aiming to increase the knowledge and competence of municipal child protection by granting 12 million. kr for the establishment of a competence programme. The entire Committee is concerned about the economic situation in Bufetat. It is important that we now have a review of the department – and not least a review of the governance dialogue between the department and the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government parties warn that we will transfer responsibility for the care of lone minor asylum seekers from the foreign agencies to the child protection. Norway has been criticised by the UN for discriminating against these children, and SV is very pleased that the government is now starting this transition, by making minor asylum seekers under 15 years of age the responsibility of child protection as of 1 October 2007. I want to stress that this is a beginning. It will be important to put in place as soon as possible those aged 15–18 years. For this government, combating child poverty is important. Increased efforts for children and families living in poverty are strengthened by an increase of 10 million. kr to the grant scheme. Appropriations for child and youth action in larger urban communities in 2007 will be more than 50 million. SEK, of which 31,5 million. kr is earmarked for the fight against poverty. It is important that we put in place a comprehensive policy in the area of child protection in relation to children and young people who are struggling. And I have to say – after hearing the replication with the Advance Party – that I look forward to hearing the Advance Party defend why they cut 480 million. kr in the appropriations for the protection of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e492	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e495	As I said in my introduction, the Progress Party is firmly committed to the compromise adopted by the Stortinget, which meant equal treatment of public and private kindergartens, increased expansion and lower parental pay. Sometimes we feel a little alone by standing on that compromise. The government does not keep the promises – neither to follow up the maximum price, nor to introduce real non-discrimination between public and private. In many places, there is considerable uncertainty and significant deficit in kindergartens. According to the Landsförbund of Private Barnehager, many people consider closure. My question to the SV representative is whether she is comfortable with the clear breach of the promises you have made regarding the maximum price – which has been increased – and the introduction of real non-discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e504	This government does not break the promises for the kindergarten sector. This year, SEK 3.2 billion will be allocated to an increased bet on kindergartens. It is quite right, as the representative says, that some municipalities have not treated the private kindergartens well enough. That's what the committee says in its setting. It also says that it is a municipal obligation to provide the private kindergartens with equivalent treatment, and that it is necessary to assess the municipalities that do not. The maximum price is not a static number. The representative knows that well. This reform we were together about, and it is a cost- and price-adjusted maximum price that exists in the suspension and in the budget of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e513	SV and Left have been together for many decades on equality issues. We've fought on many important fronts. What I'm a little curious about, and I want to ask SV about, is the fight that's going on, that women who are entrepreneurs, who create their own jobs, and who struggle to create values for themselves, should not have the same rights as the women who are ordinary employees. The Left, together with the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, has proposed in the vote, to give entrepreneurs equal rights and equal opportunities in terms of maternity leave, maternity pay, etc., we want a real lift. I don't understand why SV doesn't think this is an important gender equality fight – why they think it's more important to fight for the public service women than for the women who create the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e522	SV believes that this is very important – we are fighting for it. It is also stated in the Soria Moria Declaration of the Government Parties that priority must be given to this. What we think is most important to get in place now is the challenges we face in child protection. These include: minor asylum seekers. And – not least – it has to be invested in kindergartens, so that there will be full kindergarten coverage in this country. We've promised that for 30 years. I think that, from a gender perspective, is absolutely the most important thing for women to have the same opportunities and rights as men in working life, and for all children to have the opportunity to have a nursery place.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e529	The representative of May Hansen has a strong commitment to kindergartens. That's very good. It may seem, according to comments in the budget setting, that the representative Hansen sees part of the challenges facing private kindergartens, for example. when they are paid out discretionary funds in the municipalities. What I'm asking is how SV will approach the escalation plan when it comes to private kindergartens, in order to get more equal treatment between municipal and private kindergartens. We know that we don't want to achieve the goal of full needs coverage if we don't have offensive and good kindergartens as well. At the same time, we know that getting enough qualified pediatric staff is a challenge. There's a shortage of preschool teachers. We have a proposal in the setting for immediate action to increase the number of pre-school teachers. Is it possible for the SV to support this proposal when it is contested today?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e536	I want to answer again that the most important thing for us now is to put in place full child care coverage, both according to the children's needs, so that all children will have a place, and that we can get what we promised for 30 years. With regard to pediatric competence, we are very concerned that we should have high quality and good competence. The government is working on this, both in the context of the action plan and the action plan, in order to achieve it. In the case of non-discrimination in the municipalities, the municipalities have a great responsibility. That's perhaps what I've been most concerned about, and said most times in this room. When we worked on the reform, it was that the municipalities did not continue their nominal contribution on which this reform depended. In fact, in three years, 18 billion kroner have been added to kindergartens. That was $4.5 billion there. The government has said that we're going to get a full babysitting, with high quality and good competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e546	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e549	For the Centre Party, one of the pillars of policy design is to ensure a safe, good and rich growth of children. It will not be possible to achieve its central party's objectives of social and geographical cohesion and sustainable development without achieving the objective of giving children and young people good growth conditions. The family and the home are the most important framework around the children's upbringing. A good family policy is therefore a good growth policy, and a good growth gives good values to the children on the way out in life. Our family policy is producing results. We now experience that several parents spend more time with their children. The extension of the spring quota and the maintenance of the cash support have an effect, and we are pleased about that. Number of fathers taking leave from work to be born, increasing. The center part is concerned that parents should have the possibility to combine having small children with a working day. In such a policy, kindergartens are a fundamental element. And soon we'll be there – dear comrades in the red-green alliance – that all children can have room in kindergarten at a reasonable price. Many people talk about it, but we're the government that's going to do something about it! Of course, it is also very important that childcare facilities are of good quality. This is something that has been discussed by many. But everything is not rosy. Many children do not have it well, and the need for support for families and children is increasing. The welfare community's support apparatus is entirely decisive for the outcome of a care failure. Therefore, it is important to ensure an adequate and well-functioning safety net in the form of well-functioning child and family protection. This is a work that the Government is doing well. We live in a society that focuses largely on repair when a social problem arises. The centre party is overconfident that our society has a lot to do with focusing more on prevention. Not only is it socio-economic right to address the problems before they occur, or at least before they become too extensive, but it saves a lot of people too much suffering. Through the organisation of child and family policies, and by strengthening that part of the support device that early captures the signal that there is something wrong, when we more at an earlier time. In almost all cases this will lead to a better result. Strengthening prevention and knowledge-raising in schools and kindergartens and a closer link with the police's preventive work are good and important interventions in this way. In the Center Party, we also believe that bets on cultural and leisure activities and voluntary organisations fit into such a strategy. But culture and voluntary work, of course, have a self-sustaining value far beyond the pure prevention, and that is what we are going to come back to later today. Let me point out some of the important strengths the Government does in its budget. We are in the process of ensuring a better follow-up for single minor asylum seekers through a possible transfer of these to the protection of children. In this way, we are involved in securing a group that is often very vulnerable, children who come to the country without having close carers around them. Often an asylum-seeker cannot provide adequate follow-up services to this group. The government is now taking an important step to ensure that these are a better everyday life. We're securing an important life course. We are strengthening efforts to combat discrimination against homosexuals and lesbians, and not least we are strengthening the focus on gender equality. The joint teacher for the work of all of us in this room may be the goal of creating a better everyday life for our inhabitants. Norway has the last time a year been brought to the world's best country to live in. Nevertheless, we see that we still have a long way to go before everyone in this country shares the view that Norway is the world's best country to live in. I hope that this budget has made the country a little better to live in especially for these.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e568	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e571	It is relatively provocative when the representative from the Central Party says that there has been a lot of talk about kindergartens, but that this government is making it happen. I guess that's a little bit exaggerated, I guess. It was in the previous magnification period that this actually began to happen, and the sitting government follows it up. But that is not what I intend to ask the representative. SV wants all children to go to kindergarten as soon as mother's maternity leave is over. The working party is probably also there, as they are against cash support. Where has it been made by the family profile of the Center Party? Is it drowning in red-green cooperation? Does the Central Party also wish to remove the cash support in the long term?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e578	Let me first say quite clearly: this government is the government that is going to achieve the goal of full child-care coverage. And it doesn't come of itself. It comes because we targeted and heavily invested in kindergartens to achieve the goal of full coverage. So I don't doubt that even other parties have good intentions in kindergarten. But it's this government that's doing something about it. Then we'll talk about family policy. Yeah, the government is building its family policy on the Soria Moria Declaration. I have read the Soria Moria statement up to several times, and I can't see anything there saying that children are going into kindergarten right after Mother has completed her maternity leave. There's nothing in the Soria Moria statement. Will Woldseth get involved in this government's family policy, it's a paleness that applies, and that's the Soria Moria statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e588	It's true that it's this government that might get full babysitting. But it's hard to see what this government is really doing in relation to the course and the instruments that the previous government had actually set up. On the contrary, we see that the combination of max. price and expansion has been a rather demanding exercise to achieve the temporal progress that we wanted to develop. Then it says in the notes that the red-greens will continue to work on ‘an economic equality between private and municipal kindergartens’. And that's an important point, because that might be just where it pinches. It's just that the private kindergartens don't have strong enough incentives, which means we don't get the pace we all want. Then I have to ask the Center Party: what is it that you should continue to work on economic equality? If you want to do something about the percentage, for example:?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e597	I want to underline the point I had in relation to the representative Woldseth, also in relation to the representative Thommes. It is easy to talk about the objectives of kindergarten policy. It is easy to stand in this room and have many good words and formulations, but it actually requires economic resources if one is to achieve the goal of full child care coverage. There is an economic effort that has been increased by this government, and this government has a much greater effort than the previous one. That's why this government is collecting full child care coverage. So we know of course that this is a goal that several parties in the Storting have had. It is true that private kindergartens are very important to achieve the goal of full childcare. Therefore, the government is now working to get an overview of the situation to ensure that private kindergartens are treated in a fair way, because we need them further to achieve the goals that we have seen in kindergarten policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e604	Now I'm going to break a principle and do something that my mother and my father have taught me not to do, namely to ask questions that make others feel bad. The centre party was selected in the election campaign for the best single party. It was the party that had the best suggestions, in the opinion of one organization. The game was then in government with lots where, among other things, a Council of State from one of these has made many proposals in this area. So it turns out that this government is parking all the work on singles, sail if we've done a lot of pre-work. In fact, there was a separate investigation on the living conditions of singles that gave many new approaches to new policies as well. Nevertheless, you choose to park everything in government. And now, when we put forward proposals in the budget, the Central Party chooses to oppose them. I will give the representative an exit: What counterpowers is the Central Party and the Government have felt that all the work on singles has been parked?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e614	The central party, the Government and the Council of State, in particular, have a strong commitment to single. That is why the Government Declaration states that there should be a single policy issue. We are now one year out of government work. Hopefully this will last for three more years, and the Government has the intention to follow up on what is stated in the Declaration, namely that there should be a single policy issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e619	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e622	I also want to start with kindergartens. For the left, the main priority has always been to get to the most possible nursery places, sail if I now also have to admit that I am quite anxious about the quality of the nursery places. When we then have a government that has cut both research and higher education, and that says that the competence of this government is kindergarten, I'm very worried when you don't care about the quality of these kindergartens. In previous debates and in previous speeches, it has been made as if the bet made during the Bondevik II government was a forced bet. Let me just say that the difference between the Sem statement and the Soria Moria statement in relation to kindergartens is quite small. And sailing about it in history is most fathers who have tried to lie from fatherhood, there are obviously some who are trying to lie to. And I'm afraid that someone can suddenly end up in the union of misjudged fathers. However, differences between political parties are likely to exist. One is that you're so concerned about the price that you've made a reform that gives the richest, and that you're so busy that everything is going to happen in public, that you don't care about the difference between municipal and private, which is going to be a problem when you're going to bet on development. Another bet that the Left has within this framework is that we want to increase adoption support to 1G. It's no human right to be a parent, but it's a human right to have a parent. We think it is important that when someone actually takes on the responsibility of taking on a child, they should not be financially harmed. The representative of the Workers' Party said that a new spirit of equality policy was sought. I'm a little concerned that old-fashioned equality policy will be ‘new to give’. That you don't want to prioritize women entrepreneurs, and that you don't want equality here, but you think there are other, more old-fashioned measures that apply to me. Left wants women entrepreneurs to enjoy the same rights as workers. We want to increase the feather quota by one week in addition to the Government's proposal, which is also an important measure of equality policy to give fathers right to longer periods of time with their children. We have a number of challenges in terms of volunteering policy, and a lot of it comes under a different framework than this. Within this framework, the Left wants to strengthen the children’s and youth organisations, but also to strengthen efforts in the big cities, where voluntary organisations for children and young people are not as strong as they are making other places in the country. Then I have to make some comments about family policy. For the Left – which is a liberal party – it will always be clear that everyone must be respected for their different choices in relation to how they want to live their lives. But also the different fates in relation to how life has been must be respected. Therefore, the Left wants a new marriage law, and hopes that the Government will continue to work with it, sail if we do not see much support for the Left's proposal to address this in connection with the state budget. We are also concerned that the government has repeatedly set aside the matter of the sole situation. We now see, the government parties in the replication say they want to come up with a new case, that the Council of State here avoids saying that, and you see that there are problems in supporting the proposals that have been put forward in connection with this budget. When you're really going to cut something in this area, it's strange that it's in the appropriations for life measures it's going to cut. The left has wanted to maintain them at the level they are now, but I think it's a thought for people that this was one of the measures that the Council of State wanted to cut. Finally, I just have to give a big message of concern on behalf of child protection, which many people here have shared. My great concern is not only that there are many challenges to child protection today – which I believe is a cross-political consensus that we need to address – but that a majority in this Chamber will now transfer responsibility for the lone minor asylum seekers to child protection, without knowing how much it costs, and without knowing whether child protection should have increased competence in this area. At the same time, we see that child protection is under enormous pressure in other areas. The left may agree that unaccompanied minor asylum seekers should come under the protection of children, but now they once again become a caste ball in a system that has neither resources, knowledge nor opportunities to accept them. I think it's incredibly strange that a majority in the UK is in favour of this without even having us presented a case, without us having discussed it, and without knowing what this is going to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e652	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e655	Unfortunately, several of the former government parties cut the babysitting in this budget. In this way, you can see that a now, as in the previous period, is a brake and a delay in implementing the political childhood measures. Development, getting high quality and low parental pay must happen more or less at the same time, and that's what this government is now doing. For the next year, we're going to continue the parental payment at the same area level as this year, after we put her heavily into the budget for this year. The left will send a larger bill to parents, who will have to pay more to make room for their children. They cut in the operating order, cut in the investment bill, and cut in the discretion of the kindergartens. The left now wants parents to pay almost $0.5 billion extra from the kindergarten bet next year. Is it an expression that toddlers' parents and kindergartens are not as important to the Left as they can get the impression of, but an expression that Left minded grandparents have so liberal and good finances that they can pay a higher price for kindergarten places?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e664	This shows very well the differences in policy. For the Left, it is quality and that everyone should have the opportunity of offering which is the most important. That's why we've taken the grips we've taken, which will both give more space and allow the private to expand more space. The government parties have accepted all the proposals here which are of a quality. All the proposals aimed at non-discrimination between private and public kindergartens have been accepted. It would actually give you multiple places. The reform that has now taken place will hamper the development of several sites. This will lead to a good just being for a few. In addition, you are very concerned about the price, and e.g. in Oslo, a family in the Holmenkol lock, with 655000 kroner of income, can get two extra side trips, while those who have less than 150 000 kroner have increased their child care expenses. That's what the social grip this government takes. The left is concerned that everyone should have a place, and then we're going to get prices down, but we think that's the most important thing to do for those who can't afford it. And then we're busy having quality in kindergartens, so that everyone gets benefits from kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e671	I would like to make an article about kindergartens again, but I just want to say that we are busy with quality, which I was in for. The previous government was pressured to its kindergarten bet on the basis of a proposal from the Progress Party and SV. I am concerned about the lone minor asylum seekers. I was at the Bar Association in the election campaign, where the Left Thommessen was quite clear that this was a priority case from the Left. These children have been discriminated against in Norway for many years. They have not had the same legal certainty as others, for in Norway it is that when one does not have caregivers around him, child protection is provided and looked at and facilitates the measures needed. We've been criticized by the UN many times for this — three times. These children are poorly cared for, we know that. How can the representative feel that child protection does not have the competence to care for children in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e680	Firstly, I would like to say that the representative can only go back to both the Sem Declaration and the Soria Moria Declaration and see how similar child care is in terms of the objective. So to lonely, minor asylum seekers, who actually engage the Left and me very much. What I'm worried about now, is that we have a pressured child protection, a child protection that we're constantly looking away rejecting matters, just as the representative said in his post. I think there's a cross-political consensus that this is a challenge. But what you do is you put in lonely, minor asylum seekers here without having a proper investigation, which the Council of State really wanted, or really with money to build up a competence. The competence of child protection today is good in many areas. But I can mention an area they're not good at, based on my experience from Oslo. It's the multicultural area. How can one believe that a Norwegian child protection system, without special competence in the field, should deal with young people with strong war experiences, with memories of harsh abuse, without a plan to build up their skills?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e689	I challenge the representative Thommessen and Right earlier today when it rallied children and young people's growing-up conditions and what the local economy has to say for children and young people to have a good leisure and a good growth supply. I want to ask the same question to the representative of Skei Grande. The left also sat in the government that strangled the municipalities in such a way that it was cut into the recreational provision of young people and cut into the backbone, which in total led to a reduction in leisure provision for both children and young people. What is Left's option? A cut also in relation to the Government's budget for the next year, which would have resulted in a reduced provision of leisure if the budget of the Left had been multiplied. What is the option for children and young people, if one is really busy having good growth conditions for children and young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e698	In this area, I am sincerely sorry that the Center Party has changed sides, because here we have traditionally had many equal positions. The left has been concerned with local economy. In the last period, it probably happened sometimes that we wanted to have a better room for action. But what we're seeing now is that the Central Party has joined the government with a socialist party and a social democratic party, which is largely only concerned with cleaning up money into the public sector, not creating jobs in other areas. This in turn leads to the fact that, probably today again, we are going to have a new interest rate increase, which in turn is going to choke the municipalities. Any small step in the interest rate – which the socialist run from the Government now leads to – will strangle the municipalities, strangle the leisure offer and strangle the action space of individual municipal politicians. We have much greater faith in the local politicians than in the government bubble that the Central Party has now suddenly entered into. We see that municipal politicians actually have the opportunity to prioritise much better. Let me again use the example of kindergartens, where municipal politicians have been much better at preventing differences between people than the government is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e707	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e710	The government has presented a draft budget with a strengthening in many important areas. We want to revitalise gender equality in Norway and have therefore increased the allocation for this purpose by 20 million. kr. It means an increased focus on regional gender equality, on gender policy research and on the role that men should play in the future work on gender equality. In addition, we propose a strengthening of the funding for Reform — the Human Resources Centre, the Women's Policy Organisations and the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman. The budget also has a clear commitment to equality between gay and heterophilic and gay living conditions. For the Government, this is about contributing to an inclusive society where no one is discriminated against on the basis of sexual orientation. The best interests of children must guide future family policies. The lives of children have changed markedly in recent years. We see a development with more commercial impact. Games, the Internet and mobile phone have changed children's everyday lives considerably. Child protection shall take care of the most vulnerable children. The government bets on child protection and proposes, for the second consecutive year, a significant increase in the appropriations for the protection of state children. At the same time, we know that there are major challenges to the economic situation in the childhood, youth and family situation. The government has therefore announced an external review of, among others. the management and conversion work of the establishment and of the department's administration. To the representative of May Hansen, I would like to say that the government has started a thorough work in all the areas in which the representative was involved. The child protection reform has soon worked for three years. The government now wants a broad evaluation of the entire reform, looking at both professional and economic developments. This evaluation will start in 2007. We must not forget that the municipalities have the primary responsibility for child protection in Norway. A good local economy is therefore a prerequisite for good child protection. I am therefore pleased that the Government again proposes a significant strengthening of the local economy. In addition, we need to strengthen the competence of municipal child protection. In 2007, we have therefore proposed using $12 million. kr on a municipal competence programme. The government parties announced in the Soria Moria Declaration that child protection should take over responsibility for the lone minor asylum seekers. I am very pleased that the majority in Stortinget has now agreed that this reform will begin in 2007 by assuming the responsibility of the child protection authorities for single minor asylum seekers under 15 years of age from the foreign authorities from the autumn 2007. I want to say that contrary to the Left – who had government power and the ability to conduct thorough investigations in this field over many years, and had the power to carry out this transfer to child protection with the necessary competence, with the necessary resources – this government has actually done so in a very short time. This does not come to the tame of a poaching session or is presented as a campaign case. We're doing this in two steps now, and we're saying we're willing to add the resources that are needed to make this acquisition. It's about having a heart for the children who sit at the receptions that don't have the offer they should have, and that many former governments should have a bad conscience towards. My invitation to the left is: let's get an interaction with how we're going to get a better place for these kids when they're going out of the receptions and out to a regular everyday life in our municipalities. Efforts towards coercion and sexual mutilation should continue, and we should intensify this work. We will present a new action plan in this field. I could also say a lot about consumer policy. I can assure the representative Thommes that there is close cooperation between several departments in this field, including in the area of competition policy. We are going to present our own consumer portal, precisely in order to be able to compile different product information, so that it becomes more transparent and easier for consumers to compare products and prices, for example. loans, savings and insurance.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e738	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e741	Today we have heard a lot about the alleged large investment in children and families, as the Government does. At the same time, I have noticed that there has been no adjustment in child welfare in Norway for ten years. The maximum price in kindergartens has been increased despite clear promises in this area, and there is considerable uncertainty in the kindergarten sector. SV's representative, Sande, said that the government is working to get an overview of the matter. It is impressive that you have been in government for over a year and still do not have an overview of how things stand in Children- and Family-Norway! My question is, where is the alleged bet, when the maximum price goes up, when there are major problems in private kindergartens, and when you don't adjust the child's pension?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e751	It is quite right that child welfare has not been adjusted since 1996. The rates were last changed in 2004. Then there was a reduction of 24 kroner per person. children, by the Bondevik II Government. A further increase in child welfare has not been achieved by any government in many years. One of the reasons is that you have just chosen to bet on the solutions that the young children’s parents themselves have asked for. Then kindergarten expansion has been the most important thing, not just for this government. I want to correct the picture that was given here instead. No, babysitting didn't happen during the Bondevik II government. It was in fact the Stoltenberg I government that put in place the first children's garden billionaire and began an offensive bet. And it was the government that actually started the work and put in place an equality between private and public kindergartens. It has been the answer from the red-green parties, precisely because we have seen that the needs of small children's families have not been cash transfers, such as, among other things. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have said in terms of family policy. As we get knowledge of the needs, we know that it's the answers from the red-green parties that are the right ones in family policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e762	We have it in common with the Council of State that we want an extension of the feather quota. We propose it as part of our proposals in this year's budget. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the quota should be increased by five weeks. You've gotten this far on one if I don't remember completely wrong. That means there's four left, and you have two budgets to do it on. Now it's also the little fix with the father's quota that when you get started with it, it slows down. It costs a lot of money. As I am among those who look forward to coming into government in not too many years, I wonder if this is a clever grip from the Council of State, that she is now sleeping with confidence to get this going, to push the bill forward after the next election. The bill is going to be big, and we find that it's going to be reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e771	I am pleased that the Right in opposition has become impatient in this field. That commitment is to be taken into account in the further debate. We're also going to look at what Right concrete will do if they get the opportunity to come back to the government offices. But I hope it takes a long time. What's in our statement is that we actually want to fulfill the concrete promises during this big time period. The representative is well aware that in the budget that we are presenting next year, we have not agreed to an increase in the father's quota. But what we're doing is we're adding up to an offensive bet, so we're going to be able to get to the goal over the end of the period. The representative knows that a government has to make political choices, and in this round this did not achieve this in relation to the overall priorities we did. As the representative himself knows, neither did the Bondevik II government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e778	There was an increase in the father rate under the previous government, and there was also an offensive investment in kindergartens. We got 25,000 new kindergartens under the Bondevik II administration, so the history image is more nuanced than the state council put forward here. What I want to ask the Council of State is: what does the Government want to do when it comes to the situation of the individual? Would you like to send a notification to the government? The Bondevik II administration and Laila Davay were in the process of reporting on the case, focusing on the different challenges related to building costs, municipal charges, etc. The council has said that they want to bring their own case, not promise their own big message. Where is this case in the loop? And when can we expect the government to come back to the matter? The Christian People's Party has taken initiatives, and many people support the fact that today we have put forward a proposal that we want a big message. This is true of a lot of people in Norway, and we think it is important that we get a wide deal with this case. It's important to keep things in focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e787	I think it's the first time it's been said from the Parliament's pulpit that representatives are dealing with almost untruths, but I want to say that today, because the reality that both the Left and the Christian People's Party are trying to do in terms of single policy and the work that the previous government had done doesn't mean it's true. There was no message ready for dispatch when we took over the government power. We were waiting for a separate report from the Statistical Central Bureau just to get a knowledge base to design the right actions. The representative knows very well that the work had not come that far, and that this study was actually finished in the spring. Then we would like to have a discussion here in the Chamber about whether there should be a message or not, and in what form the Stortinge will have the opportunity to debate single policy. But to blame the government parties for not being willing to have an offensive single policy after we have been in the government offices for a little over a year – with the whole history of these two parties on this issue – I don't think it's related.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e794	To a public misunderstanding, President. What I said in my post was that the Bondevik II administration had started a job with a big message, and had agreed that she would come. It's not untruth. You can go back and find documentation on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e801	The President noted that the Council of State wondered if ‘nearly false’ was a parliamentary expression. ‘Ly’ would not have been so, but ‘nearly false’ is probably a disagreement about facts. That's what I realized the Council of State expressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e804	Thank you! That was the good president approved it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e809	We have good people to find quotes from the landfill treatment, so we'll do that. I will also go back to the deliberations, namely to the Council's reply to me on 8 November on lone minor asylum seekers, where she says: 'There is no doubt that this will be a major reform with economic but also professional implications. That's why it's important that we do some proper preparatory work, so that we can take these children in a proper way." She went on to say, “Then it takes some time, but I can promise that both Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and I will work intensively on this, and we will make suggestions as soon as we are done.” That's what the council said to me on November 8. Three days later, the Council of State was ready – three days later! It took three days to upgrade child protection, figured out all the consequences and get everything on the table. Then I wonder if this was done in order not to dare say that this must be done properly, and that you are not so concerned about having a heart for the children, but that you are actually most concerned about getting the PR around such a grip, because we all agree on that. Some people also have to make the unpopular decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e828	It's the way with this government that it's not waiting for the next time it's going to win a choice, to start a job, and then it's going to refer to all the good suggestions it had lying in the drawer when it went off. From the first day this government has started work on transferring responsibility for single minor asylum seekers. There has been a continuous work. But the representative knows very well that there are rules of play for when one can go out with decisions the government has taken. If the representative really believes that the government actually started its work in this field on 8 November, I can assure the representative that it has not. This has been an important matter, which has been included in the declaration. There has been a strong commitment from all three government parties in this field. I have to say, I'm glad we're now phased into this acquisition through two steps, where we take the smaller children first. Then we take the further promise with those who are over 15 years old, in the next round. I hope that this will mean not only that we are now formally transferring responsibility from one department to another, but that these children will get real help, get psychological help, and that they will get a better offer than they have actually received in receptions today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e835	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e839	It's hardly as a surprise that I want to talk a little bit about child protection. We have had to increase the budgets ever since the state assumed responsibility for the child protection institutions. This is not just because the need for child protection services has increased, but because we have a large and heavy bureaucracy that requires more and more resources. Fewer of those associated with national child protection are still in contact with the children. We've heard this for a number of years, and we've been in the queue of screaming and startled politicians saying that this doesn't work out. It cannot be assumed that children who have difficulties have to wait for their place of residence, wait for their foster home, wait for their follow-up and wait for them to be protected. All of them need action, and many have to wait a long time before they receive any offer. It's not just the Progress Party that finds this unacceptable. The very majority of the parties in this hall say that. We have agreed over a number of years that this is not good enough, when anxiety messages remain, when deadlines are not complied with, and when young people are released into life after an institution stay, without aftercare, and when children actually suffer. The problem is that we have said this year after year. We've all said it. Now I know that someone will say: yes, but how in the world can the Progress Party at all dry to say something like that, those who cut 480 million. kr in the budget for the State Child Protection and Single Minor Asylum Seekers. I'll finally explain that, so that we can clarify this obvious misunderstanding once and for all. We don't want children to suffer. But the increases in the budget and in the balancing propositions do not apply to the children to a significant extent. They're dealing with bureaucracy. Anyone who has read the Riksrevision reports in the last few years will have seen it. And when the Progress Party cuts, we're well aware that only the state child protection alone is going to spend SEK 3.8 billion next year. And when we read at the Central Statistical Bureau, the SSB, that we spent SEK 2.8 billion on state institutions and foster homes supported by state regions – DKK 2.8 billion of the 4 billion allocated – this says something about the level of bureaucracy. On our committee tours around the country, we always meet the same frustration of the municipal child protection workers, who do an excellent job, namely that the 24 teams that are set up are unable to get hold of the clinic. But it was precisely the teams who were supposed to help those who were in the first line service and had contact with the children. Where did they go? At least they do not help the first line service out in the municipalities. It is then allowed to ask whether this was a good idea, or whether this is simply – regret my indebtedness – employment measures for municipal workers who are child-restraint workers. At least there are still queues of worry messages. There are still things that are not even queued for messages. There are children who still live with their parents. That's not good enough! That's why the Progress Party wants to do something, look at new forms of organization, look at new forms of supervision, and last but not least, help the children, ensure a safe upbringing, all the children. If we cut $480 million. I am sure that there will be a much more efficient organisation, which can enter the problem families at a much earlier time. I have been challenged on the topic of lone minor asylum seekers, and I will come back to that in a three-minute post later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e854	There are some things in the family and cultural committee that go into the lives of people. Many of those matters are under the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. What affects most of us is the issues of child protection. In the last 20 years, we have seen a large increase in child protection cases, and therefore also increasing economic needs for the establishment. There are probably many reasons for this, both that there are several young people in need of help and that child protection may have improved when it comes to discovering the needs of more and more families. And so we're talking about the most vulnerable of all: kids and young people who don't have adults who can be the good caregivers that every human being needs to have a good upbringing. The government has increased the appropriations for the protection of children by approx. 300 million. kr in the 2007 budget. In addition to this, work has been started to deal with the large amount of additional consumption that has also been seen within this field. The Directorate-General for Children, Youth and Family has a continuous dialogue with the five regions managing the State Child Protection, and the Government has taken some important steps to review the arrangements that are in place for the young people for whom child protection has to be taken over. These include: in the last few years, an increasing use of private, commercial actors in the field of child protection has been seen. Some of these are more like large groups to count, and many generate significant dividends through the services they sell to public child protection. The Government aims to distort the measures of private, commercial enterprises with high profits for state action or solutions in cooperation with or under the direction of NPISHs. We want to pursue a policy in this area where more children under the care of children can be in foster homes, in community-based and home-based interventions, and thus have fewer institutions, at least for a longer time. In this it is also that foster homes become even more important as partners in the schemes we develop. It is therefore important to focus on the situation of foster homes, both in terms of working conditions and professional follow-up. At the same time, there is a need to ensure a wide range of measures in the area of child protection, so that as far as is advisable, there is a special offer suitable for individual children or young people. It is therefore an important task to build a diversity of state institutions and measures that we want to be there for young people and young people in need of help. It is an explicit objective to continuously strengthen and update the competences of child protection and also to strengthen multidisciplinary cooperation that is so important to help vulnerable children and young people. Many of those who come under the care of children have mental or drug problems. We also know that many have, or have had, contact with the criminal environment. In other words, many people have very complex problems, which also have to be solved through cooperation between different help agencies. An important group is former paediatric protection children between 18 and 23 years of age, often in need of after-care. The government has now started work to look at the functioning of post-protection and will seek to implement good practice in this area in the light of experience gained. It is an important social policy commitment taken through the 2007 budget, with the state child protection now taking responsibility for single minor asylum seekers under the age of 15. This is a matter that has been on the political agenda for a long time, and it is set out in the Soria Moria Declaration. It's very important that the first 25 million. kr is granted on next year's budget. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality will also continue to work on the planning and design of offers for the group aged 15 to 18, and will return to the case at a later date, hopefully as soon as possible. There are hardly any young people in the country who need more of the care of their children than this group. Many of them have a heavy luggage of experiences to deal with and are therefore extremely vulnerable. The acquisition we now get in 2007 becomes very important. In the same way, I would also like to highlight the work of child protection against North-West Russia, which is a very important part of people's people's cooperation in the north. In the years to come, we're going to have a lot of cooperation with our big neighbor in the east. It is a neighbouring rich in both human and other resources, but it is also a country with great poverty. For several years now, the Northern Region Children’s and Young People’s Group has cooperated with North-West Russia in order to strengthen and build child protection competences in the public sector of the region. The results achieved are very good. It is therefore important for the Government to continue this work so that assistance can be given to a group of children and young people who in many cases suffer from extremely serious care failures. Nordic policy does not become holistic and consistent without ensuring the full spectrum of the efforts we need, and health and social policy must also be an important part of this. I am pleased that the Government sees both the importance of reviewing all aspects of the work done in the field of child protection, and at the same time increases the government's allocation. It is in stark contrast to the largest opposition party, the Progress Party, which incredibly proposes far greater cuts in child protection in its alternative budget than the increases we have made in the 2007 budget chapter on child protection, in fact nearly 500 million. kr. And it's drastic no matter how you justify it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e878	2007 can be a historic year in many ways. This could be the year when we are able to fulfill one of the most ancient promises of Norwegian policy, namely full child care coverage for all those who want kindergarten for their children. This is a goal that the Government has. We have three objectives of our kindergarten policy: one is full needs coverage, the other is high quality, and the third is low price. And that the government prioritises kindergartens, is very clear from the budget that is currently under consideration. We spend SEK 3.2 billion more on kindergartens next year, and of these, a total of SEK 1.2 billion goes into the development of new places. The purpose of kindergartens is to provide a safe care and educational offer to the children. In addition, kindergarten has an important social perspective beyond this, namely that kindergarten is important for social cohesion and not least for the development of children. It is also a paradox that the socio-economic importance of kindergarten is very rarely highlighted in the debate on kindergarten policy in general. We now have more recent research showing that investment in kindergartens is also very profitable socio-economic. Let me quote the Right-Rapporteur in the Drama, Tore Opdal Hansen, who says: «The day we can say that all children in Drammen will have children's playground, we will have a competitive advantage for other cities.» The right-wing rapporteurs also note the importance of kindergartens simply for a city to be attractive for people to live in. Norway is also very well mentioned in a new OECD report that has looked at all aspects of our kindergarten policy. Norway, together with the other Nordic countries, is highlighted because we have an overall and coherent approach to both care and learning. Our goal is to have a high quality babysitting service, and fortunately we do. There has been a strong focus on the development of kindergartens in recent years, but fortunately it has been possible to maintain the high quality we are going to have. This means that both the Kindergarten Act and the framework plan we put in place on 1 August of this year provide a safe, educational framework around the business – which means that we have a high quality. In addition, we have competent pedagogical staff in the nursery, which is very important for us to have a full and good nursery service. The government is therefore proposing to continue strengthening the funds for the development of competences in kindergartens by 50 million. kr from 2006 to 2007 – same as this year. We are now working on a strategy for empowerment in the kindergarten sector. The government will also work to improve the knowledge base on recruitment and non-retirement from the pre-school teaching profession and the need for pre-school teachers in a fully developed sector. This is a very important piece, and we will come back with a recruitment plan for the kindergarten sector, simply because we want more people to find their work there to maintain the high quality we have. I must also say that it is gratifying to see that so many people want to become pre-school teachers. There have never been any more applicants for pre-school education than at the main admission to higher education this year, and it's very urgent to get in. But that's very pleasing, because it shows that young people want to find their jobs in kindergartens. The government, as I said, has full child-care coverage as its goal. In 2007, the Government provides ad hoc support for the highest expansion of kindergartens ever. We're adding up a total of 19,300 full-time seats, which will add up to 15,800 more children. Since the state budget was submitted in October, I have received reports from the municipalities indicating that the overall target for development in 2006 will be achieved. It shows that the development objective for 2007 can be achieved. Our definition of full child-care coverage, as the government now defines, is that anyone applying for a place within the time limit for the main admission in the spring of 2007. But if we are to succeed in achieving this ambitious goal, we must have good cooperation with the builders, both private and public – and we do. We have a very close and good cooperation with municipalities and private developers, which means that fortunately we have achieved a record expansion this year as well. It makes us optimistic about how we're going to achieve this next year. Many municipalities have reached the goal of full coverage, and it's very happy. But some, especially larger cities and metropolitan municipalities, have a piece left. That is why we have also introduced a new grant into this budget for temporary premises for permanent posts. We hope that this can be an extra carrot for those who have demanding plot alternatives, where you don't have plots that are ready to build. In this way, existing building masses can be redispatched in order to have a kindergarten that does not necessarily have to be there forever, but so that parents do not have to wait to build up kindergartens. As I said, this is one of the highest priority areas of government policy, and we have delivered impressive results over the 14-15 months we have been sitting. After all, I record from the debate that many people here want the fatherhood of the kindergarten settlement. The representatives of the previous government boast about what they have done. Then it is probably only to note the following: The nursery agreement was concluded against the votes of the then government. So it was the opposition, including the Advance Party, who made the kindergarten arrangement and forced the government to make an offensive effort. One year before the kindergarten agreement was concluded, almost uninhabited kindergartens were built in Norway — before the kindergarten agreement came into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e909	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e912	It's nice that the council refers to my home town, Drammen, where I'm also a city councilman. The city is also governed by the Right Party and the Advance Party. The KLP Paper cannot exactly be said to be a progress party publication. It was dumped in my mailbox yesterday. Here, some of the issues are the uncertainties of the childhood situation in Norway. ‘Slither with child hail lifts in municipality-Norway’ is one of the titles. «Faithful to Believe in Repeated Lifts» is another title. I tried to challenge the Party Council member May Hansen whether she was comfortable with the promises made by the Government in terms of the maximum price, and in terms of not introducing non-discrimination between private and public kindergartens. I'm a little uncertain about what she really answered, but one thing that went clearly forward was that SV thought that the maximum price is not a static number. Is the Council of State of the same view, and one would like to see it, for example. could we get a maximum price of, let's say, NOK 3 500 or NOK 4000 or NOK 5000?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e923	Let me just say that it's not broken a single promise in kindergarten. On the contrary, kindergarten policy is one of the most offensive served in this room for many years. I'm glad. I'm not particularly happy about it because of the government's reputation, but I'm happy about it because there are tens of thousands of parents who now have their children's kindergarten. That's why we're doing politics. So what we have made clear during these years – first against the will of the previous government and now in position – is that we have built tens of thousands of places that make children suddenly have a kindergarten that did not exist before. The quality is high, and not least the price is low. That's what we did. That means that I am happy that the Progress Party was at some point involved in this agreement in Stortinget, which made it possible to start this venture. I record with some sadness that the Progress Party does not have the same involvement around kindergartens as they had in the previous period, because the party was a loyal supporter in the Stortinget that time. I record that now you are doing more polemics with the Government against what you previously agreed on. I want the Progress Party back to where they were in the last period: as a faithful and good supporter of this fantastic effort for the children in Norway to have good kindergarten places.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e930	I note great enthusiasm from the Council of State for progress in building kindergartens, and I share it. There's a lot of positive happening. However, we see that progress has not been as simple as one might imagine. We also see – I hope it’s a common recognition – that the private kindergartens play a very central role in achieving full child care coverage. We need to have a good incentive for the private kindergartens to swing around and become more and thus contribute to full child care coverage. So it's said that it's working on economic equality between private and municipal kindergartens. That's a very central point. I must then ask the Council of State: what does this work consist of? Is it that we, for example, to increase this operating grant part from 85 pst. And up, or what are you dealing with?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e937	Let me first stress that it is right that the representative says that we are very dependent on the private developers. They stood last year for the whole 70 pst. by the extension of kindergartens. I am very pleased, and I have every reason to praise all the private people who build kindergartens. So they have a funding today that makes that 70 pst. by kindergartens last year, was built by private people. That means that funding can't be so ravgal. So we have the same funding system that the previous government established. It was the Davøy Government Council that established today's financing model. We haven't changed it, but it has obvious weaknesses. Of course, that means we're going through a funding system that needs to be even more accurate, but you can't just change a percentage. You have to look at the whole funding system. Of course, we are in the process of doing that, in line with what is stated in the Soria-Moria Declaration, and in line with what has been an expressed wish through the kindergarten agreement. However, there are no simple components to this, because kindergartens have very different costs — from a municipality in a press area to a municipality, which may at some point have been free of charge. So this is a much more complicated problem than just a percentage change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e946	When it comes to the nursery arrangement, the government party was at that point in time. We did not agree to present the proposal, but in the setting and when the matter was dealt with in Stortinget, one came up with a broad deal. I thought that was great. I think that state councillor Djupedal, in 2005, when he was relatively new state councillor, was very proud of all the new kindergartens that had been built in 2005. So it was a result of the Bondevik II government. So this black and white production when it comes to babysitting, I didn't think anything special about it, because there are a lot of people who have struggled and stood by. It's important that we do the same thing in the future. I have a question for the Council of State. It's a co-consultant committee that takes into account the importance of getting private kindergartens to know and pay operating funds from the municipality at the start of a new calendar year. I wonder how the Council of State will follow this up, whether it will take any initiative – or contact – towards the municipalities, because it is very important that they know what they are going to do. The Christian People's Party wants to step up non-discrimination between municipal and private kindergartens, and we suggest in our budget that we go up from 85 pst. to 87 pst. Does the Council of State realize that the Government can bring a massive escalation here?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e957	As I said in the previous line, we have the same financing system for kindergartens that the representative Molvær Grimstad party trap, former councillor Laila Davay, established. This model has obvious weaknesses, and I'm glad that the Christian People's Party now, when they're in opposition, spends a lot of its time polishing against the former Council of State of Bavøy's model. But that means, as I said to the representative Thommess, we're in a process of making a more accurate model. But to increase the grant from 85 pst. to 87 pst. does not provide a more accurate model. We know that for sure. We there have to go through this more carefully, and we will of course come back to Stortinget at an appropriate time with it. But we are very concerned with predictability for the private developers in terms of funding. I have taken note of the Committee's comment that the grant is requested earlier this year. Naturally – and of course – the Council of State will follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e965	It is likely that the historians are the ones who are going to write the story of where child care policy has its roots. My and Left stance is enough that it was in the spring of 1999, from Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, that it was set up for the new scheme. It was e.g. The first time SV chose to swallow their resistance to equality between municipal and private kindergartens, which they continue to engage in in many municipalities by suppressing the private people who want to make offers to children. But I got a little anxious when the council said we were against the nursery agreement, because I actually put my signature under this agreement here in Stortinget. Is it true that the Council of State believes that everything you are not the initiator of, or not the support of, in all comments is opposed? I'm worried about everything that's been put in by the opposition about quality in kindergartens, about more preschool teachers. There are very many mothers and fathers who seem to be getting far between preschool teachers in kindergartens, and who are genuinely concerned about that. If it's the case that the Council of State is against all the proposals the opposition has put in here, and is against our perspectives, I'm worried.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e974	What is very pleasing is that in this period of very sharp expansion, we have managed to maintain the pedagogical density. There are now several pedagogues in kindergartens — in number, and that means that the relationship between pedagogues and children is somewhat identical. I think it's a pedagogical density of 33 pst. Or around there. So that's about how it's been. But it's clear that we have higher ambitions than this. We also record that there is an increasing number of kindergartens that do not have pedagogical management, especially here in Oslo and in Oslo's peripheral municipalities, we see that this is a problem. Obviously, it's a challenge for us, because having educational staff is very important to maintain the high quality we want. As I said in my post, there is now a very large and good search for pre-school teacher training. That means that many people want to find a job in kindergarten. It's a pleasure. We will come back with a recruitment message where we will also look at how people with pre-school education can come back to the profession, and not least how to get more men into the profession, and how many of those in the profession want to stay in the profession. All these are demanding issues on which we are in dialogue with the Education Association and other key actors to ensure that we maintain and strengthen the quality of kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e981	The council claimed in its reply to me that the Progress Party had changed its kindergarten policy. It's a relatively rough rewrite of reality. The documentation on this lies here, namely in the budgetary position we are discussing today, where it is actually the Progress Party that is calling for the maximum price to be fixed and for the equal treatment of public and private kindergartens. I assume that this may be related to the fact that in some cases attacks are the best defense, and that he had no particular desire to answer the questions. I can try to put them back again: what will the Council of State do with the uncertainty that is now with regard to kindergartens – and the statement May Hansen made that the maximum price is not a static figure? And then what can we expect of future max. pricing from the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e988	There are a lot of people who have said that the maximum price will be an obstacle to development. What we've done in these years is prove the opposite. We've done three things, which, with a popular term, we often call a cheeky egg. We have done three things at the same time: we have high quality, we have a lot of expansion, and at the same time we have a low price. It's this policy we're going to pursue. The government's maximum price policy is set out in the government statement, and we follow that up. But it is clear that I notice that especially two parties in this room now increase the maximum price considerably and say that it means full child care coverage. Of course, it's very simple. There is no easier way to get full babysitting than to set the price. That's what the right and left do. Of course, a lot of those who can't afford it will fall out of line. You might say that you have full babysitting, but you don't have full needs, because that means that a lot of parents can't afford babysitting. Our government's policy is that kindergartens, as well as all the other positive ones, are also a means of social cohesion. This means that it should be possible for those who have poor advice, also to have the high-quality offer as a nursery place. That's what we have made clear over these years. I have been very pleased with the support of the Progress Party. If I understand the representative Knudsen right now, that he is still a good supporter of the maximum price agreement in Stortinget, I appreciate it very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e997	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1002	I have to say that State Council Djupedal's last comment on how the maximum price works within the order of magnitude with which the Left and Right operate when we set prices up and down, draws a pretty simple picture of the whole. I think that's a little worrying. I also think it is worrying when we talk about non-discrimination between municipal and private kindergartens. When I have asked questions about this both to the Council of State and to the representative Sande, if I remember correctly, I have been quite baffled with the answer, to say it with Holberg. If you're working a lot on this, you might be able to give some signals about what areas you're thinking of improving non-discrimination. Some examples or some small hints we have to expect to get on such a crucial, important question. It is such that there are barriers in private kindergarten development, which in fact become central to achieving the goal that the Government has set itself, which even central members of the Government have almost set their sights on. I understand that this deeply worries the Government into its own ranks. I have to say that it is an almost eye-catching look that the Prime Minister has contributed to in the Newspaper today, where he shuts down in the Municipality of Oslo because they have what he calls a ‘powerless bet’ in kindergartens. 'Get your pace up!' said the Prime Minister. I have to say that is to send the bill to the wrong address, and to fix the baker for the blacksmith. Oslo Municipality stands for between 16 pst. and 17 pst. of the growth of kindergartens throughout the country. They have particularly major challenges in the Oslo municipality with high birth rates and high migration rates. They had an expansion of 3,000 new kindergartens last year and are going to achieve the same for the current year. When you have previously been called to the Prime Minister's office and received commendation for being a proponent and really got a swing on matters after the result of the previous year, and now get the hell out of being a retard in the class this year, yes, then you bring this in as part of a municipal election campaign, which I might think the Government and, in particular, the Prime Minister should keep up for good. The thing is, the government has no good answer on how to equalise municipal and private kindergartens. It doesn't know what it's going to do to make sure that this gets in place. Then there will be a bit too cheap a response when the Prime Minister tries to push the issue over into a one-sided municipal challenge. Until the government comes up with a little better hint and some little tips on what it's going to do, I have to say that this has been a very bad idea so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1015	First, I would like to say a few words about the compensation scheme for children in children's homes and in special schools for children with behavioural problems. The manner in which the compensation scheme has been dealt with is not satisfied with the Progress Party. We don't exactly want to use the word 'candals', but it's not far away. The cases have been back and forth from the Bill Compensation Committee to the Justice Secretariat, there have been different opinions about what the Stortinget really means – and while waiting for these people, who are now adults. Many of them have serious injuries. Several of those who have applied for compensation do not even live anymore. I hope that the Council of State will take this into account now. I see that it says that the procedure will not last more than one year, but one year is a very long time for the people involved. So I urge the Council of State to go through this, look at it, so that we get ahead of ourselves in these matters. It's important to them. Then to single minor asylum seekers. Already in the 2000 budget, the Progress Party first promoted the proposal that single, minor asylum seekers be transferred to child protection. So that's seven years ago. Every year we have been alone – until SV supported us in the previous period. So something's happening. Once again, it means that the Advance Party must be the snow plow. We are always accused of having other motives, but in connection with the Ministry of Local Affairs' budget, you will see that we have actually invested money within the municipalities as well. It is good that we should move the lone minor asylum seekers and get a proper and fair offer to these children. There are often highly traumatised children who need very good follow-up and treatment, both for physical and mental damage. If the Council of State looks at what is in the intentions of the investigation that the voluntary organizations have made, and follows the advice that lies there, as well as looking into their own investigation, I'm sure this will end well. But I hope it won't take too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1028	The Ibsen year is coming to the end. In this budget, the Government proposes to grant 1.5 million. kr at an international Ibsen prize to stimulate critical debate on major societal and existential issues. When the Right has critical remarks, there are two main reasons for it. Firstly, it is important to evaluate the Ibsen year that is now nearing its end. We need to look at the status – what is done, and what is to be continued? In the right, we believe there is a lack of commitment to some other Ibsen projects. This has to be assessed against the creation of an international Ibsen price. Secondly, the country must have a strategy for its Ibsen bet in the future. An international Ibsen price must be seen in such a holistic approach. The status of the Ibsen Prize is very well known and little concrete. What does it mean to make an extraordinary effort in the spirit of Ibsen? If it's cool enough, maybe it's okay enough. In the Right, we believe it is important to put in place a long-term strategy in relation to the management of Ibsen's authorship. In this context, we want a more eaten Ibsen price. The wonderful thing about this is that in Norway we already have an Ibsen prize, a dramatist's prize. There is no equivalent in the country. The municipality of Schien has distributed this national Ibsen award for 20 years. It is highly valued and taxed, and it must really be said to be a price in the spirit of Ibsen. I know that the municipality of Skien has applied to the Ministry to expand this award to become an international dramatist award, but that the city's Labour Party rapporteur, and also the head of culture, have come to a brief meeting with the department. It would be quite natural that the Ski had the opportunity to further develop its traditional Ibsen prize. It is in the spirit of Ibsen, and it is well established in Ibsen's birthplace. It can't be that the government is going to rob the ski of its Ibsen-price, or outrun it? In this case, it's actually both necessary and right with a rest section. An international Ibsen prize must be established in the right context and in relation to a conscious strategy. Ibsen in 2006 is expected to be a success. The events throughout the year have raised Henrik Ibsen's authorship and increased awareness of this, not least in his own country. This year has also illustrated the responsibility of Norway as a nation to manage literature history’s leading authorship. An extension of the ski's dramatic prize will fit perfectly into this picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1041	The President would say that the representative made a good contribution to the cultural section, but child protection has not hurt to hear a little about Ibsen either.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1044	I have to say this in a slightly different way than I did last time, so maybe the Progress Party remembers that they were with us about it. We do not break the maximum price. It says in the Soria Moria Declaration: «Maximum price of $1,750 is introduced when full kindergarten coverage is reached». [[2005-krones]] That means that it has to be priced. The Progress Party also agreed with us in the previous period. In the case of minor asylum seekers, I am a little startled by the post held by the representative of the Left. In fact, the left-wing representative said that child protection left issues with custody. It's not like that. In Norway, the legal certainty of any child is such that when no caregivers are involved, child protection is the body in Norway, according to the law, which enters and takes care of it. It's not that child-responsiveness puts matters in that way. Then we can be concerned about child protection, and we can be concerned about whether we have a good enough knowledge of minor asylum seekers in Norway. I do not think we have, and at least it is not well maintained where it is today. But there is a lot of competence, and when we move over the responsibility, you have to go in and do a job until 1 October, so you can take advantage of the skills we already have in this field. This was a big case for the Left in the election campaign, and here breaks his left election vows. Then to the representative from the Right. We had a debate here in Stortinget about testing languages for the 4-year control. It is not that anyone in this room from the government parties believes that children with a minority background have to go to kindergarten. What we're saying is that those families must also be allowed to choose to go to kindergarten. Cash support has actually been a hindrance to it, because you don't have financial opportunities to say no to it. We see that child protection can use kindergarten to a lesser extent than before as a preventive measure, because some families cannot afford to say no to cash support, and that is what we think is problematic. I'd like to challenge the right on one thing. I am quite startled at what the right has entered the setting. You are concerned about competence and language development. However, the Right Party – and the Progress Party – is not in the position of the majority to ‘emphasize the work on the multicultural competence of child protection and is pleased that work has now been started on this as a goal’. So this doesn't agree with the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1064	Since the representative Thommessen once again took up non-discrimination, let me just repeat what I have said earlier. The model we have is the model that was introduced under the previous government. That model has weaknesses, I think everyone has seen that. When I hear the opposition's commitment to a model they themselves have introduced, when they didn't make any changes in the four years they set, I'm a little surprised at that. But the reason is probably that they know that it's not just as simple as saying that you're going from 85 pst. to 87 pst. coverage, or otherwise do that type of grip, simply because the cost variation in Norwegian kindergartens is significant. It is therefore not a single grip that can be done. I think Thommes knows that very well, and I think that's what the committee leader, Molvær Grimstad, knows very well. But it's the opposition's role to address it. We want secure funding for private kindergartens and public kindergartens, and what is in the cost recovery model is that you have to have 85 pst. of the average of a public kindergarten. The municipality is obliged to pay. That money is paid to the municipality in the discretionary grant, and if you get too little money here, you have to pay for it. In addition, there are other sources of income than this. So we see that this model has weaknesses, but at the same time, the option is not given immediately. I record with great satisfaction that very many kindergartens that are being established are private. The whole 70 pst. of the large expansion last year was private kindergartens, which means that most kindergartens believe that this model, after all, despite its weaknesses, provides predictability and security. As many people have been involved in today's debate, we spend a record billion kroner on the kindergarten sector for next year – more than 18 billion kroner, as far as I remember on the move, and that is 12 to 14 billion dollars more than just a few years back. It shows that, on the part of society, we are now betting on kindergartens to an extent that our society has never done before, and that is positive. Let me end by saying that the private contribution to getting these high numbers is absolutely crucial and essential. We are in good dialogue with the private kindergartens and their organisations to find out, if necessary, which direction to change. But as I said, this is a little bit more demanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1078	In the case of kindergartens, it's a great pleasure to be part of one of the parties that our red-green government has assumed. It makes me both happy and proud that we have a government that doesn't just want anything, but actually does something that's noticed by everyone, whether they live in a big city in the central east, or whether they live in a small district municipality in North Norway. Think when we get to the next big shot in 2009. Then there is no one – and I mean no one – who talks about getting full babysitting, because it is completely unnecessary. It is complete – or to use another's word: see, it's complete. We've made a historic effort, and we've reached the goal that, among other things, we in SV have been talking about for 40 years – full child care coverage. Now we have to move on, and we have to set new goals, and then we have to set all the cloths to reach them. It is mainly about achieving a high quality level of content in all kindergartens, and then the price has to be lowered to a level so low that no one is left out because of the price of a nursery place. This is actually one of the best steps taken to achieve social cohesion and to integrate all children, regardless of culture and background – teach them what it means to live in a Norwegian society, and teach them Norwegian culture and history. Then there is another subject that has been mentioned in today's debate, and that is child protection. It is a great cross of thought that we, who live in one of the richest countries in the world, have created a society in which many children have a daily life where they do not have safe care people around them, and they have to lie down crying and lonely in an insecure context. My family and I have been working in the field of child protection for a number of years, and what is happening now, among other things. in the last year, is a major power struggle between private and public child protection institutions and child protection bodies. It is a struggle for money, where power and money are at the centre, while children suffer unnecessarily and become victims. This must be done immediately. It is a mockery of the children who have the heaviest and most difficult to be the losers in this fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1089	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1092	It shall be accompanied by a brief note. I want to thank Kari Lise Holmberg for his excellent contributions on Ibsen. As the President is aware, Skien has a lot of child-sitting about conveying Ibsen. That's why I think it was very nice that she took that post here, and that's how to build bridges between these two important fields, which you have to see in context. When it comes to May Hansen's comment on cash support and immigrants, she has to excuse me: it becomes a bit strange reasoning when you say that the immigrants can't afford not to take the cash support, and then they would get out better if you took away the cash support. No matter how you turn it around and turn it around – if you move the cash support to a public offer like a kindergarten, you also take away the freedom of choice that lies there. When you come back to it repeatedly just in relation to immigrants, I think you should also take with you the human perspective that I've had in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1101	The representative of May Hansen has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1104	When the representative from the Right does not answer my question, I expect that it might have been an accident that the Right is in touch with that remark. Furthermore, I would like to say to the National Council of the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality that I am very pleased with the job done by the Government towards children who have been subjected to sexual abuse and violence. There are many, many good measures going on, and we had a good interpellation debate here, which was raised by the Left, which took this up with men and boys in relation to sexual abuse. Now there's a mapping that I think is very important for us to put numbers in place and see where we're going to put different measures. I forgot to say it during the interpellation debate, but would like to take it up now and challenge the Council of State to whether disabled people, who are a large group who are subject to abuse to a much greater extent than others, can become one of the themes of that survey.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1111	Let me first start by recording the proposals of the left. I was so involved in the matter when I kept my main post, that I forgot to take up the suggestions. It's a matter of course that makes me sign again, and it's about single minor asylum seekers. We have also put forward a proposal in this regard, so there can be no doubt about the main priorities of the Left. What surprises me is that the Council of State said that there are certain ways to make matters public. Yes, of course. One of the most important ways is to present them in the state budget. The fact that a government budget is presented, because then a few weeks later to stand in the spontaneous question hour here and say that this is not well enough figured out, we need time, because then three days after putting proposals into the Storting on behalf of the government parties on the same matter, I am even more concerned. It's a procedure for the weakest, which shows that here it's more important to point out that you're doing something than to get a real job done. We've seen so many times you've pushed these in front of you, and they've been used. Now it is important that they get a real offer that we are sure is professionally good enough. I have no mistrust of any of those who work in child protection. I also think that they work a lot to increase their skills in a number of areas, but this – the everyday they meet here – is a everyday life that is much tougher and different from the many meetings that work with Norwegian children, sailing if that everyday day can also be experienced toughly. So I agree with the intention of what the government is doing. I'm concerned that this is going to be done really, but I'm actually willing to bear the burden of saying that we're waiting a few months to get it done really, and I'm worried when the council can't bear that burden. SV has not been in government before, and it is probably fun to get through such decisions, but I think the most important thing is that we are sure that those who get the task are able to do it, both economically and professionally. I'd like to be part of that skill, but I'm also willing to take the kangaroo here in the hall for that skill to be done in a proper way, and that the kids are actually being treated in a proper way. SV can get so angry and knock as hard with the doors they just want, but that's actually the result at the bottom that matters. It's actually that this is actually being done in a proper way, which means something. It's these kids that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1122	No more have asked for the word to be given to the field 2. The main thrust is the debate on the 3rd framework area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1127	I would also like to thank the Committee on Cooperation on this budget line. It has been an intense work with many useful recordings. This year's cultural budget is essentially a good one, with many cultural purposes increasing. Christian People's Party supports the main profile, but proposes changes at some points. The government is proposing to cut out the scheme with the addition of local music actions, the LOK scheme. This arrangement has been a very important source of funding for many voluntary concert organisers across the country. Although the subsidies have been relatively small, the LOK funds have in most places triggered additional resources in the form of funds from municipalities, sponsors and ticket receipts. The voluntary organisations in the field of music have signalled the desire to manage the funds. I am therefore disappointed that the Government does not listen to the grassroots in this matter, and together with the other opposition parties, the Christian People's Party proposes to transfer the LOK funds to Norwegian Music Council, Norwegian Jazz Forum, Norwegian Rock Association and Norwegian Folkemusik- and Dance Teams in cooperation with the National Team for Players. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to keep track of both the number of district bookstores and the range of bookstores in the districts. Many district book handlers work hard to keep track of the operation itself and of a wide range of bookstores. The Christian People's Party would therefore like to see a test scheme with added value – a so-called width contribution – for a limited number of bookshops in the districts. We have therefore asked the Government to consider such a wide-ranging contribution to prevent the disappearance of district bookshops. A wide-ranging contribution will help to keep regional bookshops operational and will enable customers to benefit from a wider range of literature in their local bookstores. Voluntary teams and organisations make a major social effort and mean a great deal to the quality of life of many people. Efforts by teams and organisations have also been groundbreaking in the development of important institutions in several areas of society, not least in the field of humanitarian care, welfare and knowledge dissemination. Christian People's Party strengthens voluntary sector and, among others, children and young people’s local cultural activity of 7.9 million. kr in its alternative state budget, in addition to increasing the tax deduction limit for donations to voluntary organisations from NOK 12000 to NOK 15000. The library was recently handed over to the government council Trond Giske. A consolidation of the libraries is proposed in the distribution. We have many small libraries with limited resources. A total of 244 municipalities have one or fewer annual works in the library. Resources are public libraries at the bottom level of the Nordic region. But even in the smallest municipalities, users are different when it comes to interests and needs. The library therefore needs broad competence. It is therefore proposed in the 2014 Library Reform that municipalities should cooperate on units that should have at least six annual works. At the same time, the library must be preserved as the local meeting place. I hope that the Council of State will take care of it. In the big news about archives, libraries and museums, which were processed six years ago, a back-up arrangement for the preservation of private archives was outlined. Such a scheme must be put in place as soon as possible. Future history must be based on sources other than those of state, municipality and state. The museum reform is based on a monthly increase in fresh money every year. There is no government in the 2007 budget. This may mean that work on the reform will be further delayed. The Christian People's Party has proposed to strengthen the national museum network by 5 million. kr. Such an increase would have been a handshake to many museums as labored with consolidation. Musea has an important role to play in the social debate by resuming both social conflicts and unpleasant stories in time. Example of this is the back of the medal that is called industrial development, i.e. environmental problems in the wake of industrialism, not only in the form of damage to the environment and pollution, but also unfortunate aspects of the working environment, such as health damage and accidents at work. It is also important to document cultural and cultural developments related to our new countrymen. Cultural tolerance training has been used if the role the museum can play in this field. The Christian People's Party proposed in its alternative budget and in the financial setting to increase the cultural effort by 19.4 million. In addition to the Government's draft budget. In addition, the Christian People's Party proposes some minor redeployments within Framework Area 3. If the Christian People's Party had had an impact on its budget, one would have increased both the cultural framework and important priorities. The Christian People's Party has, through comments, referred to what we stood for in the financial position, as well as proposals for redispatching within the attached framework. We've had a positive impact on increased investment at the Nynorsk Cultural Centre and state grants to the Protest Festival. We are very pleased about this. The money will go for a very good purpose. Otherwise, I take up the proposals that the Christian People's Party has set up, or to which we are co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1153	The representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1158	I have a short question for the Christian People's Party and the representative Molvær Grimstad, and it goes on a voluntary basis. The Christian People's Party, as the government party, has a great commitment to volunteering, but looks at history, unfortunately the Christian People's Party in government has participated in both the important Free Fund scheme, which goes directly to children and young people, and in study associations to the voluntary organizations, which are also a very, very important offer around in Voluntary Norway. Now, the Christian People's Party is referring to its budget proposal for a stronger commitment to volunteering in these areas as well. Is this a course change from the Christian People's Party that we can trust? Can we be sure that the Christian People's Party also has a clear profile of volunteering in the coming budgets and supports the Government in strengthening the voluntary sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1171	The Christian People's Party has always been occupied by the voluntary sector, and so will we always be in the future. What Mr Sande intends to do in connection with the previous year's budget is among others: Free fund, which was easy. What happened at Stortinget with the change of the key, introduced the Freefonds scheme significantly more available funds. The funds for the scheme were so increasing, even though the government budget was escalating. In total, Freefond received more resources as a result of a change of key. But I am pleased that, when we have now dealt with the budget, we have been able to propose an additional increase in the Free Fund, because we know that a major work is being done for children and young people. So sometimes there will be some difficult balances in the priorities, with which the representative Sande has become well aware when he now represents a government party. There is not always one that can get in bag and bag, and therefore must weigh important priorities. Throughout, I could have taken the whole Christian People's Party for its alternative budget, where we show that we have had and will have a strong focus on volunteering, but it takes too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1180	I hear what the representative of the Christian People's Party says that they will always have a great commitment to voluntary teams and organisations, despite the fact that they have thus removed the Free Fund from the budget. When Freefond was increased within the key, it was conditional on not touching the budget. But that's not what I wanted to ask. The question is about voluntary organisations and income losses from slot machines. How has the Christian People's Party thought – and then it's not possible to spend money over and over again and over – to finance and help the voluntary teams and organisations they're betting on when they lose billions of dollars to their organizations?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1187	We know that there are many thousands in Norway who have problems with gambling addiction. We know that there are many major social problems and suffering for the 70 000 that an estimated player has gambling problems in Norway. Then the Christian People's Party has said that it is not the gambling addicts who can fund the voluntary sector. When we see how many social problems have been caused by automated machines, there is a need to find other means of income for voluntary organisations. This is why we are proposing that the Government come back with some clarifications about other ways that voluntary organisations can secure their income. We have proposed to increase the tax deduction on gifts to voluntary organisations from NOK 12 000 to NOK 15 000 for next year's budget, which can be part of and strengthen volunteering in one way, but I think we need to think quite broadly and be creative in many areas to ensure volunteering. Then there will be some areas where the volunteer organizations work today, which the government should be doing and provide more supplements.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1192	The representative of the Christian People's Party is concerned that the Government does not follow up the ABM message. The target was to implement the plan in five years from the start, between 2001 and 2005. However, the escalation was not started until a year later, in 2002. Implementation over five years would still mean that the escalation had been completed, but it was only in this period added 209 million. kr. On the part of the previous government, this race was about half-driving, and it becomes a bit problematic to deal with the criticism that is coming now, for this government is now trying to escalate its efforts here and take back the lag that lies with the previous government, which had a minister of culture from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1197	The Christian People's Party had an active and committed minister of culture, and in many areas there was a significant investment in culture and in the ABM sector. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government as it is now will follow up the ABM message. The government has also created expectations that she will come with significant funds in this area, and if one were to follow this according to how far one would have come, I think we would all wish we had come even further. Based on the signals given by the new government in the ABM sector, the Christian People's Party expected that when there was a good increase in the cultural budget, for which the Government is to have all the credit, there was more funding for the ABM sector than it was actually done for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1202	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1205	The time of the celebrations is over, at least the celebrations that remained words. Culture has been given a lot of nice words over time, but in competition with other policy areas, culture has lost its way in the past. This is turned around. The opposition's reference from the government's first time on missing matters has been silenced. We have a government and a minister who delivers. Culture is about to enter the first division of politics, a clear budget winner, with an increase of nearly half a billion dollars. This is just the first step. By 2014 1 pst. of the State budget for cultural purposes. The cultural promise is on track. Culture and art give us experiences, recognition and meaning, unrest, reflections, belongings and ambitions for the future. A diversity of artistic expressions and experiences makes society and the lives of individuals richer. Ensuring good conditions for creating, disseminating and making available art is the development of democracy. This budget represents a commitment for many cultural purposes that has been fed to hunger in the past. There are stronger bets and increases for volunteering, music, theatre and dance, opera, visual arts, art dissemination, language and literature, museums, national cultural buildings and an adventurous initiative in film and media. But the cultural promise is about more: It is about giving status to culture and recognising the importance of art to the quality of life of individuals. It is about recognising the importance of art and culture as a driving force in the critical societal debate, as a driving force in urban and regional development. In Oslo, the Opera itself is the engine in the development of an entirely new city. It is about recognising the economic importance of art and culture as a source of activity and jobs. It is the cultural promise, a significant policy area, with the need for a cultural law that underlines public responsibility for ensuring the availability and diversity of cultural services across the country. In order to unleash the great nutritional potential that exists within the cultural field, more people must be able to live by their art. It is therefore important to ensure the rights of authors and practitioners, while at the same time strengthening the working conditions of artists. The existence of structures that support the activities of practitioners is essential — therefore support for purchasing systems, venues, local organisers, festivals, festival transport, manuscripts and programme development. With such structures, they can flower a thousand flowers. With the cultural promise, we will create and facilitate the diversity of culture. Both the globalised world and multicultural Norway give us challenges in this way. We need to meet the global unification of the US market-based cultural dominance – a right that must be actively met with a diversity policy. We need to create meeting places that help to preserve our cultural heritage, while getting inspiration and learning from new and unknown cultural expressions. In connection with the 100th anniversary of Henrik Ibsen, Peer Gynt – the symbol of our cultural heritage – was shown in Egypt in the scenes of the world's cultural heritage: the pyramids and the sphinx. This prompts reflection and reflection. Ibsen’s authorship – our cultural heritage – came under the influence of European cultural trends and in encounters with other continents. Art and culture are constantly evolving. What is new today can be the cultural heritage of tomorrow. Such reflections should be involved in our work on the further development of culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1241	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1244	When the Workers' Party was in opposition, in the previous period, we had a good and close cooperation on film, where we agreed on a number of points to go in front of and work against. The Progress Party is now promoting a proposal in the current position to support a tax incentive scheme to attract foreign film productions to Norway. Why is it that the Labour Party does not support this now, but did it in the previous period, when we had this collaboration on film?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1251	If you look at the current budget, you will see that there is a strong commitment and a strong commitment to the film industry and film production in Norway. But we want a review of how we can best develop the film area in Norway, before we start up the major instruments and structural changes in the field of organisation. This is why a sample has been set up that has also made its proposal for the development of the film sector. It will be consulted and the Ministry will present a communication on Norway’s future cinematographic activities. And in this regard, we will have plenty of opportunity to discuss both the question that the representative here mentions, and many more.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1256	I have noted the representative's panegyrian interpretations of what a fantastic amount of money is now flowing into cultural life. She's got a long way to go right in that. Once we've heard the council here on previous occasions, there's no way how much of the municipal funds will flow into cultural life. And of course, that's great. But does the representative see that this might also do something about cultural life itself? Does the representative see that there may be a problem that the focus of cultural life is gradually only focused on the fact that there will be more and more and more money – half a billion this year, half a billion to next year, and perhaps even more so, if you're going to follow the pace? Governments often talk about arm's length distance principle. I seem to note that the Council of State's arms are getting shorter, and I wonder if perhaps the Workers' Party might also look like a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1266	I think what you see now, half a billion dollars – which is a lot of money, as the representative says – is a necessary injection into an area that has been hungry for many, many years. But the ambitions of the Cultural Promise are far beyond that. Among other things, it is about, in the same way as in other policy areas, seeing a combination of market, political governance and policy making. That is what lies in the further development of the cultural promise. That is what is involved in facilitating culture and art as a food supply, but it assumes that the artists have the opportunity to live by their art. It assumes that there are structures that will facilitate the development of this industry, including this policy area. That's what the government grant is about now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1273	Both I and the representative Hildeng represent Oslo, and the representative Hildeng boasted in the Newspaper yesterday about the importance of the cultural initiative for Oslo. I'm going to come back to that in another way. But I want to ask a question that concerns the things that Britt Hildeng has been very committed to in the past, namely the multicultural perspective and vision of Snelda, a cultural island in Oslo, which is also linked to things that she has had a great commitment to before, namely the opera and the opera community, which is an important challenge for Oslo. The Council of State has been a little elusive, but I hope that an Oslo representative has a commitment to this. So my question to the representative Hildeng is whether she has faith in this project, whether she thinks it's exciting for Oslo, and whether she thinks it's something we can work together to realize as an important part of the vision of culture for Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1282	We are now in agreement in the committee, where we express a positive attitude towards Snelda. Snelda is very exciting – a small island that is the result of cutting through the Bjørvika tunnel. That island offers opportunities to maybe build a multicultural cultural center. Many are interested in it. In the Municipality of Oslo, the representative stands Skei Grande's own party and the party I represent, together to provide project funding for the development of this idea. So let's develop it. Let's look at the possibilities to realize this. I think it is exciting, but the necessary steps must be taken to arrive at a final assessment of whether we can get it done or not. I have faith in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1289	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1292	Then we have come to the annual cultural debate and the time of the celebrations, which can quickly become both a reprisal and a greeting to most people, not to mention – as we have just heard – a praise of the cultural promise and cultural law and the cultural commitment of the red-green parties. But I'm not taking that debate right now. The reason for that is that it doesn't do the little culture either. They just nod and smile and are satisfied with the niche giving them. It's Christmas soon, must know. What we in the Progress Party want to focus on is the fact that we have now become the leader in Norwegian cultural policy. We've gone from being a party that reportedly had no cultural policy, to becoming a party that starts the debates that count. There have been slit meters of fissile meters of debate around our cultural policy, and we appreciate that very much. Because unlike the other games, we've tried to give priority. There are probably some different cultural actions where you don't appreciate our priorities, but that's always the way it is. What is positive is that the others now recognise that the Progress Party actually has a cultural policy that will probably still provoke, but also engage in, the cultural sector. The councils have not impressed us with the innovation in the field of culture. There were probably great expectations that it would now become a cultural promise. But what happened was that many of the politically correct measures got money, while others went home disappointed. And nothing particularly new has happened either, other than a small cultural law of four paragraphs that are now being consulted, and that voluntary teams and organisations have lost some of their income. It may seem as if I want to criticize the Council of States, but one thing I will not criticize him for, namely his choice of friends and the way he stands straight and defends his friendship. I think the Council of State should be commended for that. But in the meantime, we are waiting and hoping that something will actually happen within the field of culture. We've done our job to get the debate going. We have put forward proposals for a cannon that fell on stone floor. This despite the fact that more and more countries are stockpiling their own. Recently the U.S. made a list of the world's most significant men, and then there will soon be a women's list, I think. Norwegian Literature Festival, which is supported by the state, will create a literary canon. It's going to be very exciting to see how this is to be selected and prioritised, because this has been so difficult for the government and government parties. I, in connection with the cannon, would like to quote commentator Steinar Brox, who writes: ‘The world has suddenly turned its head around. Frp is in favour of cultural planning policy; the others are in favour of liberalist market policy. In most contexts, there is in fact a demand for guidance, and without such norms, it is also not possible to say what is good or bad, true or false.’ He also writes in the chronicle, "In fact, Frp took the other parties on the bed." And we are very proud of that! This was the more general part of the article. Now I want to move on to the various areas which the Progress Party has given priority to, and which we believe it is important that we focus on. First to the museums: there's been a lot of promise here, just you consolidated. The VAT compensation that there has been so much talk about in the year that went on is missing, which makes it difficult even for consolidated museums to get the opportunity to further develop. Only a small degree of discretion in the case of museums: I heard the other day that there is only one – I repeat: only one – textile conservator in Norway who can take in apprentices. What happens next? Who will make sure to train new ones? We have a fantastic collection of textiles around Norway. Who will secure them for the posterity? My point is that we need to ensure the proper operation of the museums, and we need to make sure that there is both interest and competence. We're doing this by strengthening the field. Like our museums, the archives also have a unique role in the story of our country. There are many good archives, both small and large, both public and private, and it is amazing how much local history and history of national interest exist there. The Progress Party proposes to build a fund to enable the archives to digitise what they possess from valuable material. I recently saw a report at NRK about a photo archive in Bergen which unfortunately did not have very good conditions, and which was not very well fireproof either. It was almost thanks to a few, engaged people that it has not been lost a long time ago. And this probably isn't the only thing in its own battle. It is of great importance that we take care of this part of our cultural heritage and also safeguard it for the future. The Progress Party shall promote proposals for two different cultural funds in addition to the Archiving Fund. We believe targeted funds provide good and verifiable results. Firstly, we are proposing the creation of a fund for voluntary and participating cultural activities. We believe that the many amateurs involved in culture should also get better status. Specialised, professional culture for the few does not necessarily give a rich cultural life, but it does the culture where people participate themselves. We think it's the width we get the most for the heads. The Progress Party believes that the voluntary and participating culture may not be the one giving the big headlines and the great prestige, but that it is, however, the amateur culture that gives the most joy and experience in the many communities. We believe it is important that the valuable local amateur culture is given a safe and stable framework. That is why we want to set up this fund. The Fund’s return should be targeted specifically at activities for children. The second fund we want to set up is a fund for cooperation between cultural enterprises and private businesses. In the context of the Storting's treatment of cultural and industrial communications, all parties expressed views of art and cultural activities as good business. On the basis of such views, the Party wishes to facilitate the development of viable and creative cultural activities. We are very pleased that the other bourgeois parties this year supported our proposal for such a fund. Unfortunately, this time only the Progress Party has found money for the fund. But we hope that the other bourgeois parties and the socialist government parties will follow us, in a year or two, when the idea has matured. The Fund shall provide opportunities for cooperation between cultural and private enterprises. Here it's important to see the great potential that lies at the intersection of creative souls and the others. In fact, both sides are potentially both donors and recipients of skills, ideas and help. As you can see, we have a plan of what we're doing, which is targeted, but which also dares to claim both for practitioners and for the use of government dollars. You could say, and that also shows the curiosity and commitment of media and cultural life to our cultural policy, that the Progress Party in its cultural project has succeeded so far. I would like to address the proposals of the Progress Party and the proposals in which we are co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1342	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1347	In its Document No: 8 proposals to create a cultural canon have several reasons for the Progress Party. One of the most eye-catching and very suspicious is formulated as follows: ‘The debate will give people a better understanding of what is Norwegian culture and of the border between Norwegian and foreign culture.’ This is very confusing. Isn't it that our foremost artists, like Munch and Ibsen, just got so big because they got challenged and inspired by the stranger? And is it not that today we have a cultural life that can be both local and local and at the same time global, and that all art is growing in contact with just the stranger? In such a perspective, the representative Woldseth must be able to answer the following important questions: How does the Progress Party believe that the Norwegian must be in order for us to be able to distinguish it from the foreign, which the Progress Party therefore believes should be a main objective with a cannon?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1359	Unlike the government parties, we dare at least to call Norwegian culture Norwegian. In the debate referred to by the representative Knutsen, the government parties call Norwegian culture ‘so-called Norwegian culture’. That's exactly the tradition and legacy we've been given, we're worried about. Of course, we know that Munch, Ibsen and several other artists have been abroad and let themselves be influenced there, and that someone even wrote great works there. But that's not where they were when they wrote the works, which makes it part of our cultural heritage, but it's the fact that a Norwegian writer has written a work that is worth caring for, which makes it a cultural heritage for us. That's the center of this. That is why we proposed this because we believe that Norwegian culture must be safeguarded. We understand that when we hear the government parties call Norwegian culture ‘so-called Norwegian culture’ – which worries me much more.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1364	There was a point at this with the cultural cannon that made me ask for a line. That's right, as the Progress Party says. The Progress Party has raised a number of debates. An important point in those debates seems to me to have been a constant attack on something the Progress Party calls the elite. It's about people who presumptuously have knowledge, insight and competence, who actually work with a subject over time, and who set standards for what you think is good, and what you think is less good. It has systematically distanced the Progress Party from, and on many occasions the claim is an impossible exercise. In the context of a cultural canon, we must suddenly have standards. Then all of a sudden, we're going to separate the cloth from the wheat. Then all of a sudden we're going to say what's good, what's not good, and what's the foremost work. It might be interesting to hear the representative Woldseth elaborate a little bit if she thinks that there are norms in cultural life, if you can distinguish well from bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1373	Now I didn't think we should continue the debate on a cannon. But in the case of culture, there is a group of cultural experts, as the representative Thommess says quite correctly. It's just that this elite wants more or less in the different sectors to decide what we should think is good and what we should think is bad. That's exactly what we don't want. We want people to be part of and influence what is going to be our cultural heritage, of course, by competent people putting up a list, and then people can rank the works according to their wishes and needs. The winner wins. We still don't want the elite to sit and pick out what's best for us. We are skeptical that the power within culture is gathered on very few hands, and that they sit with different hats in different regimes and contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1378	It is clear that the Progress Party has a cultural policy. They define it themselves as a cultural policy for people most. It should not be chosen by a snout elite, nor should politicians decide what people want. The Progress Party drastically cuts in several fields within the cultural budget and supports other measures, often contrary to long, good Norwegian traditions, on which the representative was involved in his previous post. For example, the Progress Party has: Dramatic cut of Sami cultural actions, actions under the Norwegian Culture Council, actions under the Norwegian press, postage aid and national institutions – here the Progress Party will finance more parts of the operation with increased ticket revenue. How democratic is this? How does the Progress Party know that this is what most people want when you do not have democratic processes around this? This is really a political selection of the cultural activities to be pursued.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1388	I actually think that the representative May Hansen has read this with a little bit of wrong glasses. What we want is for people to get what they want. It must be the most democratic way of doing this, not for anyone to sit in the Council of Culture or in other governmental bodies and decide on different factors, mostly subjective ones, who should be included in purchasing arrangements, what to buy in to museums, etc. In the case of Sami measures, it is actually the case that together have their own cultural resources in the Sameting, so that it will be twice as soon as we have to grant it from here. In addition, we want everyone to search the same line, and you don't want any special measures for the group.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1395	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1398	This year's cultural budget is – measured in money – a good budget. The right-hand side, with the exception of the press support, follows the Government's proposal almost all the way. In addition, we find 50 million in our alternative budget. NOK that we're adding to some priority areas, which I'm sure will come within. Action on culture is important. The expression of cultural life forms an increasingly large part of our lives. Quality and diversity in cultural life are an important part of the overall quality of life that we all have. In a global society, where international culture is becoming increasingly popular, it is very important that as a nation, we have an offensive and living cultural life that enables us to meet international expressions in a good way, a way that makes us grow on the cultural impact we have. The right considers that the market is important and diverse, but we also recognise the restriction of the market, especially in a small country like ours, where the ability to pay in narrow niches is weakened. We therefore believe that a targeted public commitment to quality and diversity in cultural life is necessary. The Government’s budget is committed within a broad range — a general and broad cultural promise, as announced. However, it is difficult to see any actual program beyond the general one. We have to expect that now and in the years to come, we will stick to business as usual – more of it. The right believes that a bet on the cultural field should have followed a different and clearer course. Although the Right believes it is right to spend public money on culture, we are constantly concerned that cultural life should maintain a high level of integrity. We are concerned that cultural life is not subject to public wishes and needs, not directly as a decision or as a requirement, but on the basis of the wishes and objectives that we, as politicians, put forward, and that, as a result, cultural life may easily seek out because it is the money that is being collected from us. The right is concerned that there is a relatively small number of decision-makers who together can quickly form a dominant sense of taste, or at least dominant views on what is good and what should be prioritised. Public funding can become the only focus, and cultural organisations are characterised by being a clandestine body for those who offer the most. Governments often come back to the arm’s length distance principle, and they have also announced that they will take a close-to-one settlement between case handlers and artists, for example. The Cultural Council. In other words, he sees the problem, but gives no signal to take a real settlement with the problem, actually do something about it. With as much money between hands as the Minister of Culture has, and probably will have the next few years, he should do some more basic work to ensure diversity and to raise contributors to cultural life where new decision-makers are involved. Such contributors should be private actors, or actors may be at the extreme of the public. In this budget, the Right signals that a good place to start would be to get on the legs of a cultural and business organisation. We've also repeated that in the past, but we won't surrender until it becomes a fact. We think of an organization to a significant extent by the pattern of the English. In our opinion, the Forum for Culture and Business is a place to start. There is an important sprout that could develop further into such a forum. But it's far in the relationship between what's today's activity in the Forum for Culture and Business, and what has to be the ambitions of the organisation we're talking about. So if we are to do this, it has to be a real boost and an expressed political will – wherever you want and whatever you want. The right has proposed to strengthen operations several times in addition to the Government’s proposals to give the Forum on Culture and Business a boost and an opportunity to grow. In addition, we will add an amount to concrete project development, the aim being for private contributors to contribute, for example. a half. If there's going to be any turn on this, we have to start with a couple of tens of millions to explore the terrain. The Ministry of Culture should take such an initiative. Later, the Ministry of Economic Affairs should also take part, because this will also be a significant issue in the field of industrial development. Then maybe we'll see the sprouts of an organization that can live and mean a lot for Norwegian cultural life, and that can be a competent cultural and business organization, regardless of Innovation Norway. But also within the public sphere, or in close proximity to it, there is the possibility of taking action to recruit new decision-makers. One could cultivate Norwegian cultural councils, and that's perhaps what it's working on, even though I have to say that the grips that have been done so far are not exactly oozing of success. It was possible to restore 74 posts to the ministry, to make a state competence visible – a socialist government council should like it. One could continue to work to self-restrain and strengthen bodies such as the North Norwegian Cultural Council instead of making fun of them. And to look at the growth from below, you could also strengthen producer training, and create entrepreneurs in the cultural field. As far as the free groups are concerned, the government is doing a good job of setting up a new system for free groups, the so-called Jo Stroemgren post. The thought is good. The right supports it, and we will support it in the future. In addition, we signal the desire for growth within this field through a series of additions to a number of different groups and ensembles. The government has signalled a year of cultural diversity, and it has fallen into the trap of making this a debate between the government parties and the Progress Party on cultural canon and cultural heritage, which we have been discussing here. The right is concerned that culture is something that grows from below. And when we talk about diversity, it could be everything from sloping and knighting to the expressions our new countrymen bring with them. The Year of Manifestance must be about meeting between them. It must be about meeting between cultures and a general climate of diversity, not just a group, but not just an integration action. We believe it is important to strengthen the initiatives that come from below within the culture of immigration. We want to strengthen agencies like Nordic Black Theater, Cosmopolite, Mela, Utrop and others. It is important to take care of your own initiatives, not to construct superstructures or to make decisions. We also want to take care of the cultural heritage, and we believe it is important to follow up the museum reform. Unfortunately, the museum reform has gone a little crazy. There should be a stronger commitment here. The same applies to the archive field, which is now under way and which should be taken seriously. With regard to the field of the intangible part of cultural heritage, folk music, folk music and craftsmanship, the Right is also a little surprised that, in particular, folk music came out so badly within the great promise that was now, in relation to the other co-conspiratorial comrades. As far as the field of craftsmanship is concerned, there is a need to take a roof, and I hope that the Minister of Culture will take a challenge. With regard to the maintenance of our crafts, there are several departments. The Ministry of Knowledge has the grant scheme, the Ministry of the Environment has everything that is related to cultural memory protection, and the Ministry of Culture should just take care of coordination to enable Norwegian craft development to develop further and do a targeted job to support our crafts. In conclusion, I would like to say that we are also looking forward to the big message about non-governmental organisations. It is important to put in place good framework conditions for this field. In particular, it is important to focus on the effective availability of the voluntary register for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1434	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1437	I would like to ask a question about a theme on which the representative spent little time, naturally, in his article. It's about right's proposal to cut the press support by 151 million. kr overnight. So the total right-hand side is going to take away 60 pst. of the support that ensures that we have a wide selection of newspapers across the country, and the consequence will be that in a short time the very most of these newspapers will face the safe death. In the representative Thommessen and my home country, Oppland, there will be three newspapers, Vigga, Fjuken and Døl, and for the rest of the country there will be 137 other newspapers that, with the right's proposal, will be dropped next year. In the budget, Right has nothing to do with any other device in the use of these funds, no money for alternative forms of support, and no other thing that would be involved in a lack of newspapers, both geographically and in terms of content and value anchoring. Original right wants to cut further 100 million. The budget would have an even greater impact. My question is therefore whether Right feels well that next year the party will deposit 140 newspapers over the quite country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1442	First of all, that won't be the consequence of what we're doing. Secondly, press support is a very good picture of a complete antiquarian media policy that the Government stands for. This scheme was introduced in the 1960s, when there were almost two newspapers in all small cities. Since then, the newspapers have disappeared as dew for the sun, even if you have east press support at all ends. What this type of scheme does is freeze a structure that contributes to the lack of media migration. In these days, in the technological development we are now in, the media area needs considerable vitalization. Instead of investing in press support, ownership laws and other regulatory and obstructive instruments, as the government does, Norwegian newspapers should be able to change to tomorrow's demand to become a media house. That is when we guarantee freedom of expression, which is the fundamental principle of all media policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1449	The representative Thommessen lacks an idea or a course in cultural policy. That's something I share with him. That is why I am surprised that the Right’s contribution to this year’s budget position is – in addition to a scrapping of the press support – a mere blue copy of what the Government itself is presenting. Now it's not that bad in itself, because that means that the right has increased the amount of money by x million dollars. And they do, of course, because in their budget they haven't brought back the tax we have removed. About $8 billion has been available to the Right this year that they wouldn't have had if they had continued with the Bondevik II government. Then it's nice that the Right also finds that they can let it grow a bit on culture. What we're doing is we're following the cultural promise. When the cultural promise came, the representative Thommessen's spontaneous comment was that it was populist overbidden policy. Now we see that the right has a blue copy of our budget. Does this mean that the Right now is pursuing a populist policy of surrender?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1456	No, and I do not recognize myself in that description either. I think I've been pretty rough, both with the government council and with the government parties, when it comes to showing that we think it's right to bet on culture. And we do that because social development is asking for it. It is important for Norwegian society that we promote culture. When I ask for the lack of direction, it's because I think there's a completely unquestionable angle in how to inject funds into the cultural area, in relation to the focus of cultural life. So it's going to be half a billion dollars this year. It's a huge amount. Governments have also talked about municipal funds. There will be half a billion next year and half a billion – and perhaps more – the year after that. It surprises me that you don't see this doing anything about cultural life, that cultural life can be transformed into the purest quadruple corps, and become too close to the ministry. Another course will be to bet on other structures. That is why I believe that structural issues need to be addressed, so that private and other public contributions can be mobilised.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1465	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1468	Culture is important for individuals, for interaction and for development. Culture integrates, improves quality of life, provides better health and is important to our identity. Cultural policy must be given greater attention and must be integrated into our overall policy, both locally and centrally. This government has taken cultural policy seriously. It increases the cultural budget by nearly half a billion dollars from 2006 to 2007. This is a record in the Norwegian context. Norwegian cultural life flourishes and grows as never before. It's incredibly fun to be part of this important promise, which means a stepping up of cultural resources to 1 pst. by the State budget in 2014. I'm glad we have a government council and a government that keeps what we promised in the election campaign. The government recently announced St.meld. No 17 for 2005-2006, 2008 as the year for the identification of cultural diversity. The labelling shall be part of an overall strategy development to promote cultural diversity in the cultural sector. Norway has also joined a democratic cultural policy with a view to promoting national and international cultural diversity through international declarations, such as the UNESCO Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity and the Council of Europe Declaration on Cultural Diversity. Our common cultural reference base as a nation is of fundamental importance to our identity as individuals and as people. That is why cultural diversity and its commitment are so important. I look forward to the Year of Mangfold 2008. SV will stress the importance of focusing on the gender and gender perspective in Norwegian cultural life. That's what this government is doing. It is difficult for women to get assignments after a certain age, and it is difficult to get into some studies. The gender perspective within films is a good example. Participation of both sexes in artistic and cultural expressions is right and necessary for future Culture Norway. Gender equality should be explained in the various cultural-Norway establishments and measures should be taken to prevent discrimination, which is contrary to the Gender Equality Act. SV is pleased that the Government is going to come back to Stortinget with a case about the artists' living conditions, and believes that the problem of many older actors, especially women, having difficulties in getting roles at our theatres should be considered in this context, together with the gender perspective and the pension conditions. It is important for the Swedish Government to strengthen the free field and the emergence of theatre work throughout the country. The development of new Norwegian dramatics is essential for the renewal of Norwegian theatres and for strengthening the theatre as the debaters, as others have. Culture is basically an important debater in our nation. The government granted 44.1 million. kr for theatre and dance. It is also important that the field of music be strengthened, with over 64 million. kr. This is a significant boost, which will give ring-effects across the country. Voluntary activities have a high self-esteem for individuals and, in total, make a significant contribution to society, through service production and through extensive unpaid efforts. This government believes it is extremely important to bet on Freedom Norway. We are very pleased that a voluntary register is now to be established. We believe this is a measure that can simplify and red tape the government’s relationship with non-governmental organisations. The government is increasing its efforts by more than 31 million. kr for voluntary purposes. In the end, I'm going to get into one of the SV's chefs in the last period that I think the whole committee has to look forward to, in terms of cultural life. The distribution of cultural resources in relation to population in the different counties is falsified. Art and culture have better conditions in some states than others. The importance of art and culture in the community is important for increased employment, and not least for the quality of life. For this reason, a new establishment and the establishment of new artistic expressions should give priority to small-scale regions of culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1489	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1493	We have now heard that SV is very interested in supporting voluntary teams and organisations. We also know that in this context there is a loss of income for voluntary teams and organisations. The opposition — i.e. The Right, Left, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party – have put forward proposals in the budget to ensure that the age limit on slot machines is respected, and to propose that 1 pst. the profit of the game is allocated to research and information on gambling addiction. That's why I'm a little surprised when SV, which is a strong opponent of vending machines, is not at least involved in supporting these two proposals, in order to try to reduce gambling dependence.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1500	We want to do everything we can to reduce the development we've seen in gambling addiction. It is clear that the aggressive machines we have had on the market have caused this to explode. It's not like there's Freedom Norway that has got the biggest win from these vending machines. It is the market players who have received it. It's only $2 billion that has gone to Freedom Norway. We've got something inside that we're getting along with or not. It's clear that if we're told that we can have a monopoly, and these vending machines are subject to Norwegian Typing, a much, much larger part of the profits will go to Freedom Norway. But the important thing for us is, of course, that we get rid of the game problem that we've had in the last few years, that affects both children and adults. We're also concerned with Freedom Norway. We're going to provide a volunteer message, and we're going to get a volunteer register, which we think can help do better for volunteering in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1509	SV is the party, perhaps together with the Christian People's Party, which has had the highest profile with restrictions on games. In particular, the representative Lund Bergo was an active spokesman for restrictions in this area during the previous period. At the same time, we heard in the post of May Hansen that it is very important to take care of non-governmental organisations and the voluntary field in the future. We all agree on that. The question then is just the following: The government is in favour of – and I expect that SV is also a driver in that context – a ban on vending machines from 1 July next year. Then we know that there are going to be hundreds of millions, not to say billions, to the voluntary sector. How does SV think this should be compensated? And I don't mean now that they have to find something smaller, because here it's just going to be a waste. How do you think this is going to be done in the years that are coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1516	We're concerned that Volunteer Norway and non-governmental organisations have a problem. But they have known that for a while, even under the previous government, which was of the same opinion. Clearly, revenue has exploded because so many have problems with gambling addiction. This has led to great personal tragedies. I believe that the voluntary organisations also have a responsibility, and they have known over a long time that the revenues will be reduced. I have said that the Government will provide a volunteer message. I believe that many of the tasks that non-governmental organisations in Norway carry out should perhaps not be carried out. Many of those tasks I believe are the responsibility of the state. I think a message has to discuss it. An example: I tend to point out that this long coast should have a sniper driven by the state. Having said that, I think we should look at Sweden too. They have many good measures where non-governmental organisations take in money.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1525	An actual mistake, President - the previous government did not agree to a total ban on gambling.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1530	I think it is nice that the representative Hansen used so much of his contribution to talk about artistic policy, sail if SV has not been allowed to support any of the Left's proposals in this area. I want to ask the representative May Hansen a question based on the fact that she has a great social commitment. We have to view culture as part of identity building and part of having trust in groups, including those groups that are not the strongest in society. And one of the things that's amazed me the most in the setting, is the reverse operation SV has done in terms of sign language. Because in the last period we actually agreed in a rather broad note on a proposal to look at sign language as a language of our own and get a separate message about it. When the left takes this matter up again in the budget, SV no longer ends up. You have a note that you have noticed that the Councils have contact. It is reassuring that state councils have contact, but I do not know if it is reassuring enough to look at sign language as a language of their own.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1537	It is quite correct, as the left says, that this is a matter that SV has been concerned about, and will be concerned about in the future. It is very important that in our policies we make it possible for everyone in this society to participate in cultural life. And it is clear that with the efforts we now have in the cultural field in Norway, it is absolutely necessary that we have a dialogue, and that the Council of State is going into these matters. He has already said that; he says he has a dialogue. This does not just apply to deaf language. This applies to sign language. It's about cultural diversity. In many different areas, it is very important that we make it possible for everyone to participate in Norwegian cultural life, not least by facilitating the conditions of people with disabilities in cultural institutions. So this is what we're concerned about, and this is what we're working with the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1546	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1549	The cultural lift is on route. The cultural lift is on route. It could actually have been the whole article in the debate, if a wish to raise one point by this budget. It is easy for the government to spend more money on culture and volunteering than any other government has ever done. The next financial year, the increase in culture is rising to half a billion dollars – a figure we haven't talked about before when it comes to the increase in the budget in the field of culture. We're in the process of achieving the goal of 1 pst. of the State budget to go to culture by 2014. With these funds, we are strengthening the whole range of cultural areas – music, film, dance, theatre, opera, art, language and literature, voluntary sector, which many have been busy here today, museum, library, archive and much, much more. We have the possibility, because we have a government in our backs that is willing to span more than fine words and monopoly money on culture. We have a boost for the voluntary sector also in the year's budget. Some of the opposition parties have claimed that we are too backward in relation to volunteering. Of course, we aim to increase efforts in the voluntary sector further, but we are already far ahead of the previous government when it comes to the voluntary sector. While the previous government swallowed up the municipalities and thus weakened local voluntary cultural work, this government has strengthened the municipal economy. And the effort one has made in the local economy will also be reflected in the local voluntary cultural work. While the previous government cut off an arrangement such as Freefonds over the state budget, also with the support of the Progress Party, the new government has strengthened the Freefonds for the second consecutive year, thus helping to create a lot of activity for children and young people around the country. While the previous government cut dramatically in support of the study work of the volunteer organizations, this government has strengthened the post considerably. We're not going to go there. We have ambitions to focus on the voluntary sector over the coming years. The ambitions are great. It is enough to include voluntary registers and a permanent VAT compensation scheme for the voluntary sector. These are things that also voluntary sector demand, and the policy formulation that we are doing is done in cooperation with the voluntary sector. In next year's government budget, we have strengthened the voluntary work also in an interaction with the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party shares the government's commitment to the voluntary sector, and it's joyous. It reminds us of something else that is important, that we are affected by the ones we associate with. And it is gratifying that the Christian People's Party has chosen to associate with the government party a little, to strengthen its efforts in areas that are important both for the Christian People's Party and for us. Among other things, we have increased the path to the Nynorsk Cultural Centre and thus to the important work of taking care of our language diversity. Even within cultural policy, I dare say that the party of government and the Christian People's Party influence each other in a good way. Every day, exciting things happen in the cultural field around our long-range country. Hundreds of thousands of Norwegians experience culture every day, either in the form of concerts, exhibitions and sporting events or in the form of culture through the media. We go past sculptures, and then we start a little bit based on them, we hear music, and we're new to a good movie. I'm sure we're some of the people that this is part of making life richer for all of us. But cultural life of such a magnitude that we are lucky to have also demands that the community be willing to facilitate culture. This government has shown a willingness to bet on culture, and we are proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1570	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1573	It wasn't just the little whiskering of the Central Party's representative in front of the Christian People's Party here in the hall, it was the big whistle. It was almost so it went over to be sweet. We hear the representative from the Central Party talk very warmly about the voluntary sector, and in the next breath and in the next argument he says that it is because the local economy is strengthened, and when the local economy is strengthened, there will probably be cultural crowns for the voluntary sector out in the municipalities. Then my question becomes to the representative Sande: When there is a lack of maintenance of school buildings, when there is a lack of elderly care facilities, when there is a lack of much of it in the municipalities, does he think that culture is what you want to give priority to when the local economy is strengthened?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1581	We already know today about municipalities that are good at promoting culture. If the representative Woldseth and the Progress Party take a round around this country, one will see that there are good examples of municipalities that promote and prioritize culture because they have been given an increased framework. But what's interesting about Woldseth's posts is that she points to the situation in Kommune-Noreg. That situation arose with full force in the previous period, when Woldseth and the Advance Party supported the previous government's municipal arrangements, which led to what Woldseth says: cut in the care of the elderly, cut in maintenance and cut in the school. I am pleased with the lift that Regeringa has made to the local economy, and I am glad that there are good examples of how culture is also going.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1590	I'm not going to ask the representative why he has chosen not to fight for Opera Nordfjord, when all the other district operations have got so much. I'm going to ask the representative about something else that concerns me, and that should worry a former center politician. This applies to the voluntary sector. The voluntary sector is now undergoing a good deal of reforms that are in progress. One of those reforms is called voluntary register, another is called VAT compensation, and there are several. There's an investigation on the volunteer register on the table that broadly suits the big organizations. There are also a good number of other features, linked to the game policy, where the big, heavy players – the money machines among the voluntary organisations – are taken into account. My question to the representative of the Center Party is whether he is not concerned about the small district organisations, the small voluntary organisations that do not fit in with the cancer organisations, the LHL or other large, heavy organisations that have a device around them. Is the representative willing to fight for these inside the Government – for the small organisations to come to?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1599	Let me start with a little word about Opera Nordfjord. What's nice is that Opera Nordfjord now has a long way to go in planning and is ready to build a new building that also allows Opera Nordfjord to get good locations to perform the activities that they have each year. I hope the representative Trine Skei Grande will take the tour there and experience the hay stop of Opera Nordfjord, because it's really a great experience. So to the voluntary sector and to the distribution that lies ahead of the voluntary register. That is what we are taking for information, but the representative, Skei Grande, knows that it is not certain that there will be policies in this Chamber out of everything that is available for distribution. The recordings that Skei Grande comes with are important, and I think we should take them seriously when we're going to do the final job of designing this register.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1613	Had this been somewhere else, I would have said that the answer from the representative of the Central Party is bordering on the unprofessional, by talking away with very bad arguments from how the Center Party will provide funding for the voluntary sector, despite the fact that with the other hand they slowly suffocate them by taking away from them the surplus. It is quite right, as the representative of the Left says, that it is the ten major humanitarian organisations that the Ministry will secure, while all the thousands of voluntary local teams and organisations will lose their income. It is not possible to blame the Progress Party, when they themselves have completely different solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1618	We are concerned with ensuring a good framework for the voluntary sector. Good framework conditions are guaranteed through e.g. a good community economy, through a good free-funding system, which we have strengthened, and which the Progress Party failed and reduced. The voluntary sector will lose revenue because of the current change in gambling policy. But we also believe that sending the bill from the voluntary sector to a large extent to people with gambling problems is wrong. This is not where the account will end. Therefore, we need to look at the full scope of the voluntary sector and how we can facilitate voluntary sector from the public perspective. The voluntary sector must also be offensive when it comes to obtaining income. We know that much of the sector is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1625	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1628	I also think it is nice that the Council of State has increased its field. We in the Left probably wanted to increase the cultural aspect a little bit more, at the expense of the press support. But I also have to say that the debate that Olemic Thommess had time to address in his speech is an important debate on the governance of cultural life. I believe that there is a debate which must also be taken into account in this House in the future, and which is likely to come up much more. So to some concerns and some other priorities that the Left would have done in this budget: the first thing I want to go forward is the museums. Once you've had such a big increase in the field of culture, I think it's strange that you don't want to give the museums any more priority. When you see that there are also a lot of inequalities happening, and that there is an inconsistency in the contribution to the museums in relation to the reform, I am more concerned. There is also some grip the Council of State takes on a number of areas for which I do not understand the motivation. I don't think it's going to strengthen the museum sector as a whole. I don't think it's going to be any advantage for the development of the museum sector. This is a model that is really made for a completely different country, with a completely different regional breakdown. It is possible that this is a contribution from the Council of State to the regional debate within the Government, but as it is now, the project images and the development that have been moved out are not possible to bear by the institutions to which they have been added. I still think the Culture Council should continue to do this. Another area that I'm also amazed that hasn't been appreciated anymore is the folk music area. It's an exciting area that also touches on other issues we're going to deal with today, and that I'm going to come back to. The left had wanted to prioritize the folk music area more. It is strange that a Council of State that has so much room for action in the field of culture and that has raised the multicultural field so much does not want to make a real commitment to bring the multicultural institutions up to a normal level. I was very happy about what Britt Hildeng said today when it was about Snelda. But if you want to raise the multicultural area, you need a good deal with all the parties, where we raise the multicultural institutions up to what is a normal level of subsidies, even for the so-called Norwegian institutions – I still like to deal with the so-called ‘so-called’, even though the Progress Party does not like it. That promise was intended for the Left to start with in connection with the previous budget, and we point out that we want it in connection with this budget as well. We think it's strange that we don't get any more support for the skill it would have been to raise these institutions to a normal level. Then to the literature area. The region of the Minister of Culture is affected by the areas of other Councils. The area of freedom I mentioned earlier today. The government's commitment to a loan scheme and not to a literature grant scheme particularly affects small district bookstores. The left has made both contributions and proposals to look at measures in the small district bookstores, which are important cultural institutions out in the district of Norway, and important to maintain the breadth of the cultural offer where the commercial players, as a small district bookstore, are important to keep it. Another area I'm concerned about is the area of volunteering. I'm sure there's some clear ideological grip going on here. I am concerned that there are now investigations on the table that primarily take care of the large and heavy organizations and not the small volunteers. The LOCs have been mentioned by several. We clearly support the position of the Right and Christian People's Party in relation to these funds. I'm a little concerned about the treatment of the Nordnorsk Cultural Council, which is one of the institutions that supports the free artists. The fact that we are getting such a big turn to institutions and away from the free artistic environment, I think is a worrying feature of the policy that is now being pursued. Finally, I should have liked to talk for a long time about Ibsen. I think it's getting a little awkward and petty when we don't get a bigger boost in relation to Ibsen this year, so we could have pulled the lines forward in 2007. Finally, I would like to make the proposals that the Left has in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1651	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1656	In the election campaign before the last big elections, I had the pleasure of participating in some debates in which the representative Skei Grande was also involved. When we launched the cultural promise, it didn't take long before the left said that they also had the goal of doing the same thing as we did in the cultural promise – 1 pst. of the State budget should go for cultural purposes. They didn't just promise, as we did, to do this by 2014, with a steady rise. I was at a meeting where it was said that the goal was to be achieved in one year – it could have been a mouth hole. I have checked it today, and there is at least no doubt that the Left has been hard on throughout the election campaign, and this was to be done during this big period. In this year's budget, we see that the left is the second worst in the class when it comes to giving money to culture. Does the representative Skei Grande feel that the left is in good shape to achieve the goal of 1 pst. by the State budget for culture in 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1663	Yes, we do – we'll do that. We have done a cut in the press support, but on the other part of culture there is a great increase in the budget of the Left. We're going to follow up on that. Of course, we're going to follow up on what's our election program in the big time period.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1669	It has been important from the centre party's point of view to gain clarity in the Left and some other opposition parties when it comes to important instruments within the voluntary sector. The study association is an important tool for the voluntary sector. And I would like to ask the representative Skei Grande a very simple and straightforward question: Is the Left on the way away from the course that the previous government had in relation to the Student Union, and are we going to see a Left in the future that is more positive to the important work done by the Student Union, and therefore is more positive to support the Student Union?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1678	This is a question I'm really happy to get. If you go back in the minutes, you can probably find that as a member of the education committee, I was sorry for the cuts that were made every year. I think there's a need for a change in student associations, where ordinary adult education is distinguished for cultural communication. This is the same thing as the former government parties did in connection with last year's government budget, where we wanted our own study fund for cultural mediation, cultural training and the creation of voluntary organisations. Today, I think it is difficult, and we see that it is also with today's government. After this first year, today's government, which has flagged this so high, has not been able to lift this up. Perhaps this should have been on the Minister of Culture's table and his responsibility. Because there's talk of cultural mediation and organisational construction, and because he's a volunteer minister, this should have been his area instead of the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1685	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1688	Norway is doing well, and we're getting richer than ever in 2007. But society doesn't just have to get rich, it has to be rich for people. It must be rich in experiences, art, culture, sport and volunteering. Once material needs are met, perhaps these areas are crucial for the quality of life, community and development of humans. The government has a vision that Norway will be a leading cultural nation, focusing on culture in all parts of society. The government’s cultural promise is a recognition of the role of culture in society. We went high on the track. We stood in this room on 1 April 2004 and promised a cultural promise for Norway. It wasn't a April joke – it was serious, and now we're making our promises. By 2014 1 pst. of the State budget for cultural purposes, and with the 2007 budget we are on track. About 460 million. On the cultural budget framework within the cultural promise, we are on track to achieve the goal. Never before have the appropriations for artistic and cultural purposes increased so much. We aim to strengthen the different fields, but at the same time get more for the money. There are several here who have called for a debate on structures, on measures, on implementation, decentralisation, arm's length, etc. That's where we're going. There is probably no budget in recent years that has been presented with so many changes that strengthen decentralisation, the spread of power, less bureaucracy and more money for cultural activities. But what is also the review tone is that when we come to the concrete measures proposed, the same parties that are calling for structural changes are against the changes proposed, that is, when we place cultural-historical museums' support schemes in the Cultural Council to the institutions, in the case of the LOC, for which we believe the municipalities must have a responsibility, and also schemes that I do not know whether there are strong opinions about, namely the decentralisation of the Contemporary Art Purchasing Scheme, or the fact that we are doing what should have been done a long time ago, that is, we are taking the press support for individual publications out of the ministry, government and greatness, and over to the Council of Culture, so that we also get an arm's length distance in the area where there should be a real distance between policy and allocation. So the structural measures that are requested are carried out in large monn. We're also making arrangements for a huge lift. The music club is strengthened by 64 million. kr. Individual enterprises, grant schemes – all genres are strengthened. The museum sector has been mentioned here. The museum reform is strengthened more than ever – 67 million. kr more on the 2007 budget. Nevertheless, there are some in the opposition who believe that it is too small. Let me remind you that the whole increase in the submitted cultural budget in the autumn of 2005 was 102 million. kr, so that we only have in the museum sector a strengthening equal to two thirds of the last government's proposal for total cultural growth in 2006. We introduce cultural maps for young people. The Culture Act is on the table. We have launched Telemark research with an investigation into the living conditions of artists. It comes in the autumn of 2007 so that it can provide a basis for improving their living conditions. Now we know that 2006 will be the second best film year in Norwegian history. We're going to have a market share that's not at the level we have ambitions of, 25 pst., but that's approaching materially. We win international prizes, and we have strengthened the film budget by 60 million in the 2006 and 2007 budget. kr. One area where there is great disagreement is the press support. I am pleased that a clear majority of people go in to maintain the press stand. The Progress Party goes into its comments to halve the press support, and to ensure that the nationally-wide opinion papers are more or less self-sufficient. It will lead to less diversity. It will affect democracy and exchanges in society. It's important for us to take care of. Finally, volunteering: I see with interest that not only in society, but also among the opposition parties, has triggered a whole new energy after coming out of government. After cutting in the Frifonds year after year and in the last budget presented, 15 million were proposed. So it's not enough for $15 million. SEK in addition in 2007. Some people want another addition. We warmly welcome that. We hope that the previous government parties stay away from each other for a long time, so that this energy can be taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1707	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1710	We hear the council talking about arm's length, he's talking about decentralization, etc. Like the government parties, he boasts of what they've done. And then he shows that he has promised several measures from the Council of Culture and to the local institutions. Then there's something going on in my head, and it's that it can actually look as if in the short term the Council of State has intended to put down the Council of Culture or liquidate it in its present form. This is nothing new for the Council of State, because he knows that the Progress Party has proposed this several times. I wonder, in fact, whether it is such that the Council of State has in the long term intended to liquidate the Council of Culture in its present form?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1717	The representative Woldseth should not be afraid that things are happening up her head. It's just a sign of health. The 2007 Council of Culture budget is strengthened by 20 million. kr in sum, so it's not a weakening of the Council of Culture, it's a strengthening. But we're doing a clean-up. We believe it is wrong that the Culture Council should sit with a bunch of applications that can be better processed locally, or in the institutions concerned. The support scheme for cultural historical museums was mentioned here earlier. Well, the two biggest beneficiaries of that support scheme are the Maihaugen and the Folkemusuet. They receive millions of operating aid directly from the State. They must be able to find room within their ever-increasing budgets for projects instead of burdening the Culture Council with such applications. We also move things from the department to the Cultural Council. We create a new support scheme for stage art, for multi-annual support, and we create a new club support within the pop-rock area, etc. The sum will be a strengthening, but there will also be a massive cleanup of who does what, in accordance with the principles laid down in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1726	It was with great pleasure that we noted that the Minister of Culture in Dagbladet on 29 November this year pointed out that a number of artists are self-employed, and that it is important that these should have a predictable working situation. There is a need to improve social security rights in the event of pregnancy and childbirth for this group. A large part of these are women, and it's mainly women that are facing. Now the Right has just had a Document No. Eight proposals on this. Unfortunately it fell on stone ground, although there have been some positive signals. Will the Council of State contribute to our progress in this matter, so that the Government, perhaps in the context of the report on the living conditions of artists, which is very important, can also raise this matter with a cultural policy perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1733	The whole purpose of us now conducting a live union study for artists is just to see if there are special things that prevent people with creative abilities and visions from entering into an artistic career and creating their own function. We see that more people become freelancers, and that more start – as the representative Thommessen says – their own business. Many are far from the level of income that lawyers, doctors or other types of free professionals can have. There are often very small funds here. I'm open to all the good suggestions, especially those that ensure that women can enter an artist's career. They may be most sceptical about having less rights in terms of maternity leave, sick pay, pensions, etc., so there are many issues of both economic and welfare policy that need to be assessed. The report from Telemarksforschung will be completed about one year, and then we will follow up in an appropriate manner with a report to the Stortinget, both on the study and on the measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1742	I would like to ask the Council of State for a comment in the budgetary position behind it. It relates to the organisation BarneVakten, which the Committee says does ‘a very important job in relation to an advisory, guiding and driving function on how children can use the media in a positive way’. The Children’s Guard is setting a course for over 15,000 parents and 3,000 elephants every year, and they are doing a lot to help parents to be conscious when it comes to, among other things. exposure of media choice to children, harmful information and how to be conscious and ensure positive development. This is a volunteer organisation that does a very important and comprehensive job. They do not have State aid today, and one knows that there are small resources to trigger a lot of work and ensure a lot. I wonder how the Council of State will follow up that remark in the budget setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1751	I noticed that a joint committee mentioned the work done by the organisation BarneVakten. I fully agree with the Committee that they are doing a very important job, including: they have their own website where you can get tips on how to deal with these questions. It is important that the organisation is free to work, that they have their own governance and that they use the measures they themselves want. But the fact that we can engage in dialogue with the organisation, as the committee wants, changes the knowledge they have, and also assess how they can contribute to the better dissemination of this knowledge, I will take that with me. We always listen to the suggestions of the Christian People's Party, and read in particular the comments made by the Christian People's Party in the budgetary position, with very careful eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1761	The Council of State boasts of this cultural effort. Some of the problem, from my point of view, is that there are very few of the other state councils involved in the field of culture. The representative Olemic Thommess brought this up with rights on the social security side. You don't need a research institution to do that, you just need ears to get involved, and it seems like the government council is equipped with, sail if I don't know what effect it will have. This also applies to other fields. We have e.g. a Minister of Education who has cut down the entire field of art research and has removed all new scholarship holders for that research programme, and we have a Minister of Education who has also set up a loan scheme for school books that will strangle the small district bookshops. So my question to the Council of State is, what is it like, when the other Councils have so little understanding of the subject matter of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1770	I must say that my sympathy goes more to my predecessors in understanding the field than it needs to go to me. Firstly, I have an enormous understanding of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Local Government, who is the leader of our government and who is making sure that an overall college is in charge of the great budget promise. It's a collegiate body that's going through. In addition, the Minister of Local Affairs ensures that culture is at the heart of local economic development and rural development, including: in the message she presented. The Minister of Education has made sure that we have restored the level of appropriations after the dramatic cut in adult education resources proposed by the previous government in its budget – which means enormously in the field of culture. The Minister of Industry is in close dialogue with me on a short-term action plan for culture and industry, and I could still have in other areas. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has turned Jan Petersen's cut into the means of press, culture and information into a solid addition. In the Northern Region Strategy, as the Government presented, culture is central, and I could still. I should also have told you more that the left is missing approx. 400 million. kr on a steady escalation to 1 pst. by 2009, but I don't have time for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1779	That things are going on in my head, don't worry me much. This, on the other hand, should concern the Council of State. But then to something completely different, namely the volunteering. We have seen that the Council of State announces that there will be a voluntary register. We have also heard that the SV representative has shown that there will be a volunteer message. And then I'm going to have to ask the Council of State: is it that there's going to be a volunteer message in the spring of 2007? Is it the case that the Council of State is doing its job to ensure that all voluntary teams and organisations receive some form of compensation for the loss of gambling revenue?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1788	What we're adding in terms of compensation for volunteering in relation to the machines is exactly the same thing that the Storting has previously joined, and that was the arrangement of the previous government, that is, a redistribution of the key. For sport, that means, for example: that there will be a sports association that will receive the increased funds that are coming. It is very variable which teams and organisations in sport have income from vending machines or who do not. That's what sport has to decide for itself. Many would say that it is reasonable that when you get a single automatic receipt pot, even those who have not used automatic receipts can actually benefit from it. We must also be on guard and follow in other areas as to how we can strengthen volunteering. We have lifted the moratorium of the previous government against new games and developments. We are now opening, among others. for this pantheater, which I don't think is going to have any significant negative social effects. Other creative actions from voluntary activities will certainly be well attended. We're committed to strengthening volunteering even when we're switching the gaming industry. That's also one of the reasons why we're switching the gaming industry and securing these revenues for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1797	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1800	We in the Progress Party believe that culture should initially be free and independent of political governance and that it must be based on volunteering and personal commitment. Policy-driven cultural goods destroy culture and promote uniformity. Examples of this have been seen in other countries, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. in the Communist era in Eastern Europe and in today's North Korea. The Progress Party does not want a strongly subsidized cultural life, nor does it want a snout elite to manage the Community's cultural resources only to its own advantage. The government's significant increase in the use of taxpayers' money does not result in culture that people most want. Our message is that people should have access to cultural resources as far as possible. The Progress Party believes that this will ensure that culture becomes involved, committed and meets as much as possible. The Party considers that cultural resources should be channelled as far as possible in accordance with the diversity of taste and opinion that exists. This means that the Progress Party is in principle against all models whereby appointed committees allocate money, at their discretion, on behalf of the community. So we want to make a deal with ‘better’, ‘experts’ and ‘intellectual’ of all kinds, who think they can manage cultural resources better than ordinary people. A practical consequence of such a policy is that the Progress Party will distance itself from cultural policies in which large sums are used for performance projects where the target population is a relatively limited number of people, such as: construction of new opera in Bjørvika. This, of course, is not an unsound stand on the progress party. Our policies are not based solely on such a principle approach. We believe that there are some areas that must actually exist on the side of a free cultural market. This is in particular the preservation of important Norwegian culture in a historical perspective. So the Progress Party has recognised that we need to secure our cultural heritage for the posterity. This means that the Progress Party believes that the money to be spent on cultural actions by the public must, in the first place, ensure that important historical and traditional elements in the cultural sector are not lost and that it benefits as much as possible. My colleague, Karin S. Woldseth, presented this very well in his introduction. But back to my main score. The Progress Party wants cultural life to focus more on the audience and alternative sources of income than on public budgetary processes. The impact of such a policy will be twofold: firstly, it ensures increased income for cultural life without going beyond public budgets, and secondly, it ensures that cultural provision is free and reaches the maximum possible level. We must not get caught up in today's policy where cultural policy is about budget struggles, but find more mechanisms that can give public cultural institutions a wider audience, a more rich cultural offer, and society a better use of public and private cultural resources. The Progress Party does not want politicians to decide what is good or bad culture. We'll let people decide for themselves. That is why we do not want a strongly subsidized cultural life. Cultural life is best suited to people's needs. If cultural life does so, the need for large public subsidies will be greatly reduced. This will make it possible to reach more people with more culture. People's choice of culture will always be more varied than the publicly subsidised culture can offer. The Progress Party believes that it is precisely people's choices that ensure a breadth. We have noticed that the Government is increasing the public funding of culture. There does not seem to be any planned or clear profile of this investment, but instead it has been committed to ‘stripping out’ larger and smaller amounts for many purposes. The Progress Party believes that the Government is unable to formulate a cultural policy with significant innovation and that it is solely about rewarding narrow groups in cultural life.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1819	It has often been said from this pulpit, including me, that the 2007 cultural budget is historic. And I can repeat that. Nearly half a billion dollars in increase! It's never happened before. But I think I'm going to start my contribution to the budget debate by taking an overall look and asking some questions about why this promise in the field of culture is important, and say something about what it is that we want with it. As the ancient Greeks walked around and philosophized, they thought that the art had its own gods, the mice, which were able to reveal to the people the divine, and that the tools to achieve this were the art, the music, the lyrical, the dance, and the images. Art, like nothing else, can redeem us humans, thought the ancient Greeks. What do we think today? Some arguments and thoughts that we have made in the government fraction, and that we have brought into the debate we have had, can be worded this way: in a time when most people live hectic lives, and when scarcity of time rips us in all directions, we need some reflection rooms, some places we can go with the questions that we usually don't have time to ask or answer. Art and culture can give us this. Great art skills like nothing else to meet our concerns, our need to be affected and confirmed, and our longing for beauty. Culture is also what many often resort to when we need to express ourselves in a more subtle way. I have seen it as a creative and performing artist for many years in contact with people – from kindergarten kids to people in the final phase of life. And cultural experiences get extra strong when we can have them together, when we can participate in a community, either as an audience or as an actor. Deepest is about art and culture, that it gives us the opportunity to make a journey of recognition, and this government wants everyone to be able to participate in such a journey. It is the great reason for the historic cultural promise that the Government is now implementing. Then there are a lot of other reasons, too, that culture creates well-being in large and small communities, or that culture and cultural self-activity are about quality of life and perhaps even about health, or that art and culture are now gradually proving to have a significant nutritional potential. The cultural promise is that we're going to increase the appropriations for cultural purposes, so this is going to be 1 pst. of the State budget by 2014. This promise is taken widely, in several cultural areas, while we can point to some fields that have come out particularly well. The music is such a field. The increase in the music field for 2007 is well 64 million. NOK, and much of the bet goes to the free field. It is gratifying that music genres such as pop, rock, folk music and jazz, which have not previously been winners in public budgets, have also received a boost. The free stage art field has also been given a lift, on approx. Twenty million. kr. Not least, it's great that dance, which is a young art form with us, has been given a boost through the new grant scheme under the Norwegian Cultural Fund. In this context, it is important to stimulate further cooperation between the institutions in the field of performing arts and the free field. And this spring, the film message will come! The appropriations for voluntary cultural life are finally in place, after the Bondevik II Government made some juicy cuts in the 2006 budget proposal. I got a lot of worried messages from cultural actors in many places, a concern that is now turned to joy. I am also pleased that the Government knows, in relation to amateur culture, how to align the appropriations against the building of competences, as has been done with the support of the Norwegian Theatre Council, where Hålogaland Amateur Theatre Society and the Western Theatre Centre have received funds earmarked at the same level as they have now. These train professionals for the amateur business, and now they have a predictability that is important for this work. The government has taken some important overall political action that can be of great importance. The review of the conditions of power in cultural life is very important, and I am very pleased that the Council of State has said that this work should be done on a broad basis – here you should think of the distribution of power in a geographical, artistic, sexual and ethnic perspective. Not least the latter will be important for the Secretariat that will start to work towards the 2008 Year of Cultural Diversity. Towards, through and after 2008, it is important to realise what we have promised: to lift and make visible the diverse and rich culture of multicultural Norway. There are also some dividing lines between political parties in the field of culture. The greatest distinction goes between the Progress Party and the other batches. Art vision, but also how public responsibility – or lack of responsibility – should be addressed. The Progress Party, which will increase the government's money pool by DKK 25 billion, cuts in the smallest budget, the cultural budget, by 800 million. kr for 2007. In conjunction with the programme formulations of the Progress Party that the State should not support the theatre and other institutions, it may be necessary to introduce a handful of artists as soon as possible. Should the Progress Party against presumptuousness gain power, I am afraid that not many great artists will be ready for canonization in the coming generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1842	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1845	It's amazing that today we're going to adopt the greatest interest in culture in history. We're now well on our way to achieving the goal of 1 pst. of the State budget to go to culture. So there's going to be an increase in the cultural budget, which is just over $0.5 billion. It's a five-fold increase in growth relative to the Bondevik government's budget on culture. Never before has the cultural effort been mentioned in billions of terms. It's not too early for it to be. It's time for jam. Culture is important in people's lives, because we need something to live for. Cultural experiences, cultural activities, commitment and community give people the opportunity to better life. It also makes our society more exciting and enriching. It increases creativity and well-being, and it creates good communal arenas in a society where many want more community, not less community. That is why the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre said before the elections that we should implement the Cultural Promise, and with the budget now for 2007, we are on track. And we're going to deliver what we've promised, including in this area. The whole country has to take part in this. We strengthen the width, and we also strengthen the narrowness. We strengthen the volunteer, the commitment and the fires. People in Rogaland, my own country, too, will benefit from the commitment to culture. In total, Rogaland's worth 32 million. kr more next year than they've got before. And the feedback I get from home is extremely positive. That doesn't mean that one in Rogaland and other places thinks that now one has enough, and that one doesn't need more, but one enjoys the bet and trusts that we will also deliver at the next crossroads. And we are red-green, with Trond Giske at the head, which must be the guarantors for us to deliver in the future as well. In Rogaland, there are many who get more. I can mention someone: the symphony orchestra, all the museums, the Chapter Festival, which has finally come to the state budget, the theaters, and not least we're also giving 40 million dollars. kr to Stavanger kulturby 2008. We show the city of culture that this government stands by its promises to Stavanger 2008, and we are looking forward both to the 2007 recording, and the year 2008 itself. It will also provide better conditions for the fantastic efforts of thousands of volunteers around the countryside and cities of this country with the Cultural Promise. Several volunteer centres create networks, contacts, warmth, helping hands and less solitude. The strengthening of the local economy will also contribute to more culture. $12 billion more to the municipality means $400 million. kr more for culture in 2007. A red-green government makes the dream that Culture-Norway and cultural life have had for many years, into reality, and we're going to continue that job. The Councils of State and all those in the Committee on Culture should know that we who sit on the other committees will be with the Red-Greens and move on to this promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1862	The debate today, as we have also had in the past, has shown that there is a great consensus in Norwegian cultural policy – the exception is the Progress Party, which is also on a different level in this matter. It will be exciting to see the coordination between the Right and the Advance Party towards the 2009 elections – between Olemic Thommessen, whom I see as a representative of the value-conservative Right, and Karin S. Woldseth and Ulf Erik Knudsen's voices from the People's Depth – how to reconcile the forces of the 2009 elections. It's going to be exciting to look at the priorities that come out of it. But in one field they're actually closer together, and it's in the field that there's not much consensus in Norwegian politics, in the media field. This is an exciting field. For consumers, it's absolutely amazing. It's a bunch of offers, it's a bunch of channels on TV, it's newspapers and websites, it's journals, it's music, and it's film. In the future, we will probably make our own menu more and more, as opposed to the common media everyday life that the NRK gave us until a few years ago. In the future, I guess we'll just pick the sandwiches that we like. We are likely to be able to protect ourselves from unwanted advertising. In my view, the result also has negative sides. Those who will be able to choose easily digestible programs at the expense of facts, timeliness and news programmes, which we may have been forced to see in the past. This may be nice, but there's hardly any strength for the broad societal debate. Just in such a situation, it is important that we have media ownership control and press support. This is the best tool and tool to ensure a sense of diversity. The right-hand and the right-hand parts of the Progress Group are cutting drastically in the form of press support, and in the field of media policy they are going a long way in the right-hand direction. We also see that in this year's budget. We see from the program of these two parties that they cut drastically. A strength of Norwegian democracy has been — and is — the diversity of media, the breadth of ownership and diversity of opinions. These are qualities that must be pursued and strengthened and not transformed into goods on a commercial market. It is not the case that the meaningful newspapers that wear are missing readers. What is, they lack money, they lack ads. The advertising market is not a democratic institution. That is why I do not believe that a product should be made in a commercial market for supply and demand.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1873	The cultural promise is a promise and a promise. That's concrete, it can be measured: 15 points plus 1 billion dollars, 1 pst. of the budget in 2014. The promise was followed up in the year's budget. It's being followed up in the budget for next year. The promise is important to those who are concerned with the good life. My hometown, The Drama, intensified the pursuit of the good life before the millennium. The city plan and urban development were on the agenda. The people took part in the hunt: children, young people, business, people in the neighborhoods replied unisonously. Of four scenarios, Drammenssen Naturbania chose a vocabulary and a vision of the future that reflects a dense, diverse city – urban, but with nature and river, and the multicultural as a special feature of the city. Culture was chosen as an engine in the desired urban development. Philosophy was that culture is important to people's well-being. Where people thrive, they want to live. Where people want to live, business will establish itself. Action on culture led to the design of the physical environment. Good meeting places for shared experiences became important – squares, urban beach, river park, theatre, museum, new cinema, sports area for elites and latitudes, and new year-round swimming pool, where the cultural promise has already contributed 5 million. kr. River festival, city festival and major sporting events have become a trademark of the city. What we're seeing is that people's use of the common arenas is not a measure of quota – the use of new uses, and good experiences create a desire for new experiences. Through the cultural promise, funds come to bet. A happy museum director gets a new 700,000 kroner for next year. He was almost more fond of the justification than of the money, for some on the highest team had seen the valuable in the job he is doing. The Bragettheater, a unique theatre with a children's youth and multicultural perspective, gets 600 000 more. But the most important thing: culture as an engine in urban development and the entrance ticket to good life, is a way of thinking that's also taken into account in the work of an inclusive urban community. Culture is an excellent bridge builder. 11 October 2003 was a big day with kick-offs for the city's new nerves: the international cultural centre of the drama, in old factory halls in Greenland, at the eleventh, together with the city's new university centre and centre for multicultural value creation – a common breeding area for culture, nutrition and education, which will become a national competence centre for multicultural dissemination. Many actors are in place. New ones are coming in the next construction step. The state contributed five million. kr in the first step. What about the next one? In the spring, the «Great World» conference was held, with the theme: What challenges do a new arena face, built on the idea of cultural diversity? Finally, in my post there, I said, if you want to, I want to have a university degree in international cultural work, an action plan for inclusion, with Drammen as national lighthouse and 15 million. kr from Trond Giske. The $15 million. kr is in box, distributed over four years. That's great. That's the way to do it. This is how local investment is overrun and strengthened by the national cultural promise. So that's 2.5 million. kr to other parts of the county. So in Buskerud, we're happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1887	It's about being in the right place at the right time. But since a good thing can't be said too often, I'm going to repeat my words about Ibsen – with the right government council in the hall. In the State budget, the Government proposes to grant 1.5 million. kr at an international Ibsen price. When the Right is critical of this proposal, there are two main reasons for it. Firstly, it is important to evaluate the Ibsen year that is now approaching the end. What's done? What should be continued? In the right, we believe that there is a lack of investment in some other Ibsen projects, and this must be assessed against the creation of an international price and the use of money it entails. Secondly, the country must have a strategy for its Ibsen bet, and an international Ibsen prize must be seen in such a comprehensive strategy. The status of the Ibsen Prize is very well known and little concrete. What does it mean to make an extraordinary effort within the spirit of Ibsen? Is that cool enough, is that okay enough? In the right, it is important to put in place a long-term strategy for managing Ibsen’s authorship. In this context, a more pointed Ibsen price fits. The wonderful thing about the case is that in Norway we already have an Ibsen price – a dramatist price. There is no equivalent in Norway. The ski has been distributing this national Ibsen price for 20 years. It is highly valued and taxed, and must really be said to be a price in the spirit of Ibsen. I know that the municipality of Skien has applied to the department to expand this price to become an international dramatist prize. But I also know that both the city’s workers’ party rapporteur and the cultural leader have come to a brief meeting with the department. It would be quite natural that the Ski had the opportunity to further develop its traditional Ibsen prize. It is in the spirit of Ibsen, and it is well established in Ibsen's birthplace. It can't be that the government is thinking of depriving the ski of its Ibsen-price or trying to outrun it? In this case, there is actually both a need and a need for a rest section. An international Ibsen prize must be established in the right context and in relation to a conscious strategy. Ibsen in 2006 is expected to be a success. The events throughout the year have raised Henrik Ibsen’s authorship and increased awareness of this both internationally, nationally and locally. This year has illustrated the responsibility of Norway as a nation to manage literature history’s leading authorship. An extension of the ski's dramatic prize will fit perfectly into this picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1906	A general feature of the debate here today is that the Red-Green and State Councils Gisk have sung in the shine from giving out mild gifts in the East and West. Or as he himself expressed it in an earlier debate in this room: the difference between my cultural budget and my predecessors, is that I have added a zero after all the numbers. I'm startled at how unprofessional and clumsy a state council is able to express itself from this pulpit. It's actually no use giving money to buy politically correct popularity. Whether the Council of State's gesture to cultural life is equally echoed in the environments in which the Workers' Party gives the impression of representing it is probably more doubtful. There is no reflection or humility in the Council of State that the money used actually belongs to others. These are employee incomes that Halvorsen and Stoltenberg have confiscated to further distribute for purposes they believe are better than what the employees themselves would prioritize. For the Progress Party, it is not that every time healthy and upcoming people, representing narrow interest groups, are not supported by the State budget. For us, on the other hand, it is directly painful to spend other people's money through public budgets. The party of progress is not against culture, rather against culture. We believe, however, that people themselves should define their own cultural concept as far as possible. For that very reason, we want people to retain more of their own income, so that they can define and decide more about their own well-being and about their own cultural activities. In other words, what is defined as good welfare or culture for one person is not necessarily perceived in the same way by another. I want to re-use an example I used in the tax debate a few days ago. The example shows how crooked the government's so-called commitment to culture can be. Many young people today are often willing to pay $1,000 for a ticket to a rock concert or a football match. At the same time, the few of these people want to go, for example, in the Opera. When rock enthusiasts are willing to pay the full price for their ticket, the Progress Party does not think that he or she should at the same time subsidize the ticket to the politically correct culture, which the opera, for example, represents. Such redistribution of the resources of society means that those participating in a broad culture pay not only fully for their own ticket but also subsidises the opera ticket for people who are largely able to pay for their own cultural activities. Such a policy is twice unfair and helps people to finance the elite of society. Or to use red-green rhetoric, you take from people most and give to those who have the most from before. The tax arrangements of the Progress Party ensure that people are able to make their own decisions. Not least because we have a device that makes it especially those with lower and medium incomes that get the greatest relief. In our tax system, a family could get $18,000 in tax bills, and thus determine and define its own culture itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1921	The President will recall that the use of the word "flocked" is limited to being unparliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1924	I might have expected that the North Norwegian Culture Council had received more attention in the posts of the representative Tove Karoline Knutsen because the North Norwegian Culture Council is in a difficult situation. The working party at all levels, both at state level and in government and at large, bears a considerable responsibility in relation to the ability of the Nordic Council of Culture to continue working. There has been a reversal of the grip that meant that the Nordnorsk Cultural Council was removed from the budget, as a result of a slightly different signal from the county councils. You moved this money around. There has been a reversal that gives Nordnorsk Kulturrådet 1 million. kr to next year, but still there is a deficit of 1.7 million. kr. It has been said in the newspapers from some of the Workers' Party's representatives that they had a SEK 1.7 million. kr shall be included in the counties. We are in the middle of the budgetary procedure, and there is so far no sign that that money will be put in place. I hope I'm wrong, but at least that far I haven't been able to track down any signals about it. That means that the North Norwegian Culture Council is coming out very badly next year. They shall enter into an evaluation round where they shall be in a discussion with the counties. It is important that the Nordic Culture Council is not put in hand with the hat in that conversation. The Nordic Culture Council should have the same spine, the same field of action and the same strength as they have had in the current year, also to the next year. If this doesn't come out wrong. They had previously received a State contribution of 2.7 million. kr. They're now going to get 1 million. kr. It's clear that this is a dramatic cut, which there's reason to take a serious look at. I hope that the Workers' Party at different levels will take responsibility for the fact that the Nordic Culture Council will have the same working conditions for next year as this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1933	There are two things that are clear in this debate. One is that with the red-green government we actually take a solid cultural leap. The second is that we have a party, the Progress Party, which actually believes that culture evolves within a glass bubble, where impulses from the outside are deadly. When I hear the debate, I actually wonder if the Progress Party is at all concerned with developments in art and culture. Leave it alone! In any case, art and culture have always evolved to meet the unknown, with what challenges our identity. Therefore, cultural policy is an important part of foreign policy. Therefore, cultural diversity is something that all other parties are concerned about. Art and culture are at the heart of every country's national structure. Therefore, Norway supports the Academy of Arts in Palestine, an art academy that artists in Palestine and the Academy of Arts in Oslo have taken the initiative. It was perhaps no coincidence that the artists in Palestine just stood up for freedom of expression after the tumults of the Muhammad drawings. This underlines the importance of the cultural artistic dialogue across borders, but not just that: it is that dialogue and free flow of artistic expressions contribute to the development of our own artistic and cultural policies. Cultural diversity means giving space to all the voices, all the identities, all the stories, all the artistic and cultural expressions of the minority and majority population on an equivalent basis. In this work, we must have a strategy to provide organisations, institutions and individuals who have taken initiatives from below, greater predictability and a better framework. We know who they are, and most people get support, on top. Item 320, item 74. A first step is taken to increase predictability in this budget. 2008 is not just the year of diversity, it is also the year we have the opportunity to lift up two of our important artists, Olav H. Hauge and Geirr Tveit. I am pleased that the Committee agrees that it is both a state and a regional responsibility to ensure that the works of these two artists are brought into our time and given a rich afterlife. It is good for a year of diversity to ensure that two so striking and controversial artists are made visible. Both blasted conventional limits. Both were significant in addition to Norwegian — in our time. That's why it's important that we make sure that this work is made possible, that we lift it up. I'm sure the Council of State will be sensitive to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1944	This day I've been looking forward to a very long time – and then it's not the Christmas table I'm thinking about. But today the attitude of the cultural budget is to be addressed, and I think that is a very good reading. Never before have so much been invested in culture, and never before have the municipalities of Norway had a greater chance of really investing in this field. Because it's actually nothing but a historical bet when we look at this budget – over half a billion dollars in increase compared to the previous budget means just one thing: we keep what we promised in the election campaign. In Melhus, my municipality of residence, we have a very good culture school. As an old student, I have to say that it gave me experiences for life. For those of us who were performing amateur theatres at this cultural school, it was always a big highlight when the Reichsteatret came to visit. For us in the districts, the Riksteatret is often the only opportunity you have to experience theatre art at a really high level. That's why I think it's sad when the Progress Party – to the extent that among a large number of cuts – wants to cut support for this purpose. When it comes to getting culture out to people most, the Riksteatret is a great tool. It's not like we who live in the districts can at any time just throw ourselves on a plane and travel to Oslo to get us a play. In the debate, the Progress Party has talked a lot about fine culture, about the cultural elite that wastes Norwegian taxes on art and culture that are only for the few. To put it mildly, it could be called a rough generalization of the projects supported by the State budget. As the Council of State has mentioned before me, culture is a very important part of people's lives. For many people, everyday life would seem much more gray and boring if you were only to bet on self-financing culture. It is also important to take care of the narrow projects around the country. That's why I've been so happy about this day. Therefore, this is a joyous day for all who are happy in culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1957	I've been challenged to say something about the Nordic Culture Council. I'd like to. When I chose not to include it in my main post, it was because, in my opinion, the matter has been signed out. It is not right, as the representatives Thommessen and Skei Grande suggested in their speeches, that the state has drawn its allocation to the North Norwegian Cultural Council. It was the Nordic states that drew their support to the North Norwegian Cultural Council, first Northland in 2005 and Troms and Finnmark through a letter to the Department of 5 September this year. Then it was important that the money that had previously gone to the Nordic Council of Culture was redispatched so that they could benefit freelancers in Northern Norway. It was redispatched so that the Festspielne Turné, which is a very exciting music arrangement for the free professional music life in the north, got 2 million. kr of that money. The Nordic states and the Nordic cultural organisations agreed to maintain the Council in 2007, however, in view of the Council's need to review its organisation and activities. That's what I think was a very good solution, because despite being a strong supporter of Nordic cultural cooperation, I've long been of the opinion that the Nordic Council of Culture needs to take the review that they've now said they're going to take. So the counties have said, in writing, through the head of the County Council in Troms, that they should answer for administrative costs and operating support to the organisations at the same level as before. Then the government has set that at 1 million. NOK 2 million. kr for the festivities of the Tourne shall be redisposed to the North Norwegian Cultural Council Freelancing Spot, which is exactly the same amount as they have previously had. So as the matter stands now, the support to the Nordnorsk Cultural Council is continued in 2007, and then we've got 1 million. kr extra to the freelance professional musicians through the Festspielene Turné. I think that's a very good arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1966	The last representative of the Progress Party who was in the pulpit had a slightly different angle to the cultural area than the one that the Progress Party had previously had in the debate. The use of public crowns on culture hurts – I think there was something in the duration he said. Then he says that culture should not be burdened on each one of them over the tax haven, but one should be taxed, and then a free choice can be made of what kind of culture you will experience, and the community should be less responsible for it. You will be asked a few questions immediately. What's the selection then? Has the Progress Party been around and seen how the bus fare is and what distances it is in this country? Is it possible to ensure a good operational basis for the cultural institutions we have in the country, based only on ticket receipts? I think the Progress Party is wrong. I believe that if one implements such a policy in the cultural field as the Progress Party at the end of the debate no longer provided, the people of much of this country will be deprived of the opportunity to experience culture in their neighbourhood, culture they currently have access to. So there's one more question. It's about the ability you have to experience culture, from the wallet. Does the Progress Party really believe that all the groups that today benefit from cultural services can experience culture even if the ticket prices within the cultural area are much higher? I don't think so – I think youth groups in particular will have serious problems paying the entrance ticket for cultural services. This shows the true face of the Progress Party. This culture store, which the Prom could have called it, only think of those who live near the store, those who can get to the store, those who are tall enough to reach the top shelf, and those who can afford to pay when they get to the cash register. There is no such cultural policy for this government – fortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1975	First, a question that I did not have time to answer properly, and that was raised by several people, namely the LOK scheme – where you are concerned about 6.3 million. kr disappears from the Culture Council support scheme for local music actions. The concern is what happens to the local culture. I note that no parties on Stortinget want to maintain the LOK in its present form. However, some parties propose that different sectoral organisations should be able to do something about this. We believe that we have done a lot of that in the state budget, but above all, we believe that more than 12 billion kroner in municipal budgets are about 400 million. These measures can be implemented to a large extent in the field of culture. Many of the measures are already supported by the municipality, so it will be simplification of bureaucracy to bring together that support in fewer places. At the same time, there are many measures that will affect exactly the same areas: Free Fund is strengthened by 15 million. kr, The cultural school bag involves many local cultural actions, the festival support is greatly increased, the cultural walking stick by 10 million. This involves a lot of local culture, cultural maps for young people can contribute to greater demand. There are many different measures: 2 million. SEK to cows, 2.5 million. SEK to corps, 2.5 million. kr for music ensembles, 1 million. SEK for tour support, 3 million. kr for various jazz actions, 10 mill. kr for the Rikskonserten and 5 mill. kr for the extension of the cultural school bag to secondary school. And by the fact that the new charging scheme for the use of unprotected music comes from 1 January, the Fund for Performers will receive 10 million. kr extra, also to many of these same measures. So the liquidation of the LOK, that others take care of this, will in sum lead to a massive increase in the cultural activity on the local level. As far as the Right Party is concerned, which I think has a rather constructive approach to the debate on structures – they also had it in the previous period – one is in principle for decentralisation, arm's length distance, less bureaucracy, etc., but every single time it is done, whether it is the support scheme for cultural history museums, support schemes for the LOC, whether it is the Nordnorsk Musikkraad or what it is now, one is against in practice. Then, at least, we have to make some alternative suggestions on how to implement what I think we agree to some extent: to decentralize, to spread power in Culture-Norway, to reduce application lettering, bureaucracy and reporting, and to ensure that more money goes to creative art. Because although we disagree on the level of cultural activity and rate four times as much as the previous government in terms of growth, we must at least be able to agree on some principles here, and then you cannot run away from those principles every time it creates a little discomfort in implementation and practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1984	The representative Olemic Thommessen has spoken twice before and is given the word for a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e1987	I'm even going to make two comments within one minute that I get. First, to the representative Knutsen. There was a good explanation, but still the math doesn't go up, after what I can do to get to my head. It's a 1.7 million-dollar deficit. kr, if the county councils do not come up with additional funds. We'll see about that. I thank the council for the invitation. I'll promise him that we'll come back more strongly to the question of the spread of power. With regard to the arrangements that have been moved on within the Norwegian Cultural Council, there is, frankly, a small scrape in – I was saying – the paint, or in the Fernissen. Then we're talking about small arrangements. When we have moved on to maintain the LOK, it is about looking at the LOK scheme primarily in a voluntary perspective, and in that way we believe that the volunteers in this will be too poor. Otherwise, you might think in new ways about the distribution between the municipality and the state. It is true, as the Council of State says, that many of these things are already being supported in the municipalities. Besides, we don't believe that even though the municipalities are benevolent and there are many good local politicians, two and two won't be four when this comes up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e2001	That's not right. The representative Thommess and his party are in favour of terminating the LOK scheme as it is under the Culture Council, and are strengthening a number of industries – or a number of sectoral organisations – but they are also strengthened in many other ways, so that the overall picture is that many of these local measures are strengthened. But I very much welcome concrete proposals on how to implement it. I see that the municipality of Trondheim, which has a red-green majority, has gone out and said that all the measures that have been supported by the LOK scheme will be taken care of in 2007 so that no one will have any transitional problems. Now it's not like all the measures have cut-off cards to get support in the eternal future. Some have to be phased out in order for others to be allowed to do so. That's what culture is like. But in that transition, there are some municipalities that take that responsibility, and I hope that Thommessen can influence their partymates in the capital, for example, to do the same. The same is true elsewhere in Norway, ensuring that the solid additions, which would not have been there if there had not been a change of government, can actually benefit cultural life. So a few words about Tybring-Gjedde's guest performance as a cultural politician. Well, let me first recommend him to use Karin Woldseth's head. Even though it means even more discomfort to her, I think it's better on culture than what you can say about the post that came here, where you make the cultural effort as something just an elite get to enjoy. Well, the Free Fund goes to hundreds of thousands of children's and youth audiences and participants all over the country. The cultural school bag enjoys all school students, the festival support is hundreds of thousands of people who enjoy it throughout the year. The cultural spa can make the elderly more involved in culture. Youth cultural cards can enable people with poor economies, such as young people with low incomes, to participate in culture. The fact that we get more Norwegian films is good both for the present and for the future, and the audience flows to Norwegian cinemas to watch Norwegian films. Support for rock clubs is very well received in the environments it concerns. The fact that we have more books in the libraries is a result of strengthening the purchasing system. So Tybring-Gjedde simply has to read the cultural budget to see what's actually going on. So one more thing. I think saying that these other things -- opera or symphony orchestras or theaters -- are fine culture, it's for the elite, is a very downgrading of the so-called people most. In my party and in the red-green government, we actually believe that most people are highly qualified and welcome to go to the opera, to go to the symphony orchestra concert, to go to the theater, because these institutions should be for everyone, not just for the few. An opera ticket would cost – because this has the Advance Party bills on – many, many times what it costs today, if you remove the support. It would be institutions only for the elite. It's with our policies that these institutions are for people the most, and we actually believe that everyone should benefit from all the cultural activities that they care about, and that there is no difference between high and low in terms of the possibility of taking an interest in all kinds of art forms.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e2018	It's obvious that my post hit the Council of State on a very generous toe, but I'm actually not so impressed by the Council of State's ability to grant money. What I'm impressed by are politicians who want people to keep more of their own money, politicians who say they don't want to rule, politicians who trust people, politicians who let people make their own decisions, politicians who don't judge other people's choices. It's also a little paradoxical: if you go back and look at which of the Norwegian artists are world famous and famous, are those who over the years have received the most state support, the most public support – yes, some of them have received it – who have been most recognized? When we go back and look at musicians, poets, writers and painters, are those who got the most support, who have been most recognized? Very, very doubtful. Our point – with our budget – is that we want to give tax breaks, so that people can prioritise themselves. If a family with two children gets $18,000 in tax bills, they can either go to the Rolling Stones concert or go to the opera or listen to the Philharmonic. But they must give priority to that themselves. Saying that opera today is for the most people, is directly meaningless. If you do an investigation of who goes in the opera — yes, some have received discounts — you will find that the average of those who go in the opera is actually not the most people. And that's pretty interesting to see. We can see this in Oslo. How many people from Groruddalen, for example, are going to the opera? There aren't very many of them. They come mostly from the Oslo West. And so the tickets are subsidized by people living in the Grorud Valley, for example. The Progress Party believes that it is better policy, better cultural policy, to let people keep their own money, so that they can make their own priorities and go to their own cultural events, which they themselves want to prioritise. It's now that people have different priorities. Someone wants a night at the pub. It can be good culture for someone. One day in the swimming pool can be good culture for another. A tour of the library can be good culture for a third. But it is up to each one to prioritize the use of his own money when he gets to keep his own money. It's not good politics – it's actually not politics at all, I think – to boast that other people's money has been distributed for all kinds of purposes. It is very, very simple politics to claim that it is good cultural policy to distribute money for all good purposes. What is politics is actually finding new methods and letting people choose to distribute their own money. That's good policy. It's a brave policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e2035	When one hears the representative Tybring-Ged his contribution here on the cultural budget, we realize that the Progress Party would have had its cultural policy implemented, it would be a disaster for cultural life. Because it is important to have a diverse and good cultural policy. We need those professionals who are involved and stimulate amateurs. We need good activities for children and young people. And facilitating that we have both theater, opera, orchestra and whatever it should be is very important. Should the Progress Party have a plurality of its policy, it would have removed a pile of important and good support schemes for culture. In order for us to have a good and living cultural life locally among volunteers and amateurs, we know that there are many professionals who begreg and provide incentives for the volunteer. So talk about one spending another's money. Yes, we spend a lot of money inside the public to facilitate good growth conditions for children and young people. Culture has a intrinsic value in itself. And when a question about those who are internationally known today as Norwegian artists has had good support arrangements, they may not have, but they have become known nationally and internationally perhaps more indignant than because of it. If we are to facilitate new seedlings in Norway today that can become known nationally and internationally, will we do so without having a conscious cultural policy that facilitates, that takes care of the shortage, and that also stimulates the narrow culture and not just the broad one? I'm glad that there's a broad deal about most of it within the cultural field. I am pleased that there is a strengthening of the cultural budget. And I'm glad that what the representative Tybring-Ged here today is not getting through. I know they have representatives in the Committee who are occupied by some areas also in the field of culture. Even if we disagree about a lot, there are some areas in which they are occupied. But I'm not in doubt that if the Progress Party had got a total impact on its cultural policy, it would have been a disaster in very many areas within the cultural sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e2046	The representative Erling Sande has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e2049	For the first time, Tybring-Gjedde explained that price increases in cultural supply will take place as a result of the Progress Party's policy if it is to be implemented. He also did not deny that there would be longer distances to cultural provision. Then he talked about those who get $18,000 in taxes. My question to Tybring-Gjedde is: What about those who don't get $18,000 in taxes? Is culture only for those who get tax credits and who can afford to buy tickets from institutions that get higher entry prices? I repeat: this is a cultural policy for those who live nearby, for those who have mobility, and for those who have a bold wallet.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e2058	I had not intended to speak more in the debate, but after the representative Tybring-Gjedde from the Progress Party was up here, I have to. I am very pleased that the representatives of the Progress Party in the Committee on Culture do not share the same opinion, as we see from the budget of the Progress Party. They have supported many of the different measures that Tybring-Gjedde says are customs, are subsidies and are the use of taxpayers' money. Nor is it the case that the Progress Party chooses not for the ‘most people’. I would say, as I said in my reply to the Progress Party: There are several areas in the cultural budget which are drastically cut off, and other measures are supported, often contrary to the traditions of Norwegian culture, of which the Progress Party is very concerned in its ‘cultural canon’. There have been drastic cuts in Sami cultural actions, not unexpected, actions under the Norwegian Cultural Council, the press, postage support and national institutions. And then you also take a grip on the large national institutions and you want to finance larger parts of the operation through increased ticket revenue. Is it helping people most? What the Progress Party is doing is clear to choose from this point of view here in this big room. It is the big politicians in the Progress Party who choose for the most people. You drastically cut into many things that "people most" are concerned about. It will be more expensive and more difficult to get cultural services over and above the whole country, and that is what is very important. Culture shall be accessible to all. Cultural diversity is by no means a matter of concern, and that is what is tragic about the policy of the Progress Party. You try to pretend that you're making the most of people, and then you leave out major groups in the Norwegian community that are very important to diversity and that are very important to our cultural development. I must say it is sad that we get such an end to this debate. I have had some respect for the fact that the Progress Party has actually had a cultural policy, but when I hear the speeches here from Tybring-Gjedde, I start to fool. At least the Progress Party does not agree on the cultural policy of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e2067	There are two things that have emerged in the debate that I would like to address. One is from Lund Bergo, about how important it is to have a width of the media offer. It is not certain that Lund Bergo and I are so terribly disagreeable, but the approach that the government parties now have to the entire media policy, I think, is a little daunting. We've seen that in a lot of other things as well, for example. related to political advertising. Lund Bergo's approach is kind of the fear that people are going to watch stupid TV shows. You might be worried about that, but I think the main challenge within the media world in terms of public broadcasting, for example, is that today we get so much media supply that you can't just choose programs that don't increase intelligence, but you can also choose programs that only satisfy your own views initially. There are some additional challenges for the public debate. For the public debate, it's kind of scary if we get a media world where we're not being challenged, a media world that doesn't have the goal of being part of the big media education process actually involves us. SV hangs here again in one, least of all, the 1980s thinking about what the media challenges are, and I think that's a little daunting. The second is, of course, the representative Tybring-Gjedde. I didn't think I would do that, but I actually want to have Tybring-Ged in the opera one night to see what kind of people are there. Because they're probably a little bit different. When I meet the father of Tybring-Gjedde at such performances, there's probably a slightly different composition there than Tybring-Gjedde thinks it is. This article I think shows that we have a good basis in the Left when we try to explain why government cooperation with the Advance Party is impossible, and when we frame culture as one of the most important things to show the differences between us. It's an approach to what cultural policy is, it's an approach to what formation is in a society, and it's an approach to what we politicians are going to be and develop, and what all citizens are going to be and develop, which is very far from liberal thinking. It's probably ideological, but it's quite far from most of the other parties here. So I still hope that the profile of the cultural representatives in the Committee on Culture is a little bit easier to discuss, whether there are also major disagreements and big differences. But the differences between the Left and the Advance Party are at least well shown in this Chamber once and for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e2079	Now several of the representatives in the Chamber have told us what disastrous cultural policy it will be with the Cultural Policy of the Progress Party. The representative Tybring-Gjedde talked about was freedom of choice. Yes, we cut, and we re-prioritize, but that would result in some disaster for Culture-Norway, I don't think it will. But not least, we dare to say that, we dare to say that we will re-prioritize. We dare say that it is not all the measures we want as much, and some measures do not necessarily need to be subsidized. It sounds like with a pen stroke, we set the cultural budget to zero. That's how you could almost interpret what the representative Molvær Grimstad said. That's not right at all. We'll cut 780 million. NOK – yes – of a total budget of SEK 4.6 billion. But I actually think that all of the representatives who have been up here now need to think a little bit about it. In fact, the Council of State spoke of that 460 million. kr more was the biggest investment in culture ever for a year. It may be, but it is the key of the Progress Party, thanks to it and the cooperation between the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and us at the time, which has contributed 400 millions of fresh cultural life a year. Then I think that the shells that are hailing over us now are really not deserved. I am relatively sure that the volunteer teams and organizations out there, who have enjoyed it very much, not least the cultural school bag, which has also enjoyed it very much, and all the artists who have been influenced by the fresh means that came, will probably think that the shells that have fallen over the Progress Party now are somewhat unfair.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e2084	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1416]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e2101	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1454]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e2118	I ask that the proposal be converted into a transmission proposal in line with what I said during the Odelsting case. In that post I also explained why it should be a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e2123	That's what's going to be done. [[Fotation, see page 1454]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e2140	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1454]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e2157	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1454]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e2174	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1454]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e2191	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 8 and 9 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it to be adopted. [[Fotation, see page 1454]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e2220	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e2227	I'm almost just going to touch on the matter I'm the case rapporteur for, for which there is a broad consensus behind, and which has been a very exciting matter. I want to start with Guedelon in France, in 1997. It started the construction of a difficult medieval castle. I was a medieval history fan, so that's why I pick this example. There you start building a castle to show what medieval life was like. It is still going on, because everything has to be done in a craftsmanship just as it was when people built in the Middle Ages. They have not come very far, but in 2005 there were 245,000 people visiting the castle to look at the craftsmanship that had been done. Then we are at the heart of the matter, that of taking care of craft traditions, of taking care of memories and of taking care of experiences and all that lies not only in things, but also around things. I think that most of the people in this room must admit that when the ABM message made a lot of important efforts in this area, this message was the great weakness – the intangible cultural heritage. Working on the ratification seems to me to have been exciting. It has raised many areas. It has been talked about being conscious not only of our craft traditions, which are so important to take care of, and which makes us realize that taking care of education in crafts is not only caring for jobs or caring for some workers today, but also caring for a cultural heritage we are obliged internationally to take care of. It's the same with the dance. It's easy to think if there's no one who thinks it's interesting to do folk dance, that it's just possible to cut the transfers. I know at least about one in the previous debate that had been willing to do so. But when you do that, you also cut the ties to that tradition, the history, the knowledge and all the dissemination that lie in the understanding of the dance and our folk dance – all the stories. What it might have been easier to understand is to take care of our folk music and all the sound experiences in it. As a woman, I have to say that I think this is particularly exciting work, because there is so much of the culture of women that is intellectual cultural heritage. There's so much of the story that's been preserved, which is also the story of women. So this is an important women's political issue to raise as well. As far as folk music is concerned, it's not just about keeping the music in claim and taking care of the sound, taking care of the notes and what's lying there, but it's also bringing it on as a living culture today. In this way, the national scene of folk music will be an important step in caring for what is in the Convention. It is important that this is maintained through use. The Convention sets out the clear expectation of registration, the upgrading of archives, digitisation and the setting of rates in these areas. The Committee has said that we expect the Council of State and the Government to come back to how it should be done. It is clear that I, who have traveled around many of these archives, for example. for folk music, they see that they're in a constitution that gives them some suspicious perspectives about how long this can last, and how much resources you actually need to take care of it. The left has added to this in the state budget, but there is a greater need for our folk music archives to be able to take care of them. There is a broad consensus on the connection. The progress party believes that it should not cost any money, but we just have to take that. The majority of the Committee would like to join and ratify the Convention. I think it's an exciting action, and I'm excited about how the Government will come back to the Storting, how we're going to upgrade, digitize our archives, how we're going to make records of this, and how we're going to come up with other measures to meet the Convention's intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e2250	The Government asks the Grand Duchy to ratify the UNESCO Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions. There is broad agreement on the conclusion of the Convention within the Committee. The Convention on Cultural Diversity was adopted at the UNESCO General Conference on 20 October 2005, which only two States voted against. The work on the Convention started in 2003 and has been actively supported by changing governments to bring about such a convention. In St.meld. No 19 for 2002–03 A world of opportunities, the then government was in favour of Norway actively participating in international work on protection and promotion of cultural diversity. In this context, it is important to stress the importance of the decision of the government of Stoltenberg that 2008 should be the year of cultural diversity here with us. The purpose of the Convention is to provide the Member States with real opportunities to develop a cultural policy based on a diversity of cultural expressions, and the ratification process is now under way in a number of countries, including the United States. in the EU. The Convention is considered a matter of great importance and therefore consent to ratification by the Storting is necessary in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution. The text of the Convention states that a diversity of cultural expressions is an important prerequisite for democracy, tolerance, social justice and mutual respect between peoples and cultures. It is also underlined that culture is important for social cohesion in general and is particularly noted that culture provides the opportunity to improve the status of women. There is also reason to note that the importance of copyright in supporting creative cultural activities is underlined. A diversity of cultural life, where different cultural expressions can be developed, is also an important basis for creating a better quality of art and culture. The Convention states that culture and cultural activity have two sides: economic and cultural, and that commercial considerations must not dominate cultural life. It is one of the most important perspectives of the Convention. The Convention argues that globalisation processes create new conditions for intercultural interaction. At the same time, the Convention stresses that this can be a challenge to cultural diversity, with a risk of imbalances between rich and poor countries. This is a focus that you must not lose sight of in the further work. The purpose of the Convention is set out in 35 articles such as: contains guiding principles, scopes and measures of the Convention. Similarly, the individual terms used in the Convention and the rules governing the rights and obligations of the parties are defined. The Convention has been consulted and 30 hearing bodies, including: six departments, as well as various organisations and institutions, have expressed their support for the draft text of the Convention. The Convention is based on a fundamental view of the importance of cultural diversity for democracy, development and interaction both locally, nationally and internationally. At the same time, it is important that the Convention underlines the importance of maintaining traditional cultural expressions in combination with increased transparency for a more varied and inclusive cultural society. It is also important that the Convention aims to protect vulnerable cultural expressions in developing countries through the framework provided for international work. An important proposal laid down in Article 18 of the Convention is the establishment of an international fund to promote cultural diversity. This fund is to be managed by an inter-ethnic committee, and there is reason to believe that the fund will be a good tool for our country's art and cultural life in an international and globalised world.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e2271	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 8 and 9. [[Footing, see page 1455]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e2287	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e2296	Today, we are discussing proposals by Mr Dahl, Mr Thommessen, Mr Gunnar Gundersen and Mr Aspaker on national anti-doping legislation. Representatives should welcome the fine initiative to put this matter on the agenda. The Family and Culture Committee has carried out a thorough examination of the matter. It has, among other things, a comprehensive and very interesting consultation has been held and an overall committee considers that there is every reason to conclude that doping has negative health aspects, both physically and mentally. In addition, there is much evidence that doping can contribute to increased violence and crime in society. The risk of increased aggression and violent behaviour is a problem that affects not only users but also their friends, families, jobs and society too. In recent years, there has been a growing recognition that effective fight against doping also requires an increased focus on doping abuse in training environments outside organised sport. While the use of doping in organised sport has received considerable attention, use in unorganised sports settings may seem to have increased. This may develop into a serious problem and require increased attention from the authorities. The Ministry of Culture and the Church, the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic Committee set up in 2003 the Antidoping Norway Foundation. The purpose of the establishment was to ensure that the control and prosecution activities of doping in sport were to be carried out independently of both sport and the State. Antidoping Norway is financed through a share of the drugs. Antidoping Norway has concluded agreements with a number of training centres on voluntary doping tests, as a result of which many training centres have an explicit desire to be free of doping. All parties outside the left look positive at this. I assume that the Left itself will explain its views on the matter. On behalf of the majority, I would like to stress that the anti-doping work outside the organised sport must have privacy, volunteering and information as central carriers. When the Data Protection Authority took a decision to stop the voluntary doping controls at Norwegian emergency centres, this put an end to the cooperation of Antidoping Norway with over 50 centres throughout the country and prevented an extension of the project. The Decision of the Authority was converted by the Data Protection Officer in Decision dated 14 September 2006. The decision opens up the possibility for the training centres to resume the voluntary testing scheme of their members. The majority believe that this system should continue, and we ask the Government to intensify anti-doping work, including outside organised sport, and in this context ensure that voluntary doping controls can be continued. The proposers call for a separate national anti-doping law to regulate the anti-doping work. According to the experience of the majority, there is an assessment of whether the criminal law should be extended in order to make it punishable by the use, possession, purchase and sale of drugs. The majority meet the conclusions of this assessment and hope that it can be presented to the Stortinge during the first half of 2007. However, we clarify that this work should not prevent the positive work being done on voluntary tests in the unorganised part of the sport. As long as this work focuses on information, volunteering and privacy, it must be seen as exclusively positive. The majority believe that anyone who wants to do so should have the right and the possibility to practice in a dope-free environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e2330	The left shares the intentions of the proposers and also the intention to have this as a matter of its own in the Storting, so that we can discuss this widely. We have two major concerns related to other consequences as well as the rapporteur. Of course, we are concerned about the purity of the organized sport, and we are concerned about the training studios – which parents are probably also anxious and concerned about. It is probably important that we be able to see what effective steps we can take without necessarily attacking privacy. Many of the activities organised by the sport, such as: in the case of sportsmen’s private lives and alert procedures, start to move up to the limit of what is acceptable for privacy reasons. So to the proposal of voluntary doping testing. For me it will only be a registration for the registration. No one should think that someone who is taking drugs wants to take a test voluntarily. Thinking that you should be able to reveal doping with voluntary tests is so naive that I really didn't expect us to have a big discussion about it. My question is then: why should you register those who do not, just to register everyone? It would be better to take other measures in the field of bans in relation to these substances and treat them differently from what you are doing today. Today, we have technological opportunities to register people that are much larger than the basis for making registers of people. I do not think there are any serious reasons why we should have a voluntary system that will lead to that type of registration. We in the left want to get a case on this. We see major problems in this area in terms of both organised and unorganised sport, but we see no need to take action to which the Data Protection Authority has been critical, such as the creation of a register – which we do not see as a basis for doing – on the basis of the people who are to be tested on a voluntary basis. We want to address our proposal in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e2343	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the proposal to which she referred. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1455]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e2354	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1-10.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e2362	During the debate, 40 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1, 8-12, 15 and 26-36, tabled by Mrs Knudsen on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2 and 16, by Olemic Thommessen, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 3, 14 and 18, by Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left, no. 4, 5 and 19-21, from May-Helen Molvær Grimstad on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 6, 7 and 23–25, from May-Helen Molvær Grimstad on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 13, 17 and 38-40, from May-Helen Molvær Grimstad on behalf of Christian People's Party proposal No. 22, from May-Helen Molvær Grimstad on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 37, from May-Helen Molvær Grimstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Before we vote on the proposals, the President will state that, in the course of the debate, a correction has been made in proposal No. 15) by Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 16, from the Right, proposal No. 17, from the Christian People's Party, and proposal No. Eighteen from the left. Under the hood. entry 70 of these proposals is replaced by the words ‘transferable’. The proposal Nos will first be voted on. 3, 14 and 18, from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e6020	The proposals Nos will then be put to the vote. 13, 17, 38, 39 and 40, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e7996	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 37 from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider measures to prevent the disappearance of district bookstores. A possible measure may be to test out a financial contribution to those who wish to invest in increased literary breadth in the store. The grant may be linked to the literature subscriptions and reserved for district bookshops.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e8011	The proposals No. 2 and 16, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e11603	There will then be a vote on the proposals No. 1, 8-12, 15 and 26-36, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e15182	There will then be a vote on the proposal No. 6, 7, 23, 24 and 25, from the Right, Christian Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e15224	There will be a vote on proposal No. 22, from the Party of Advancement, and from the Party of Christian Peoples.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e15242	There will be a vote on the proposals No. 4, 5, 19, 20 and 21, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e16944	The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e18888	The President assumes that the Advance Party wants to vote against. - It's nodding. The President also assumes that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left will now support the vote. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e18907	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Ulf Erik Knudsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget on 5 December 2006 ‘The Government asks the Government to review the law, with a view to revising the laws in question, in order to make it equal to forcible marriage if the marriage is ‘executed’. Attempts to arrange marriage under coercion must therefore be regarded as contributing to the rape.»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e18926	A vote shall be taken on the proposal made by Mr Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Party for Progress sent from the meeting of the Odelsting on 5 December 2006. In the course of the debate, the proposal has been converted into a transmission proposal and is amended to read as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government submit a proposal without delay that no family reunification be granted in Norway for married couples unless both spouses have reached the age of 24 years.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e18941	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Ulf Erik Knudsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget on 5 December 2006: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit without delay proposals to introduce the ability to live and to dispose of own suitable housing for the spouse concerned as a condition for family reunification in Norway with a foreign spouse.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e18960	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Ulf Erik Knudsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget on 5 December 2006: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose as soon as possible a general ban on the marriage of cousins with the possibility of a derogation for documented love marriages.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e18979	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Ulf Erik Knudsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget on 5 December 2006: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals as soon as possible to increase the penalties for violence and threats against its members of the family, with a view to influencing them for marriage.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e18998	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Ulf Erik Knudsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget on 5 December 2006: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit as soon as possible the necessary proposals to introduce mandatory health checks each year on pike and young women at risk of genital mutilation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e19048	During the debate, Mrs Skei Grande put forward a proposal on behalf of the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to intensify anti-doping work, even outside the organised sport.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-13.ana.ud1658e19077	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - It hasn't happened.
