ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e70	The representative of Arne Sortevik will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e73	On behalf of the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Per Sandberg, Kenneth Svendsen and myself, I have the pleasure of presenting proposals for an assessment of transport measures that can ensure island communities and coastal communities better economic value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e78	The representative of Gunvald Ludvigsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e81	On behalf of the representatives of Trine Skei Grande, Odd Einar Dørum, Gunn Berit Gärde and myself, I am delighted to propose a private proposal for a new financing model for cultural buildings in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e86	The representative of Inge Wohnning will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e89	On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Torbjørn Hansen, Petter Løvik and myself, I am delighted to make suggestions on measures to improve food safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e94	The representative, Elisabeth Aspaker, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e97	On behalf of the representatives of André Oktay Dahl, Olemic Thommess and myself, I am delighted to propose combating sexual abuse against children with a particular focus on children and the increased use of new electronic media by young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e103	The representative André Oktay Dahl will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e106	On behalf of the representatives of Elisabeth Aspaker, Gunnar Gundersen, Olemic Thommessen and myself, I have delighted to propose national anti-doping legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e111	The representative of Gunnar Kvassheim will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e114	On behalf of the representatives of Gunn Berit Gjerde, Lars Sponheim, André N. Skkelstad and myself, I am delighted to propose to adjust the amounts of the employer’s tax exemption for paid work for charitable or non-profit institutions or organisations in line with the general wage increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e119	The Representative Modify Skervø will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e122	On behalf of the representatives of Harald T. Nesvik, Vigdis Giltun, Jan Henrik Fredriksen and the undersigned, it is proposed to establish a new coordinated compensation scheme for those infected with hepatitis C through blood transfusions in the Norwegian health system, in line with the recommendation of the Hepatitis C Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e127	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e141	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines within the allocated speaking time of up to five lines after the intervention of the Council of State. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e150	In the context of the 2006 state budget, 320 million were allocated. kr for the start and implementation of the NAV reform in 2006. This is an important reform which, through cooperation between the social security system, the employment offices and the municipal social services, will facilitate to help those who need it, through a swirling jungle of rules that have until now been closed by watertight bulkheads between the same levels. The Government has carried out a review and an overall assessment of the implementation activities of the NAV reform based on updated plans and budget appropriations for 2006. The review shows that if you want to follow the implementation plan, you will have to make decisions that will impose a significantly higher amount than 320 million. kr. Without an acceleration of additional appropriations for 2006, the implementation of the NAV reform will be postponed in time. It is particularly important that the ICT platform be put in place, and significant costs of investigation not covered by the project are assumed. The implementation of the project requires a large number of interdependent activities to be carried out at the same time. A slower implementation of the NAV reform than that envisaged by the Storting will involve the possibility of timely shifting of profit and better efficiency in terms of efficiency. review in St.prp. No 1st@item: It is therefore a unanimous committee that recommends the proposed allocation. However, there is a basis for some comments. Already after approx. Three months the Government will come back to the Storting to ask for more money for the project for 2006, and not enough that there is an increase in the budget, but the gap is within three months of over 100 pst. Although the costs in the budget position that were discussed in December about the state and local authorities' share of the NAV reform, which was a prerequisite for the start of the reform in 2006, I believe that a bomb of over 100 pst was an estimate. is quite drowsy. The Progress Party is strongly critical of the fact that the cost calculations for the implementation of the reform are proving to be so flawed in a short time. There is therefore reason to ask the Government to follow closely in the further progress of the reform, and not least on the cost side. The total cost of the reform is estimated to be approximately Three billion kroner. To get on with the NAV reform, a total of 696.5 million is needed. in 2006, in addition to the municipality’s share. The Progress Party assumes that the increase in the 2006 budget is not an increase in the overall framework, but only a shift in appropriations in time. Furthermore, the Party further assumes that the cost of developing ICT is quality assured in such a way that no excess costs are incurred. On this basis, as said, the Progress Party supports the Government's proposal for additional appropriations of 376.5 million. to implement the NAV reform in 2006. For the sake of order, I would like to mention that there is only an increase in the budget we are now discussing, and that it is not a new consideration of the matter in itself. Therefore, the Progress Party does not promote its alternative proposals which were considered when the reform was debated, such as: the good proposal that social services should be transferred to the State. Of course, we will come back to this when the law comes to treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e171	Implementing a reform of labour and welfare management has been a cross-political wish for several years. Many in Norway are involuntarily out of work. There are many who passively receive social benefits, and who would rather have wanted to be active. Today, people are being followed up by different agencies, and more people experience falling between systems and legislation. Meeting people with a single instrument is therefore a necessity to realise the goal of getting more people in activity and in work. That is why there is also a strong need for reform of the agencies to manage these instruments. The NAV reform has been delayed and its establishment is now due to take place. For the Workers' Party, it is important that the reform be implemented at the scheduled pace, that the ICT system be put in place, that the actual merger take place, and that offices be established in the municipalities. There are high expectations of the country-wide reform among local and regional staff, and not least among many of those who are to benefit from the services provided by the NAVs and who need these services. If the reform is to be successful, we need progress, and that is what we are dealing with today. The Progress Party expresses in the form of a note, and now at the representative Kenneth Svendsen, strong criticism that the Government is asking for additional appropriations now. It kind of surprises me. The size has been made aware of the uncertainties surrounding the cost of the reform on several occasions, including: through the call for a new labour and welfare management and this year's government budget. The size has therefore been aware that additional appropriations would be needed to implement the reform. Now that we have a matter of just a supplementary grant, it cannot come as a surprise. The fact that the reform is resource-intensive has never been in doubt. It will therefore also be necessary in the future to carry out assessments in relation to progress and costs. The size has wanted, and has decided, that the NAV reform should be implemented, and then the Storting must also take on the obligations of the decision. The Labour Party is looking forward to the reform being launched now. It will be difficult to implement, but it is absolutely necessary. All the projects and trials that have already been carried out show that by working together, by thinking new and together, results are obtained. We therefore support the assessment made by the Government about the need for additional appropriations, because we need to follow the implementation plan as it stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e184	The size shall today consider and adopt an additional allocation to implement the so-called NAV reform. It also gives us the opportunity to comment on the challenges faced by this reform. We have recently carried out a relatively large travel activity to various offices around the country, looking at how this work goes along the way and meeting local forces within both the Aetat, the Social Security Agency and the social services of the municipalities. It is true that there are great expectations of this reform, and that, as we have been able to record, there is a positive willingness to try to implement it in accordance with the intentions of the Stortinget when the reform was adopted. Therefore, it is important that we adopt today the additional appropriations to which we are invited by the Government, simply to keep pace and not lose momentum in the matter. Reforms of this size and this type are demanding. It is always the case that reforms and transformations have the potential to be a major success, but also a thunderous failure. We know from experience that in the event of major changes and reforms, what is counter-forced can create problems along the way. Therefore, I think it is very important that the Storting is quite clear that the reform should be carried out in accordance with the assumptions and intentions that were the whole basis for the decision on this reform, namely that it should be a user-oriented reform, where the user's needs are put into focus, and where the individual does not become a caste between different state and municipal systems and be sent from office to office. That's the very basic idea. In addition, it is very important to focus on the line of work, to give all those who can and will a new chance to move from social security to activity and work. These two basic assumptions are absolutely essential for this to be the success that we all hope for. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State and the new government continue the work done by the previous government, and with such great commitment it intends to carry out the reform and keep pace. I just want to remind you – once I have registered joy over it – that it was the previous co-operation government and the then Social Minister Ingerd Schou who made a proposal and was adopted by a broad majority of the Stortinget. We come from the Right to follow this reform work with the arctic eyes of the future and to be a constructive co-player to help make this the success that the welfare society actually needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e197	This is the biggest administrative reform we have implemented in very many years. It covers approx. 12000 State employees and 4000 municipal employees. That means there's a very demanding process we're in now. That is why, with a little surprise, I hear that the Progress Party repeats the criticism that they also have in the vote, from the Chair today. I see the criticism as groundless. This appropriation is not a crack, as it is described. The appropriations are necessary in order to implement the reform that we all agree on and that we will succeed, precisely because the reform is for those who have the most difficulty in this country. That's why we actually have to do this job properly. It was warned that the need for funding was uncertain. This government and this majority have no intention of spending more money than is necessary on the administrative part of the reform. It's important. But it is necessary to establish both an organisation and an ICT system that works for these three floors. It's demanding. We have had a lot of things like this before, where it has proved difficult both to calculate in advance and to make it go well along the way. So that's maybe an area we're all excited about. Not least, it is incredibly important to put in place the building of skills in these departments, because it is going to be a demanding job for those who are going to work here, to succeed in meeting the users who need help both to get an income insurance they can live from, to get into activity, to habilitate and rehabilitate their lives, and also to get to work. It is important that we do that job properly, because it is an important prerequisite for meeting the user and helping the user through the twisted maze it might be to get into a different situation of life, that those who are going to help have the security and competence in the job they are going to do. I am absolutely sure that through a content reform, we are able to give them tools, tools and levers to make the job more flexible than today. It's like the success factors to succeed. This appropriation is necessary. We need to monitor closely that we do not spend more resources than is necessary for the administrative reform. It is incredibly important now that there is also financial room for inclusion in the NAV reform, which means that we have something to offer to the users who come there and need either empowerment, social follow-up or help to secure their income in the future. Therefore, there is a unanimous committee recommending this, and there is no need to criticise the Government for the way it has handled this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e210	When Stortinget adopted the state budget for the current year, it was granted 320 million. D to the NAV reform. However, the draft budget of both the Bondevik II Government and the additional proposal of the Stoltenberg Government indicated that further proposals for funding would be included in the revised national budget for 2006. The Christian People's Party supports the Government's proposal that an additional 376.5 million be allocated. kr for the reform. We will commend the Minister of Labour and Inclusion for holding the adopted implementation plan for the NAV reform at the time of the presentation of the forecast of spillovers we are now debating. A slower implementation of the NAV reform than has so far been achieved by the accumulation and government will mean that the opportunities for profit and better efficiency are pushed out in time. A shift in the progress plan could also undermine the reform and weaken motivation and digestion in relation to the conversion work. It is therefore important to keep the progress plan. The Christian People's Party has great expectations of the new labour and welfare management. The NAV reform facilitates a better and holistic follow-up for each user. You get one case handler to deal with, and you can use the forces to build a better future – not to argue with different case handlers who draw in their own direction. I am convinced that the new welfare management will provide many better opportunities to find a way out of unemployment. Nevertheless, there is reason to point out the need for sound administrative, professional and economic governance in the implementation phase of the reform. Close follow-up is very important when establishing common IT systems. We know that there is a high risk associated with this type of project, and it is imperative to avoid misinvestment and budget excesses. The processes must be both sober and focused on the need for good and stable procedural systems. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we will follow closely the implementation of the reform. For us, it is important to avoid this becoming exclusively an administrative reform. The very basis for the NAV reform is the consideration of users, and we expect this to permeate all choices in the implementation phase. It is also important to avoid delaying the reform process by arguing between professionals and fighting for positions. In order to achieve the objective of dealing with users as whole people with different needs, it is not least important to include user representatives in the implementation phase. They could provide useful corrections and memories of where the focus should be – on users. But of course, it is also important that employee organisations are included in this work in a good way. For us in the Christian People's Party, it is very important to clarify that the former employees of the social security system, the Aetat and social security system are undoubtedly the most important resource of the new labour and welfare administration. If we do not have the employees on the team, we will not succeed in achieving the goal of the reform. Should the NAV reform be the success that we in the Christian People's Party both hope and believe it will be, wide political support and support are needed in the important implementation phase now under way. In our view, this can best be ensured through broad and ongoing information from the Council of State to the Stortingen on work. Finally, I would like to congratulate the Minister for Labour and Inclusion on the demanding, but not least very important, work on the NAV reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e233	Half of the population is affected by the implementation of the NAV reform. The establishment of a new labour and welfare management is, as has been said before, one of the largest administrative reforms we have undertaken here in the country. In the past, the size has given broad support to the reform. I said half of the population is affected by the reform and is therefore dependent on successful implementation. It is also the case that it is the most difficult ones who get worse if we do not succeed in this promise. Too many people of working age are out of work. Today's organisation of our work and welfare management is not well enough designed to help people into the working world or into other building activities for themselves and for society. Users too often meet with a fragmented administration, and the many in need of help and assistance are easily thrown into social security, labour market and social services. Both the current and previous Governments have made it clear in their budget proposals that it will be necessary to return to the Stortinget with an overall NAV allocation proposal for the current year. In this way, today’s treatment is not surprising — it is foreseen. So, of course, we could wish that it wouldn't have been necessary to double the appropriations, so that together we'd get up to nearly 700 million. kr for 2006. However, it is far better that we make the additional appropriations than that, in the start-up of the NAV reform, we are already putting the brakes on. The NAV reform is implemented in a partnership between state and local authorities. It is in itself challenging, but a proper model because our welfare policy is so broadly anchored in our three levels of government. 19 NAV pilots have just been selected, one in each state, where the welfare office of the future will now be tested. By 2010, all municipalities shall have NAV offices. It is important that these NAV pilots enter into service as soon as possible and that this does not stop because the appropriations do not extend. The pilots will provide us with experience that will be central to ensuring the smooth and efficient operation of the 415 NAV offices to be established from 2007 onwards and towards the final establishment of the NAV reform in 2010. Government and political leadership – in the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion in particular – have a heavy responsibility to ensure the proper implementation of the NAV reform, while remaining within the budgetary framework of the Stortinge in the coming years. The additional appropriations we give today are large, but at the same time announced, and are therefore correct and sound.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e248	Today’s welfare state existed at a time when the majority’s standard of living was low. The arrangements that were right then are not necessarily the right ones at a time when the majority lives in prosperity, while a minority falls outside. We have a lot of challenges. A growing group of disadvantaged long-term unemployed have poor living conditions. In the largest cities, people live under problematic conditions, with intoxication and mental illness. Many fall between two chairs because they do not fit into any of the public services providing assistance. For the Left, it is a particular responsibility to see and listen to these when society is reformed, and it is here that the strongest welfare effort now has to come. A society is no better than the offer it gives its weakest. Norway spends over 100 billion dollars a year on social security for people of pre-employment age. Social security expenditure is increasing every year, and every five persons of working age have social security as their main source of income. We have more disabled people than industrial workers in Norway. At least the same number are at any time out of work or away from work, either because they get sick pay, are unemployed, are reintroducing or get social assistance. This makes it visible that we do not have the power to prevent an increasing number of people from falling out of work and becoming social welfare recipients. More people in work and less on social benefits are absolutely essential in order for us to be able to maintain our welfare systems in the future. It requires reforms of today’s welfare country. But we also have to take inwards that not everyone can work, and they have to get a worthwhile offer. The left is therefore a driver of the NAV reform. There is a need for co-location, so that there is one door to the labour and welfare services. Only genuine cross-demarcation cooperation can guarantee citizens’ rights in relation to the public. It is therefore important that the NAV reform be implemented in line with the planned progress. Therefore, the Left also supports the allocation of resources in advance of the revised national budget. Employers have a great responsibility to facilitate the widest possible employment. The public should have numerical objectives for better recruitment of people who have difficulties entering the labour market. Education is the single factor most protecting against unemployment and poverty. There is also a documented link between low education and poor health, the use of social services and a weak position in the labour market. Qualifying measures and education are one of the most important means of getting people to work. That is why we need to adapt these measures more to the individual than we do at present. The system of disability benefits must also be reformed. The left wants a new system of disability benefits that is adapted both to the pension reform and that addresses the Left's thinking on the pay of citizens. The left will also consider a reduction in the employer’s fee for enterprises that employ people with special needs. One final point I would like to raise here is that the partnership between the municipality and the state in relation to the NAV reform needs to be clarified as quickly as possible. I have received messages from Kommune-Norge around where we have already started discussing how this cooperation will work, and who will pay what. This may be a sign that the information does not necessarily flow as intended. I hope that the Council of State will have an active dialogue with the municipalities, which I also believe, and that this reform will not be a reform that will be trampled on over the municipalities, but a reform based on that partnership and cooperation project.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e265	Let me first say that what is very important about the NAV reform is that there is much political consensus about it. One might say that the previous government did an important job of finally adopting a reform here in the United Kingdom, and I believe that in the new government we have taken it on board and tried to follow up the reform work as best we can. I believe that it is essential if we are to succeed in such a major and comprehensive reform that it is a broad political uprising. I would like to agree with many of the assessments made by the representative Engeset in his speech, that if we do not keep pace here, and if political Norway does not agree on the project we have now undertaken, it will be a very demanding implementation. That's going to be it anyway, but at least it's going to be very hard. I would like to remind you, as many people have said, that this is a reform affecting 12,000 state employees, and there are a minimum of 4000 municipal employees affected by it. The new NAV will manage one third of the State budget through various grant schemes and over half of Norway’s population will have some relationship with NAV during normal years. So it's a very big administrative reform. The starting point for us to succeed in this, I think, is that political Norway is united, that we are committed to keeping progress, and that we are committed to keeping momentum in the matter. Then it is important for me to say that, when the Stortinges deal with the implementation of the NAV reform decision, it has always been expressed that there is an uncertainty about the costs. Then NAV Interim, the directorate preparing for implementation, was established on 22 August last year. They were immediately given the task of ensuring the quality of the costs. They had come no further than that the previous government in its State budget proposal made it clear that much was suggesting that the proposed level of funding was too low and that this would be brought back in revision. Then there was a government change, and we repeated the same in our supplementary proposal to the state budget. I had a close process with NAV Interim, which led to a quality assurance plan for costs before the new year in 2006, which made it clear that we had a total allocation need of nearly 700 million. kr. The thing that also became clear was that it would be too late under the government's budgetary regulations to come back with it in the revised, therefore this additional proposition. So, of course, the government has a challenge in financing the increased costs, and it's going to be revised. I agree with the representative Svendsen that it is important now to focus on the total costs. The number that's used about the total cost of the documents so far is about NOK 3 billion. We are now working in close dialogue with NAV Interim to ensure that this amount is also fully secured. I will come to Stortinget with an assessment of it in the 2007 draft budget. Many have commented on the content of NAV, what we are going to get out of NAV, how NAV should give us the opportunity to reorganise ourselves – get more people working and less on social benefits. All of this we will come back to the harvest. In this way, we aim to provide a communication to the Stortinget on work, welfare and inclusion, where we go into it in depth, as a brief, in a way that can be said to be the content of NAV, and with a review of the instruments. Before that time, Stortinget will be considering the proposal for a new NAV law. In many ways, largeing and oodelsting will now have to address challenges related to NAV. I very much agree with the representative of Skkelstad, who said in his post that cooperation with the municipalities is a key point here. Therefore, we will now immediately sign the cooperation agreement between the State and the Municipalities' Central Association.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e280	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e284	We have been critical of the increase in budget appropriations that have come after just a short period of time, three months. Several speakers have said that they do not understand the criticism, but it was actually stated in the budget paper that we were dealing with before Christmas that we should come back with this in the revised budget. And the revised budget comes in May and will be discussed in June. So it's only been three months. I think the Council of State has given a good explanation for this, but my question is: does this mean that you will not come back with additional appropriations in addition to this in the revised budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e291	State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, the new arrangement is that when you get a line after making a statement, you have to use the pulpit that is closest to the president's office, when you reply to the reply. The one that takes a line should be on the opposite side. There was some trouble in the exchange – there are obviously transitional problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e296	OK – I got a little confused, but I almost didn't think I could replace the representative from the pulpit. That's why I chose the chair that was available. I got a very specific question, and the answer is yes. That means we're going to bring more into the revised budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e303	The NAV reform involves close cooperation between the State and the primary municipalities. According to the reform progress plan, at the turn of the year 2005/2006, a cooperation agreement between the State and the Municipal Councils on the further work on the reform has to be concluded. However, the Storting has not received any information about this from the Government. I understand that the agreement may not have been signed yet. My question will then be: how will the Government inform the Storting about the cooperation agreement with KS, and in what way will the Stortinge will be briefed on the reform work ahead?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e310	We agree with the KS on a cooperation agreement. It is not formally signed, but it has more to do with the meeting book of the Council of State and the meeting book of the KS-leader than anything else. We therefore agree on a cooperation agreement. I agree with Woie Duesund that it is important that I keep the Storting getting very good information about what is happening. The first opportunity I get to work on this in a good way will be in dealing with the proposal for a revised national budget, which comes in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e317	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Labour and Inclusion a question. There St.meld. No 14 for 2002–03, a communication on the coordination of Aetat, the social security system and social services, was sent back to the government because it was not satisfied with what was in it. The reason for sending it back again was that the ‘order’ from the Storting to come back with a proposal for a single establishment was not fulfilled by the government and the then Social Minister Ingerd Schou. My question to the Council of State that is responsible for this now is: After the change of government, has a new assessment been made of this to include the social service of the municipalities – instead of simply co-localising it? Now is the time right there. It can be done, among other things: the coordination of computer systems and other information systems. Can you include this now, instead of having to do it again? Has the Council of State been willing to reconsider whether social services should also come in here?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e326	After that announcement from the then State Council Ingerd Schou was sent back to the government, a considerable amount of work was done in the government. A public authority promoted a NOW. The new Minister of Social Affairs, Dagfinn Højbrätten, presented a staging proposition to the Stortinget, who received a thorough treatment. There was a broad majority – largely – for the scheme proposed by the government. The new government is continuing this work, with the basis of this treatment. We are completing the work on the reform, in line with what the Stortinget has adopted. We have not started a process to assess whether we should do this differently from what the Stortinge decided – as far as I remember – in the spring of 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e333	I noted with interest that the Council of State in its main post chose the use of the word ‘we aim to’ to provide a big message about work, inclusion and welfare for the autumn. In the realization that it is rarely entirely random how state councils express themselves in the staging room, I am interested to hear if there is a certain reservation on the timing of this, because alternatively, the council could have said: We want to send a big message to the autumn. Is there some uncertainty about the time, or was it not a deliberate choice of words when he said "we're looking at"?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e340	The rumor of how precise you speak at all times is probably exaggerated. We will present a big message for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e345	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e350	I guess most of it's actually said in this case. However, I would like to stay a little at the note of the Progress Party. There's a big reform we're talking about, and it's urgent to get it in place. The timetable is tight. Everyone agrees. Today's supplementary appropriations for 2006 are not due to miscalculations in the budget, as the Progress Party is trying to make it. This is due to the pace at which the reform is carried out. When the Progress Party says that ‘these members are strongly critical of the fact that the cost calculations for the implementation of the reform are soon to prove to be so erroneous’, my claim is that it is the content of the comment that is incorrect. That's not true, because it was announced in the budget. The Progress Party also knows that. It is enough to refer to the remarks made in the 2006 budget position, where an overall committee refers to the draft budget of 320 million. Having regard to the Ministry's statement of the need for additional appropriations, ‘It is therefore necessary to clarify in the revised budget the economic situation of the NAV reform.’.» That was also the point made by the Party of Advancement. The party of progress says otherwise that they are opposed to insidiousness and bureaucracy in the administration. Therefore, I think that the Progress Party should rather praise a minister who is running at the pace that the Minister of Labour and Inclusion is now doing, to actually get to the Stortingen a little out of step, even before the revised national budget, as it was forewarned. In fact, that pace should be glad of a lot of progressing party hearts. So Kenneth Svendsen said that the Progress Party comes back to the question of the government of the social offices in the next round, but it was nevertheless affected by Harald T. Nesvik in his reply to the Council of State. Once again, I must be allowed to say that I am a little surprised by the Progress Party, which, from its point of view, as an opponent of bureaucracy, has in response to most things that state-making and centralisation are the instrument. We've seen that in our old age policy. And now we also see that in this area. Publicisation of social services is in a way the instrument. I am convinced, on my side, that the users we are talking about here are totally dependent on a living local democracy and on active local politicians who are genuinely concerned about the success of the NAV reform out there. It is the politicians who are closest to the user, not us.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e369	I must clearly have pressed a sore toe, since the Workers' Party and SV saw that the degrees are decreasing in our criticism of the economic development of the project. In fact, the normal thing is to adopt a budget in December, and then we have a revision of the budget in June. The proposition also says that's what you're going to do. However, three months after the budget has been adopted, an additional appropriation far higher than the original budget must be made. If you don't respond, it'll be amazing. Then one goes in that the Progress Party obviously wants more bureaucracy etc., and one drags this with freedom of choice within the care of the elderly into this. In fact, the Progress Party does not want any more bureaucracy. We want the elderly in this country to be allowed to choose a nursing home, just as you choose a hospital. It has nothing to do with bureaucracy, it has to do with freedom of choice for the individual. So it's drawing in to focus on local democracy and the social offices. For us, it's important that those who need social assistance in this country actually get the same offer no matter which municipality you live in. It should not be that you get less help to cover your food costs in a municipality that is run in such a way that you have poor advice, than you get in the neighboring municipality that has run its economy in a good way. We want equal treatment for all the inhabitants of the country. They're just as valuable to the Progress Party, whether you live in the Church or you live in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e380	It seems that the Progress Party has not been given the reason for the additional appropriations to come. The additional appropriations are now due to the need for it to come now in order to keep pace with the reform. If we hadn't done this now, you'd have to put on the brakes. I don't think it would've gotten cheaper. It had at least become a lot more difficult. I've been sitting on the Stortinget for almost nine years, and for all nine years we've been talking about this way of reforming this tool. Now people are ready to do it. Pulling the brakes for a period of time would be very harmful. It will also be what the Progress Party is now saying that they could imagine, that we should even start a whole new reform that goes beyond what the Biggest thing meant in ours. Reforming it all over again would necessarily have cost more money and took even longer. I therefore think that the criticism they are now bringing against the Government is quite premature. This is to be carried out at the pace at which the Stortinget has been presented with the implementation of the reform and at which the entire organisation is prepared. That is why the appropriations are now coming and will be financed in the revised budget. There is therefore no reason for criticism, either because you are warned about it or because you fulfill what the Storting has adopted, and that the Government is following up. The consequence of doing what the Progress Party now wants would have been that at least for a period of time the brakes had to be applied. I don't think the Progress Party wants that either.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e389	I don't think the representative Karin Andersen has got what we're dealing with right now. It's actually the fact that the Progress Party is involved in this extra funding with the reason we've been given. What we have put on a critical searchlight is the fact that the government itself has said that it will come back with this in revision, but it will come back after three months. We put a critical search light on that. If you had had a full overview, had a good planning, you would have come back with it in revision. That is what we are finding. But we've heard the explanation that the Council of State has given, and of course we're on the map, so that it should go just as fast. The fact that the representative Karin Andersen now says that the Progress Party is not involved in this must be a total misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e396	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1891]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e412	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 35 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each lot. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines within the allocated speaking time of up to five lines after contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e421	The starting point for point 1 of this case is the Budget-inner. S. No 11 for 2005-2006, Cape. 710 National Institute of Public Health, where the Health and Welfare Committee asked the Ministry of Health and Welfare to submit a case on pneumococcal vaccine for children. The government has followed up the Committee's call, and in St.prp. No 39 for 2005-2006, pneumococcal vaccination for all children born on or after 1 January 2006 is proposed and this vaccination is to be integrated into the general paediatric vaccination system in the municipalities. The new vaccination supply is already banned in the municipalities. A group of committees asked to introduce this vaccine for children and that the local health service should be obliged to include it in the existing vaccination programme. The Committee notes that the Government’s proposal will cover all children born from 1 January 2006. This means that the annual seed born after 1 July 2004 and in 2005 will not be covered by the Pneumococcal Free Vaccine Offer. If parents of these children want the vaccine, they have to cover the expenses themselves. The latter has resulted in the fact that the Committee’s members from the Right, the Christian People’s Party and the Left have an own proposal asking the Government to consider extending the supply of these children in the context of the 2006 revision of the national budget. In this context, I refer to proposal No. 1 in the option. The Progress Party also has its own suggestions. I refer you to the suggestion No. 2 and No 3 in the setting. Point 2 of the substance currently applies to corrected balance sheet requirements for regional health enterprises as a result of increases and unexpected pension costs in health enterprises. The increase in costs is about DKK 1 billion compared to 2005. A comprehensive committee is in agreement with the Government that it is not advisable to include the additional pension costs in the balance sheet requirement for health enterprises for 2006. The Committee's plurality, the members of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, nevertheless state that it is not satisfactory that the matter of this billion is concealed in a matter which is essentially about pneumococcal vaccines. I also refer to special comments from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, from the Progress Party and from the Government fraction. Finally, I will present to the Right, the Christian People's Party, and the Left's proposal: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider extending the offer of free pneumococcal vaccine for children born in 2004 and 2005 in connection with the submission to the Revised National Budget for 2006’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e443	The representative of Gunvald Ludvigsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e446	It is very positive that the government has been so quick to promote the proposal we are dealing with today on pneumococcal vaccine. It has been known from 2001, when the vaccine was introduced in the United States, that there was an effective vaccine that has produced good results there. This has been investigated in the years since, by the current governments, reports have been requested, etc., but no proposals have been made until the case has now come up in connection with, among other things. the budgetary procedure last autumn. The fact that we have a government that is so powerful that you get this out in four months, which comes with the money and says that this should be introduced from 1 July, we have reason to be satisfied with and proud of. Then comes the suggestion that you include more and include those who are up to two years old. There are clearly arguments for that, but there are also questions about whether it is not better to get started. There's something that says we shouldn't do the very best for the good enemy. It's about being able to decide to get started from time to time without creating new and unnecessary complications. What's going to apply if you now expand this to a lot more is that expenditure will increase. You'll probably need 75 million. There will be a longer ordering period for the medicines needed to start from 1 July, and there will be more difficult questions regarding prioritisation and implementation around the municipalities to deal with this. There has now been a system for many years when parents who want the medicine pay. For some it will last a little longer. First of all, it's great that the government has got this started, and that a total accumulation joins in. The second thing in the proposition, about the hospital economy, has the same problem: the government is doing something good, everyone is saying yes and joining it. In addition to this pension balance sheet requirement, the government has announced a faster creation of the bias distribution, which has already begun in relation to the promise of 140 million. kr per. years to St. Olav's Hospital. You've given 500 million. More this year to treat 20,000 more patients, it has been said to return to the hospital economy in the revised budget, and other measures have been taken in relation to St. Olav’s Hospital, such as financing the first construction step of SEK 2.9 billion by Christmas, which was actually due in 2007. It has been said that patients' rights apply, and that if problems arise in relation to treating well enough, where patients do not get their rights within the deadline, the patient's right law is to apply. There is a safe management of the hospital economy. A lot has happened in a short time. Then we should be able to say that it is good what the Government is bringing now, and then we will come with the next step in the revised budget and in the budget for 2007. It is well known that appropriations for Norwegian hospitals have increased steadily under varying governments and oppositions — by 2.5 pst. per 1 % years over many years. From the mid-1990s we have become number two in the world in terms of the share we use of gross domestic product in healthcare and hospitals. It is also important to inspire those who run good financial management, those who take advantage of the gradual and positive increase in hospital funding. I've been involved in the situation at the Rikshospitalet-Radium Hospital. They need to be more efficient for 380 million. kr in year. They think they'll do it. It's important that the Storting inspires that kind of work and says it's good, and not just creates the impression that concerns about financial management and unrest over whether you want to cut down or cut down, a crisis maximisation, will give the best score. I think the government is about to do a good job at these two points we are dealing with today, and hope that we can get together about it on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e461	Keeping an understanding of justice and non-discrimination towards the population from the Storting and this room is very important. What we adopt has consequences for large groups of the population. The fairness and non-discrimination of this case are not followed up. If the Government's position is adopted today, this is a gross outrage to large sections of the population, to children with parents who will be particularly affected, but also to all today's children and parents in general who are out there, for this is unfair. We need equal treatment. Who's hit by cerebral inflammation is actually nothing the Storing can decide. What we are adopting, on the other hand, is to a large extent who is not being hit. For those who are hit, it's tragic exits. We can experience death, or we can experience disability for life. These are possible outcomes of an infection. As the government adds, this is a parental responsibility for those who have children between 6 and 24 months of age per. 1 July 2006. In fact, the government believes that the economic situation of parents is the determining factor in whether or not the child is vaccinated. Is this a non-discrimination of our citizens in Norway? Why is that so? I'm talking about a group of almost 90,000 children who are between 6 and 24 months of age. Is it that money weighs more than the health we give? What the company that's going to deliver the vaccines says is that they can deliver enough vaccines if you want to. Then, at the end of the day, economic considerations go beyond giving a fair and proper health care to them. We also have another side of this matter. Normally, politicians are not necessarily professionals. It is therefore very important for us to listen to what professionals say. According to the State Institute of Public Health, as many cases of severe systemic pneumococcal disease, or meningitis, are reported in children aged 12 to 24 months as in children under one year of age. However, severe pneumococcal disease appears to decrease in the group over 24 months. The Public Health Institute also asks the Government to follow up with a strong recommendation to actively offer free vaccination of the KVP-7 to children between two years of age and school age. Nothing of what the Institute of Public Health recommends is being followed up by the Government. What, then, is this government going to do with professionals? We do not get a majority in favour of our proposal, and since we do not, the Progress Party will subsidiaryly support the proposal of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. On behalf of the Progress Party, I propose the following proposals, which have also been included in the vote: ‘The Government asks the Government to extend the offer of pneumococcal vaccines so that all children under the age of 2 are offered free pneumococcal vaccination by 1 July 2006.’;»The Government asks the Government to follow the strong recommendation of the Swedish Institute of Public Health to actively offer free pneumococcal vaccines to children from 2 years of age up to school age who have diseases causing them to be at risk during the period of full coverage of the vaccination programme.»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e483	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e486	First of all, what's in the proposition. I am pleased that the Progress Party will vote in a subsidiary way for the proposal from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The reason why we have made that proposal is that information has been provided during the Committee's proceedings to the effect that there is reason to ask the Council of State to consider once until the estimate made by the Ministry regarding the possibility of supplying sufficient vaccine doses in due time. The second thing that has raised some doubts is the financial estimate that the ministry has taken for its position, based on the fact that hundreds of percent of the parents who would get the offer would make use of it. All experience from similar cases in the past suggests that it is too high an estimate. Therefore, there is reason to ask the ministry to go through this again. I find some reason to comment on the posts of the representative, because it was made according to the pattern "all that fattens – or nuts? – do, is right.’ It must be a pleasure for the Council of State to have such strong support. At the same time, I have to say that it is admirable how fast you can learn new roles. If there are anyone who has experience in crisis maximising, it is the representative of Bohemia in his former existence as an opposition representative. Now the roles are the other way around, and you're obviously learning to be satisfied with little, because all that Boehler listed up, just shows that the only government has done so far, is push all of his election vows in front of him, and push it far into the blue when and if they're going to be fulfilled. Let me remind the representative Bøhler that in the last period – no more than one year ago – the figures from his own party, the Workers' Party, were the most violent accusations against the then Council of State because the two billions were being put in balance. It was called a scandal. Everyone who listened had to believe that the Workers' Party's opinion was that if you got the responsibility yourself, you would immediately do what you criticized the former Council of State for not doing. I have not registered a single sign that the current Council of State intends to do something about this. In the case of the one billion who suddenly appeared as a troll of ashes in December last year, the Council of State has done nothing but forward the information to the Stortinget. She has not given a single indication of how she intends to deal with this problem. The only thing she's said is that she can't handle it that way, that it's introduced as a requirement for health companies to master this in the current year. It has an overall committee agreed to, because it's obvious to everyone. But what's still missing is a little bit of an indication of what the Council of State will actually do to deal with this. This means, in practice, that the State Council – if the Labour Party in the opposition did so – has an uncovered bill of DKK 3 billion that needs to be covered, before she possibly comes to something that would be a real improvement that could be noticeable to patients in the form that health businesses are getting a bigger arm's length in caring for patients' needs. Three billion dollars is not a negligible amount. I just want to say that we are going to follow with excitement how the sitting government intends to cover it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e503	We in SV are pleased that the Government has been effective in this matter and that pneumococcal vaccines are introduced as part of the paediatric vaccination programme from 1 July 2006. The vaccine has been available in Norway from 2001 and the United States introduced the vaccine in its vaccination programme that year. It protects against severe pneumococcal infections such as meningitis, pneumonia, blood poisoning and ear infection. Two reports from 2004 and 2005 evaluating the vaccine have led the Government to enter into the ordinary paediatric vaccination programme. We're very pleased with that. The government started work on getting a vaccination scheme right after accession. In January of this year, the Government presented a proposal for changes to the State budget for 2006 to allow the vaccine to be introduced as a free offer from 1 July for all children born from 2006. We're happy about that. It will always be that someone falls outside a new order. It's sad for them, and it can also feel terriblely unfair. We can understand that. Nevertheless, I have to say that the way in which the Progress Party presents the case also seems rather unfair and unfair. Had the party thought that this hastened as much as they obviously believe today, they could have fixed this in one of their many budgetary settlements with the Bondevik government in recent years. The vaccine has been known and available since 2001 — for five years — and the Progress Party has therefore had all the world’s opportunities, both through the Stortinget and through the municipalities, to have the vaccine introduced. It was only when we took over the government that things got moving. To present this almost as a betrayal and – as was said here earlier – to adopt this proposal is a gross outrage, it is simply too farfetched! In fact, Norway is becoming one of the first European countries to introduce pneumococcal vaccines into the paediatric vaccination programme. I think that there might be reason to take a small step aside from the discontent line once in a while, and not to present it as if Norway is almost a u-country. Finally, I would like to remind you that the party of progress went in order for the vaccine to be purchased before the negotiations with the manufacturer were over, and that the taxpayers could have had to spend much more if the government had not had enough ice to stand on their stomachs. This did not prevent the government from getting this to now, while the Bondevik administration went into what they called a further assessment. Therefore, the fact that the former government parties propose that consideration should also be given to extending the offer to children born in 2004 and 2005 in the context of the revision is somewhat hollow. But on the other hand, it can be said that it is a consistent attitude. So to the question of hospital economy: SV is pleased that the government keeps the increased pension costs out of balance, so that this billion in expenditure does not come to the top of already demanding and sometimes tough rounds for hospitals. We look forward to a review of the financial situation of hospitals that will come under review. We are committed to correcting the imbalance between health regions and the need for national health plans to set priorities for the next four years. SV is also very concerned that the public health perspective needs to be strengthened, as well as the prevention perspective and the focus on interaction and rehabilitation. A sensible health policy has all these elements in itself, and there are clear gaps in what is currently Norwegian health policy reality. But this is what the Government and the majority of the population will do.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e521	The pneumococci vaccine for children is an important issue. It shows, not least, the exposure shown by many parents in direct enquiries to wholesalers. The Christian People's Party agrees to introduce vaccines for children under two years of age, as suggested by the proposition. The restriction by offering the vaccine only to children born after 1 January 2006 was also a theme in the consultation within the Committee. The Council of State justified the reasons for this restriction in the hearing and subsequently repeated the main arguments in a letter to the Workers' Group. Among other things, the Council of State says that any re-ordering to have children born before 1 January will result in the whole programme being pushed out on time. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the vaccination programme will start as soon as possible. At the same time, we see the need that annual coals born in 2004 and 2005 should also be included in the offer of free vaccines. That is why, as mentioned earlier, together with the Right and the Left, we propose that the Government consider extending the vaccination to these year-olds in the context of the revised 2006 national budget. Even if this group starts later, it is better than not to be included at all or to have to buy the vaccine itself. I hope the Government will respond positively to our proposal. So a few words about the second case in St.prp. No Thirty-nine. In my opinion, it is very unfortunate and critical that an increase of DKK 1 billion in the total pension costs of regional health companies is presented to the Stortinget in this way, almost as an aproposal to another case. This creates a great deal of uncertainty for responsible health policy-makers, at least in the opposition parties, about the overall economic situation of health enterprises per year. the date of issue. Governments have justified the reasons for the exceedance in letters to the undersigned by ‘change in economic parameters, such as future returns on plan assets and future salary growth’. Some incomplete answer, mentioning examples of change in a few economic parameters. In fact, it is difficult to understand that as much exceedance as DKK 1 billion could not be foreseen at all from the health establishments or departments. There is a great need for the Storting to get a comprehensive overview of the financial situation of health businesses as quickly as possible, including the problems associated with the division of basic funding between different health businesses, where Health West and Health Middle Norway are particularly struggling. I have understood it this way, also on contributions from representatives of the government parties earlier today, that the government in the revised national budget will provide the Storting with such an overview. I want to ask the Council of State to confirm this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e536	There is reason to be proud today, because when the Government has proposed that the pneumococcal vaccine be introduced as part of the pediatric vaccination programme from 1 July 2006, and there appears to be a great deal of excitement about this in the Storting, Norway will be among the first European countries to introduce this vaccine in its paediatric vaccination programme. In Norway it is well over 90 pst. by the parents who terminate the vaccination programme for their children. It's important, as I see it, that the pneumococcal vaccine also gets high acceptance, and that parents get the necessary information about the vaccine. Of course, when many kids are vaccinated, it means protection for each child, but we also provide the basis for a high degree of immunity in the population. The Institute of Public Health has already concluded the necessary agreements with the vaccine producer, as I have previously informed the Committee, subject to, of course, that the Stortinge joins the proposal and grants the money to which it must belong. From 1 May this year, the municipalities can order the vaccine from the Swedish Institute of Public Health, so that vaccination in the municipalities can be started on 1 July. The Foundation has been quick to provide information to municipalities, health professionals and parents. In addition, they have completed training for health professionals in all counties. The vaccine will be integrated into the 3-, 5- and 12-month health centre checks. After the media reports, there has, of course, been a great demand for the vaccine, and there has been a previous waiting list at the Public Health Institute. After the last deliveries, the Public Health Institute is now up-to-date with the release of the vaccine to doctors, municipalities and pharmacies. The manufacturer has informed us that there will be a new main delivery in April/May, and then a stable delivery of the vaccine via wholesaler is expected to be made to pharmacies. According to the Institute of Public Health, the vaccine has the best effect for young people up to the age of two. After two years of age, pneumococcal disease is less common and a greater proportion of cases are caused by bacterial types against which the vaccine is not effective. No more adverse reactions of this vaccine have been identified than are common for other paediatric vaccines. As you know, the vaccine was introduced in the United States in 2001, and when last year we received positive reports on the effectiveness of the vaccine in the United States, I immediately started studies to assess the possibility of introducing it in Norway. That's why I repeat that I'm proud to be able to invite Stortinget to make it possible for our smallest to get a safer crop. Pneumococcal diseases are not eliminated, but the basis is to reduce serious and sometimes life-threatening diseases in childhood. So I'm going to go over to inform you about the corrected balance sheet requirement, which several speakers have been involved in. In examining the State budget of the year, the Stortinget considered that regional health businesses should balance this year. Without a balance in the economy, it will be difficult to develop healthcare further and make room for action to increase efforts in the areas we want to prioritise. As you know, health care businesses would pay about DKK 1 billion in the corrected deficit in 2005. The forecasts so far show a corrected deficit of DKr 1.3 to DKr 1.4 billion. In other words, in order to achieve a financial balance in 2006, health businesses need to improve their performance by a total of more than DKK 1 billion. As stated in the currently pending proposal, the pension costs of regional health enterprises are estimated to be approximately DKK 1 billion higher than those foreseen when the State budget was treated by the Storting. I find reason to stress that I informed the Storting as soon as I had the figures clear and was assured of them. This was the way we thought was best suited to do it. The reason for the increased pension costs is, as several have said, changes in the economic parameters, such as: future expected return on plan assets. As indicated in the proposal, pension costs should normally be included in the budgets of regional health establishments. My assessment was that it would not be advisable to include these increased pension costs in the balance sheet requirement for 2006, as the overall migration challenge would almost double. I am pleased to record that the Storting seems to agree with this. The implementation of such requirements would have led to major changes both in the structure of hospitals and in the provision of patients, which would not have been compatible with the policy that this government wants to pursue. In addition, it would represent a significant change in the assumptions underlying the adoption of the financial framework for regional health enterprises for the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e563	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e566	First, I'll be glad to say that we're now making the decision to introduce pneumococcal vaccines into the pediatric vaccination program, so it's fixed once and for all. I think everyone in this room is happy about that. But I must also say that when the representative Thorkildsen claimed that no one has been concerned about this before, it is a positive error. If Thorkildsen had looked into previous documents and got involved in the work of the former Social Committee, she would have seen that the Progress Party had already included this in the 2005 budget. Enough about it! In the letter from the Council of State to the Workers' Party's Grand-Group at Jan Bøhler, the Council of State writes the following: ‘It is estimated that there is a need for 80000 doses in 2006 to meet the need for vaccines for children born from birth onwards. 2006.» The following paragraph will be added: ‘It is stated in the letter from Wyeth that they may in addition deliver 100 000 extra doses in July or August, if they receive an order by mid-April, if delivered by October, if they receive an order by the end of April.’; This shows that it would actually be possible to obtain the extra doses if they had been negotiated and ordered at an earlier time. Will the Council of State reconsider whether it is possible to make the additional order and extend the age group so that children between 6 and 24 months of age can also have the same opportunities as those born after 1 January 2006?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e585	Let me first comment on what the party colleague of the representative Nesvik said in his statement, that what the government now proposed was ‘a gross outrage’, and that it was clear that the financial considerations weighed more than the patient offer. I take a great distance from that. I would like to remind you that it was this government that after just a few weeks of gripping this matter, and that gets this implemented and implemented from 1 July, so that it will be solved for kids born this year, and for all future. Don't say that! I also want to add that although it is true that the Progress Party has taken it up in various settings, I only record that it has at least not led to any negotiations with previous government parties so that it has been prioritised so high that it has been introduced. That's a fact! That is why I am surprised by the harsh criticism that comes from the Progress Party, when they themselves have done nothing about it when they have had the opportunity to do so. Then I'm done with it! So I would say that it is of course possible – if you wish – to also give the vaccine to children up to two years of age, but we get notice from the manufacturer that it is likely to give a shift in time. It is possible, of course, to order extra doses. It costs a little more money. We have thought that when new arrangements are introduced, one must start somewhere. That's why we've said that we start with kids born this year, that it's being solved forever, and then I realize that for some people there may be transitional challenges related to this, but that's always the case when new schemes are introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e596	I listened with particular interest to the last part of the Council of State's posts. She did not comment on whether the council itself had considered other ways of informing the Storting about this billionaire who appeared suddenly just before Christmas, than putting it into a blindfold in a matter of something quite different. It would be interesting to know. The other thing, which would be even more interesting to know, is how to get a 1 billion difference at that time of year. If there are only different estimates of future returns of plan assets, it is with respect to reporting incomprehensible. There have been no dramatic changes in interest rates or other conditions in Norway, as I know, during the past year. There has to be a more understandable explanation here. I should have liked to have it further elaborated on the part of the Council of State. What's even more important is what I asked for in my post instead, which is what the Council of State is thinking about how to deal with the deficit of a total of NOK 3 billion that is now being drawn into the hospital economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e605	There were many questions that it is demanding to answer in such a short time. To start with, as far as this was put into the case of the vaccine, it was because it was the first opportunity I had to be able to direct the Storting through a case. That's why it was chosen. When we did it that way, and not in a case of our own, it was also because we didn't propose to change the assumptions that the Stortinge agreed to before Christmas, that it was therefore kept out of the balance sheet requirement. That's why I didn't think there was a need for a case of my own. If we had done something else, either that it would be more efficient for a billion or put on a billion, it would have been obvious to come up with a separate case. That's the explanation. When it comes to how the billion arises, there's more than one explanation for it. I also asked questions about how it was possible suddenly to get a billion in captivity. I think the previous minister would answer the exact same thing that I am now doing. So in terms of the future, we're going to come back to revision, and in the budget for next year, saying something about what we think about health challenges. Of course, this applies both to pensions, to deficits – one is now meeting the balance sheet requirement for the current year – and to patient treatment and a number of other things for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e616	I find reason to say that I think it is positive that the government council has worked out the pneumococcal vaccine so quickly. I have one specific question, and it is about the Government in the context of the revised national budget that will consider the proposal we have together with the Right and the Left that annual coal born in 2004 and 2005 may also be included in the offer of free pneumococcal vaccine.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e621	No, we didn't think so, because we believe that the proposal we have made is good, to say it that way. I repeat that I see that there are some challenges to the transition, i.e. in terms of those between 1 and 2 years. However, I can also take the opportunity to inform Storting that some children over 1 year of age who are at risk – I am talking about them. if children who have anatomical or functional anthrax or HIV infection have this covered on blue prescription. So even though the general rule is that this is covered for children born this year and forward, we have a blue prescription for some of the most vulnerable children above that age limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e626	I want to make some comments about the pneumococcal vaccine. Things have been very fast, and I think it's commendable. But a high tempo in a case often means that not all sides are thought through. At least that's what's common. And as Inge Wohnning said in his post, we realized in the committee work that it is practically possible to extend the vaccination programme here, and that the estimate when it relates to the extra costs is too high. That is what is behind the proposal from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, a proposal that we have heard today will receive subsidiary support from the Progress Party. That means that there are actually multiples for this in the committee. And when I hear the articles from the Workers' Party and the rest of the government fraction, I actually feel like we're agreeing on this proposal. A reasonable conclusion will be that a mass accumulation should be able to respond to the proposal. Isn't that a good conclusion, Councilman?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e633	I think I'm going to be very careful to think something about what the Storting is going to conclude. I deal with what the Storting will decide, also in this case, when the day is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e638	The criticism of the Progress Party in this matter has not concerned itself with what is now on the table, but about the group that is left out in this matter. It should now be clear. The reason for not being able to do anything in the past is that we have just been waiting for Report 2005:1 from the Institute of Public Health, which makes recommendations for the use of conjugated pneumococcal vaccines in Norway. It's now ahead of us. It's used as an argument that one place we have to start. But what's the whole cloud in this case is that we have a limited age group, from 0 to 24 months, where you have the opportunity to give this offer to everyone, but you don't do it. That is why I ask the Council of State once again to consider whether not everyone in this age group should receive this offer. There is a limited group of children, you want to have a full overview of the number of doses you need, and so I have to say that there is no problem in getting there if the will is there.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e647	Everything is possible, of course, it is if you are willing to take the risk that it will shift something throughout the vaccination scheme. Of course, it's also possible if you add more money. But we've chosen to start somewhere, like all the new arrangements, saying that we're starting for kids born this year, as we know, and all the years ahead. It's a choice. I'm dealing with what the Storting will adopt later today. With regard to the Progress Party and the representative of Nesvik, the reason that the Progress Party has not done anything more active with this before, except to mention it in various settings, I recall that the vaccine has been on the Norwegian market since 2001. It has been fully possible for anyone who has wanted it, whether belonging to the Party of Advancement, other parties or former government, to adopt this. But I find that no one has done it before it became a new government, and we have had it done within a few months.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e655	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e660	Part 2 of this case, which deals with pneumococcal vaccines, addresses the issues related to the increased pension costs of regional health enterprises. Everyone has indicated that they agree that this issue had to be addressed, because leaving it in the balance sheet would have created so many challenges for individual businesses that health would have been solved in a number of different places. The problem is that we're already getting a number of messages into the Stortinge related to savings that go beyond patient treatment. Yes, we've got signals from several places: Haukeland University Hospitals have said that it's possible they have to close a department, and we see that St. Olav's Hospital and others now have to take measures that go beyond patient treatment. This is not fair, and I take the Council of State seriously when she has said in the past that it will come back to this in the revised national budget, linked to increased appropriations. I look forward to this matter, because I expect you to be serious when you say that these savings should not go beyond patient treatment. The problem is that the revised national budget will not be dealt with until the summer. These enterprises are now working on their budgets, and they have not yet received a signal relating to the level of savings that we have announced. The worst thing in the matter is that you don't say anything about how you intend to solve the problem. We have a billion that is now just swirling in the air. The Council of State and the Government have not said anything about how they intend to solve this issue. They're just saying that you can't include it in the balance sheet requirement, and they have full support for it. But you should come back soon and also say something about how you've been going to solve these problems, because businesses know that the amounts are there. The question is what time this money is to be collected, and it must now be concluded that regional health companies are being sucked by not getting any clear signals on how to deal with this. I'm looking forward to the State Council now, hopefully, giving an answer in this room about how you're going to cover this up. Are there any additional appropriations? Is it about pushing on this and letting it go over the years, so that businesses have to tighten up even more years a year? Or how are you going to solve this? I hope that the Council of State can give a good answer, so that we know at least what we have to deal with. It has been defective for the time being.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e667	I would like to refute the fact that healthcare companies have not received any signals. First of all, they have been given the clear signal that this government proposed 500 million. kr more for the current year, which meant that it can be treated well 20,000 more patients than the previous government had proposed. The second signal that health businesses have received is that, as a State Council will do, I follow up the Stortinget to the extent that I remember unanimous decisions to balance the regions in 2006. It's a very clear signal. The third signal is what we're talking about here today, that the pension costs are to be kept out of the balance sheet requirement, which I believe is a very broad consensus. Then I would also like to say that I have been so lucky that I have been involved in politics for a long time, and I have worked on this before, and every year at this time there are quite a number of proposals in the media that are never going to become reality, because there are processes going on in the individual regions and individual hospitals. That's why I don't think one should judge by every thing that comes in the media, that it's going to be the outcome, because it's not going to be. I also recall that since the introduction of the hospital reform in 2002, the real growth in this sector has averaged about 2 and 1/2 pst. per 1 % years, i.e. health establishments have been able to spend more than DKK 1 billion each year after the reform than the previous year. So there are some challenges that are different in the different regions, and I'm going to go through it quickly. In the case of Health East, I would say that they continue the good trend. As far as Health South is concerned, I would say that there is a good development here, but there are still major migration challenges. In the case of Health West, I think it's a good development, but there are special challenges associated with Health Bergen. In the case of Health Middle Norway, there is a negative performance trend in 2005, and there are challenges particularly related to St. Olav’s Hospital, where there does not appear to have been adequately focused on cost control. In the case of Health Nord, there is a negative performance trend in 2005, demanding geography and interaction within the individual health business. Where it doesn't work well enough, I take this very seriously. And I'm going to make sure that what the Storting has decided is implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e682	First of all, a small comment on the course of the debate regarding the pneumococcal vaccine and the extra appropriations. I said instead that you quickly learn new roles, but I was most impressed by the SV's voice, because there has been a really steep learning curve, when the main approach angle from SV's side has become concern on behalf of the taxpayers. Then I have to say that placing the party leader in the Ministry of Finance has led to a quite significant learning development. To the Council of State last post: I listened with great interest to her evaluation of the state of health businesses and probably think that it was quite precise as far as I have been able to follow in the situation. But it might be interesting to challenge the Council of State to maybe go one step further, because there's a lot of evidence that when we drag so big cost problems into parts of health businesses, it's related to having a system and a structure that makes administration costs unreasonable compared to what goes for the primary purpose, namely patient treatment. It has been suggested in a report that only Health Sørs could be considered a potential savings in this area of between 150 and 250 million. kr. And if you raise another problem, it's probably an even greater savings potential. That's why I'd like to challenge the Council of State on that. Her predecessors tried to do something about the rather meaningless borderline division that runs across Oslo City, between Health South and Health East, and that makes you have a doubling of many offers in two highly specialized hospitals that lie a few miles apart in the airline. Has the State Council scolded it and calmed down that we have a breakdown and a system that is appropriate, or will she seriously go in and investigate whether there is really a possibility here of severe resource savings for the benefit of healthcare users?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e691	We are not going to take evaluations of the hospital reform here. But at least what I want to establish, as I see the picture, is that we've got more expertise, more cooperation, more savings of money by now cooperating across state boundaries to a much greater extent, and we've got an offer that is in many areas better for patients than it was before, and the waiting time goes down. It's proven, and I think that's something to consider. That's good, but that doesn't mean everything's solved. Then I agree with the representative's salary in what I feel is below – it's possible I'm wrong, and then the representative gets me right – that money is of course important in this sector, and that it needs more money, but money is not everything. I probably don't agree with the representative here saying that the administrative costs are generally unreasonable, but that there's a lot to go about when it comes to organizing us in an even better way than what is happening today. I am sure that almost daily, or at least weekly, there will be examples showing quite clearly that even if you deposit NOK 2–3–4–5 billion, you are not sure to solve all the challenges that lie there. So it's clear: money yes, but it also has to, according to my terms, completely different grips as well as that. With regard to the Capital Region, in recent days we have seen many examples of challenges related to it. I can assure you that I have not calmed down, nor in this area. As for the relationship between Health East and Health South, it's clear that we need to keep an eye on how we organize our offer so that it's for the benefit of the users. That's why we're here. That means that there's no conclusion here in any way. It's way too early. But I can confirm that I am following this very closely. I'm going to investigate it. If I think it's right to do even more here, of course I'll come to Stortinget with it in a suitable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e700	The state councils have now also reported the situation of individual regional health establishments. It was an interesting review, because among the health companies she highlighted had problems and challenges, two are underfunded enterprises, Health West and Health Middle Norway. It has been announced that you will come back to correct some of that bias. It could have been interesting to hear when you can expect to get that case back. It also says in the Soria Moria statement that you have to do something about the bias distribution, as far as I understand, and that you want to do it faster than what it was put up for. I hope and expect the Council of State to mention this in the context of the revised national budget. It's going to be interesting to see. Otherwise, I will also be allowed to comment on an article by Jan Bøhler earlier in the debate about all the amazing government has been given, among others. as regards financing in the hospital sector. He mentioned the NOK 2.9 billion that had been transferred to St. Olav's Hospital, but there is no new money. It's just that you pay over a year what you originally had to pay over several years. So there's no hocus pocus solution this government has come up with. What's hocuspocus is the way to do it. It was taken in the budget review from last year, and then one small month was not expected to finance it through the State budget. So what was new was the creative way to finance it, where you claim the rule of action and its use in every possible context. When this was the case now, you jumped out of that debate, and then you took it in the balance of the last year's budget. That's what's so-called creative, not that you've brought more money to the health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e709	I can confirm that the disaggregation between health regions is to be corrected and faster than foreseen. I cannot – and the representative Nesvik knows – say here and now when it comes, but it will. I would also like to take the opportunity to add that even when it is corrected, there will be more significant challenges than the money we are talking about here, especially related to Health Mid-Norway. So everything is also not solved by taking that grip. When it comes to getting accusations of quick processing and creativity, I accept criticism for the most part, I. But it's kind of strange to get it from the Progress Party, I have to say. It's anyway a fact that we got out $2.9 billion at St. Olav's Hospital before Christmas. We've also made promises to that region of 140 million. kr increase in permanent amounts, corresponding to approx. Three billion dollars, and we gave 500 million dollars. kr more to hospitals than the previous government. So getting criticism for that we might have to bring along too, but I guess it's a little unreasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e718	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1891]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e734	I'm gonna be okay. I would just like to stress the important issue highlighted by the proposers in their proposal, that there is a great need for ethical reflection in the care sector in the meeting between employees, users and relatives. An overall committee considers that the positive response of the Committee received from the Council of State, where she says that she will return to these questions in the notified notification of care, takes care of the intentions of the proposers, and therefore proposes that the document be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e745	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1892]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e765	Today’s interpellation has arisen as a direct consequence of a number of surveys in Finnmark media on reduced capacity for the air ambulance service in Finnmark in transport from primary municipalities to hospitals. These observations have also described events involving individual patients in which, according to primary health care assessments, the transport requirements have not been met in a professionally sound manner, so that the patient’s life and health have been compromised. There was a meeting in Alta on February 27, where this was an important part of a topic that was raised. There were hundreds of people present at that meeting, and it was a clear demand from the people that primary preparedness be strengthened. But this is not a problem that concerns only the municipality of Alta. This concerns a number of municipalities in Northern Norway. Before I go to the actual text of the interpellation and the issues I'm travelling there, I want to describe some of the situation that the primary doctors are facing. I have experienced myself having a doctor's watch when a traffic accident occurred. The consequence of that was that I came to a site where three children were so seriously injured that I realized that one child was going to die relatively quickly, and I was unsure whether I would be able to save the other. What I did, of course, was call the AMK Central, which in this case was located in Tromsø, to get air ambulance personnel in place and to get help out. In this case, I would say that preparedness worked very satisfactorily. We got a medical helicopter from Tromsø, a helicopter from Banak and an air ambulance that was ready when the children were transported down. If you think of such a situation, and you think of the experience it must be for relatives and health professionals at the moment it's not going well, at the moment you take that phone and get the answer that that plane is unfortunately not available – yes, where is that plane? No, it is further south of Norway due to the fact that a patient flies between two hospitals — it is understood that there is a kind of desperation in the health care staff, in that doctor and in the caregivers. They see that they have to do with a patient for whom life hangs in a thin thread, and they know that they are totally dependent on the resources that the hospital can provide to save that life. I think you have to have that image in your head when I'm going to go over the rest of the interpellation, because what we're talking about here doesn't apply to technicalities. There is a readiness in those areas where no hospital is available to save lives on partially severely damaged patients, possibly patients who, for other reasons, need immediate help. I'm going to go over some data related to the Air ambulance service in North Norway, including trends over the last ten years, based on trends that have been observed. These figures are reasonably good quality assurance through the air ambulance service, so I am reasonably confident that they will vote. The data show that the total number of air ambulance service missions has almost doubled over the last ten years. The whole increase in air ambulance missions is due to increased use of air ambulance aircraft between the different hospital units, known as secondary and repatriation missions, while in part there has been a decrease in air ambulance transport from the patient’s home municipalities and to hospitals, known as primary missions, during the same period. The statistics show that return operations, i.e. transport from highly specialised hospital units, such as university hospitals, to local hospitals, now account for approx. 40 pst. of all the missions. There may be many reasons why there has been a change that is partly significant, in the last ten years. The functional and task distribution between hospitals leads to increased transport needs, which are also reflected in the car ambulance service. Local hospital efficiencies reduce the possibility of local treatment. New, advanced treatment methods involve centralisation of some hospital services. An example of this could be the blockage of heart attacks and heart cramps, known as PCI, in which patients are transported directly to a university hospital for surgery, on which they are then returned to a local hospital with an air ambulance. Since 2001, the transport of patients on board scheduled flights is prohibited, increasing the pressure on the air ambulance service. Increased use of free hospital choice also increases the need for return on ambulance aircraft, for example: from Oslo to Finnmark when you have hip surgery. An illustration of the fact that the air ambulance service capacity is reaching its outer limit is that the implementation rate of primary missions has fallen in the last five years. That is, you order a plane, but you can't get it. You have to choose alternative solutions. Especially regular ambulances are used as a means of transport instead. Categorised according to urgency, there has been a fall in implementation rates at all speeds, including in emergency peaks during the period. There has been a particularly poor level of implementation in January and February 2006. The risk of simultaneous conflicts does not follow a linear but an exponential curve as the number of tasks increases and approaches the external capacity limit. A further increase in consumption will thus result in a significantly increased risk of aircraft not being available in the event of sudden need. Summing up, what I've said here is that the emergency response for the municipalities that use ambulance aircraft as a primary resource has become worse in recent years, and that particularly affects Finnmark. There are quite considerable differences between the different parts of the country, and what characterises Finnmark is that most primary tasks are carried out. Most of them are urgent and urgent tasks, i.e. tasks you shouldn't wait long to do. Quite a number of commissioned assignments are secondary missions, i.e. transportation from a hospital in Finnmark to the University Hospital in North Norway, to Tromsø. It is a task that can also be urgent, because there may be serious damage to patients in the neighbourhood of the local hospitals that you have to recognise must go on to a higher level. In Troms, there are relatively few emergencies and emergencies. The vast majority of assignments are ordered return orders from the university hospital to local hospitals. Nordic countries have a different situation, with many emergency and urgent tasks of the kind of secondary tasks, i.e. transporting them from local hospitals and towards larger units, such as the University Hospital in North Norway. Orders are also placed between reverse and secondary tasks. I'm not going to go into the situation in the rest of the country in detail, but it's partly very different from the one you see in North Norway, both because there's a shorter distance between the different treatment units, and because sometimes you use a different type of equipment, not least ambulance helicopters are used a lot. It's less used in Finnmark. The contract with the ambulance aircraft operators was concluded at a time when the load was about half of what it is today. You are close to the ceiling for what today's aircraft and personnel resources can produce. It also leads to continuous dissertation of aeroplanes due to planned overhauls, and not least due to sudden technical problems. There are severe restrictions on the working time in aviation and the high level of activity also means that personnel have to leave the aircraft during periods of standby, simply in order to rest. There is far more report from standby in the Ambulance Flight Service than in the Ambulance Helicopter Service. The question, of course, will be: what can be done? Based on the data I have received, there seems to be very little spare capacity that can be further exploited, and that means that priority at one level reduces capacity at another. Of course, there may be a reduction in the number of repatriation assignments from university hospitals, but some of the consequence may be that patients remain on – what can be called – excessive levels of treatment and capacity. It will generate other types of costs. Of course, some can be transported by car ambulance, but this is an assessment that is already being carried out today. When using air ambulances, it's precisely because the combination of long travel distances and the patient's condition makes car ambulances not very suitable. You can increase the ambulance flight capacity by deploying more aeroplanes. It is clear that it will trigger costs, and it will also increase the need for personnel. However, in the short term it seems that it is difficult to get away from it. There has been a – it must be right to say – conflict-affected situation between Finnmark and the AMK centre in Tromsø, because it takes a long time between calling and starting the job itself. An action that may then be appropriate is to use the two AMK centres in Finnmark and call them to get the mission carried out. There appears to be a significant need to provide services in Finnmark, so that the primary tasks are really prioritised, not the return tasks of university hospitals. I have also been given a description of the possibility of getting a type of transport service in the long term for the costs you currently have for the use of scheduled flights for sitting patients. The cost of that type of transport shall be estimated to be 200 million. kr on a national basis. There are even more possibilities to look at. But what's important to emphasize, and which I want to come back to, is that you have to take seriously the very strong signals that are now coming from a number of municipalities, from health professionals and from relatives because of the insecurity that has arisen, so that you can quickly solve this situation and ensure that primary missions are dealt with immediately when you need to get the patient out of the farm quickly to a proper level of treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e816	Through the question from the inter-pellant and several other channels, including several concerned rapporteurs in Finnmark, I have become aware that during the first months of the year, in particular, there has been a particularly difficult and worrying situation related to the Finnish Ambulance Aviation Service – as the inter-pellant explained. I just want to make sure I take it very seriously. I am also informed that deviations have been reported to the Health Authority precisely because of the lack of availability of ambulance aircraft in connection with emergency flights, and this will of course be checked properly. I understand very well that the emergency response, not least the prehospital services, is an important security factor for the population. It must be raised beyond any doubt that the emergency medical response should be maintained and that the people of Northern Norway, as well as in the country, should be safeguarded. It's on the ground. It's a chain of things to work, and it's very important that there's good interaction, that there's the right use of resources. We know that, as the interpellant explained, is crucial in acute illness or accident where the time factor is the critical one. The task of the Ambulance Aviation Service is, as defined in the regulation on requirements for emergency medical services outside hospital, primarily to bring patients to an adequate level of medical care during monitoring and treatment. Furthermore, it is defined that the air ambulance service may exceptionally be used for the repatriation of patients for whom air transport is necessary on the basis of a medical assessment. Based on the information provided to me by Health Nord, they believe, having reviewed the Nord-Norway activity statistics for the last seven years, that there is no evidence to support the claim that access to ambulance aircraft in the event of an emergency strike is generally severely reduced. I was informed that the number of emergency peaks carried out has been stable, and that up to 90 pst. the execution of the requested tasks. But what the statistics show very clearly is that the proportion of secondary assignments, i.e. patients transferred to higher levels of treatment, i.e. from local hospitals to central or university level, are increasing. Ambulance aeroplanes shall provide for the transport of patients to the appropriate level of health care in accordance with the applicable regulations. The increase in assignments due to the transfer of seriously ill patients from a local hospital to a higher level of treatment is both in line with and – I believe – a necessary consequence of the medical-technical development and, consequently, the organisation of specialist healthcare. The general evolution of the later years that I've described doesn't change the fact that the statistics for the first few months of this year are very worrying, as the interpellant points out. Compared to the same period last year, the implementation rate of the missions, i.e. the extent to which the requested tasks are actually carried out, is reduced for all speeds except emergency peaks. Clearly, the developments we have seen so far in Finnmark and North Norway cannot continue. That is why I have raised the issue with Health Nord, who is known to be responsible for the proper development and dimensioning of the ambulance service in the region according to the needs of the population. Health Nord has made it clear in its feedback to the Ministry that the capacity of the ambulance flight service per year. is now fully exploited and makes the service vulnerable. Health Nord has communicated to me that they too take a serious view of the situation, and have taken action to improve the availability of ambulance air traffic services and ensure emergency medical preparedness for the Finnmark population. Increased resources have been allocated to the Ambulance Aviation Service. It turns out that so far no particular effect of the increased resources has been seen, but that regularity is expected to improve. The air traffic coordination centre and the AMK centre in Tromsø, which coordinates the ambulance flight service, have also been asked to look at the possibilities to further optimise resource use. The aim is to ensure that the use of air navigation services does not occur at the expense of availability if needed for immediate assistance – that must be clearly stated. New recruitment procedures have also been developed, which are being implemented just over Easter. So far it is the doctor who has recruited ambulances directly from the AMK Central Station in Tromsø, as the representative Ballo explained, while other ambulance resources are requested through the local AMK Central Stations in Finnmark, either Kirkenes or Hammerfest. The new procedures mean that the recovery of ambulance services, regardless of the type of resource, is made to the local AMK centre, which connects the AMK centre in Tromsø if ambulance aircraft are needed. According to Health Nord, new routines will allow you to clear up the urgency, resource use and task allocation immediately, so that each task will hopefully be managed more effectively. Health Nord has also asked Health Finnmark to review emergency preparedness, all use of ambulance services and the resource management of AMK centres. Health Finnmark is also working on setting up an on-site watch all day for the car ambulance service in Alta. There will also be a so-called fleet management tool, i.e. digital overview and management of ambulance resources throughout the health region during 2006. The coordination and use of appropriate resources at the right time is, of course, crucial in this context. So the interpellant knows better than me that the ambulance service has evolved from being part of a transport service to becoming a health service and an important part of emergency medical preparedness. I believe that we can also quickly agree that ambulance cars cannot replace the ambulance flight service, and especially not in the area of the country we are talking about here, where there is a long way to go to the hospital. Therefore, sites such as Alta need additional emergency preparedness in the form of adequate access to air ambulance services. This is an important premise, as I see it, when considering whether to ensure that responsibility is respected. Health Nord has assured them that they should pay more attention to this ratio. A standby reporting system shall also be established to provide evidence of the care of the health of the North at all times. Health Nord shall also review the preparedness and availability, activities and costs of the air ambulance service. In this context, measures to adapt supply to needs should also be considered to a greater extent than is currently the case. I would like to add that the Government is now following up the Storting's decision to set up an on-site security guard for the rescue helicopter service as an important complement to the air ambulance service. I am informed that Health Nord has invited the most important actors in this case right over Easter to a meeting where you should go through where you stand, and even more important: where you go further. I can assure the Storting that I am following this matter very closely, also personally, with regard to both the ambulance flight service and the other prehospital services for the people of North Norway. People must be confident that they have a good service offer and adequate preparedness to ensure fast transport to the right level of treatment when needs arise.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e848	I thank the Council of State for the answer. One of the problems related to the issue of the air ambulance service has been the discussion between the largest, heavy professional communities — not least in Tromsø — and the primary health service in general. One has given a description of the reality that appears to be different, depending on whether one is located, for example. in Tromsø or if you are in the primary municipalities. It's a problem you have to take seriously. If it is the case in a municipality that the doctors, the health professionals, the relatives and the patient in need of help are not perceived to be taken seriously, whose information is kind of swept through several joints and the feedback may be that they are incriminating or describing a severity that the next link cannot agree with, it inevitably arises in the wake of a crisis of confidence. I have seen the correspondence that has been with the rapporteurs in Finnmark and health professionals in Finnmark, and I have registered decisions in the Finnmark Medical Association and decisions in the Nordic Medical Associations, where one calls for a warning that this may be the case. I also record that health north in some formulations has raised doubts about the development of primary tasks, that there is a reduction here. I'm not going to overinterpret the state council, but you might sense that there might be reason to doubt some of the numbers. I've gone quite thoroughly through this number material. To the extent that Health Nord draws into doubt that there has been a decline in primary tasks, I think they need to go deeper into the material. I've even looked at the numbers from the Alta base. There were 945 primary missions in 1998. So it's gone down gradually, and the last number I got from 2005 was 694. This is a rather significant decrease, at about 250 flights. So you say, what's the reason for that? And then you describe it so that one of the reasons is that the planes become available to a lesser extent than before. On the one hand, there are tasks that cannot be carried out, and on the other hand, other solutions are forced. And it's clear that this isn't just about January and February in 2006, when you have numbers going back to 1998. I have the impression in every way that the Council of State takes this seriously. But I think that Health Nord has ended up in a situation where they appear to need to defend themselves, instead of being in an attack position. I think it's a good idea for them to do it, because I think you have to play on the same team to take the primary municipalities seriously. It is not possible to negate 19 rapporteurs and an overall health professional in Finnmark in this matter. It won't get any good out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e859	I can only repeat that I take the matter very seriously. I also hear what the representative Ballo here says, and the fact that the Health Authority has now dealt with several of the cases because there is a claim of anomalies indicates that there is a challenging and, in part, serious situation. Then I hear what the interpellant says about the challenge of primary health services in relation to the AMK centre in Tromsø, etc. I'll take that with me. I think it's bad if it goes on trust, so I'll look into it. There should be no doubt, either from my side, that the signals sent, of course, will be taken seriously. To the extent that there is uncertainty about it and a feeling that it is sibling, it should be checked up, and it should be sorted out.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e866	Initially, I would like to say that all my experience in this matter – and it has been over several years – shows that today Health North is in a defensive position. Luckily, they haven't gone to the trench. I think the issue that we have to debate now is very special. It's special, among other things. Otherwise, you will see that you can do what you can to improve health services for the population, but here we are discussing a matter that concerns the fact that in recent years, the supply of air ambulances to the emergency patients — and I stress: the emergency patients — has become worse than when the offer was established. The statistics show – and it is correct – that transport operations have increased, but the acute peaks have fallen, and the transfer tasks have increased. When you have the same number of planes as 5-6 years ago, and you have to fly more treated patients, there will be clearly less time, less personnel and fewer opportunities to help those who need emergency care. You should basically think that as the missions increase and the planes fly more, that would be a good news. Increased progress would mean more acute patients getting help, but that's not the way it is. The reason, as we have heard here today, is that the ambulance planes are flying completed patients between hospitals and between hospitals and health centres. The result is that, when the need for immediate flight to the hospital is present, the ambulance aircraft may be on a transfer mission. This is not in line with the intention when we established the air ambulance service in this country. This is not in line with the tasks assigned to the air ambulance service. As a result, more complaints have recently been made about the performance of the mission and about its availability than in the past, and serious situations have arisen, especially for food patients and heart patients. I must admit that, as rapporteur, I have been working for this service for many years, and there have been especially food patients who have been close to my heart. It's the young women that I've wanted us to be able to provide the security that a good air ambulance would help to provide. In my own region, it is from Alta – Finnmark’s largest city, with 18,500 inhabitants – 145 km to the nearest hospital. From Kautokeino it is 290 km to the nearest hospital. When distances are as they are in a state larger than Denmark, the air ambulance is the security of the population when they are in a difficult situation and really need help. We have 12 flight strips in Finnmark. We have the world's best chance of having air ambulances that are going to be there every day, every hour, when we need it. I think it is very serious that we experience that Health Nord, which is supposed to manage these funds and which governs our whole health day, almost undermines the emergency response – the primary tasks – that should be there for the population. We experience that Health Nord creates uncertainty about the air ambulance offer. It is especially young women who have engaged in this matter. They've seen that this most concerns them, first as a feeding patient, and then their child. I have worked on this matter for a long time in different contexts, and I want to thank the Council of State for the commitment she has shown in this matter, and also the other political leadership in the department. I think that from the moment we took the matter up and put forward the alarm message, we were taken seriously. I hear Health Nord assures the Council of State that it will now be better, that the local AMK headquarters will have greater influence on the ambulance flights, but I can promise that we will follow Health North's handling of this matter very carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e892	First of all, I want to show the representative, Ballo, that he has raised this matter, because it is of great importance to the people of Finnmark. It is also that I think it is a bit nice that a representative of a government party takes this matter up in Stortinget when you know that the whole toolbox and the solutions to the problems are actually with the sitting government – where the Olav Gunnar Ballos party is represented. In Finland, decisions have been taken on what is needed to perform an operational ambulance service that takes care of the different considerations there. Is it so that today we have a system that works, or is it so that there are other considerations that make parts of the system actually undermine other parts? In fact, if this is the case, the Council of State must come together with the regional health company and draw up a plan to provide the people of Finnmark with operational preparedness to ensure their safety and security. Clear guidelines that satisfy primary health services, local authorities, hospitals and the level of 2nd and 3rd line services must be put in place to improve their performance. As I said, it's the government that's sitting with the toolbox. I assume the government also has enough money.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e903	I'm going to be pretty short. Actually, this is perhaps more of a justified question than an interpellation, in the sense that it is very useful for the question to be raised, and that the Council of State has given its answer – but it is not a type of discussion that is easy to lead from this speaker in terms of the practical and technical solutions that are being challenged. As far as I can see, the problem can actually be boiled down to a question of whether the deficiencies pointed out can be traced back to deficiencies of system nature and type of organisation, that there is no system capable of giving sufficient priority to the type of task that has an acute character — where the time factor is really decisive for the patient’s forecast — in relation to the tasks that are not of an emergency nature, but which are more of a general transport service, which in turn can be postponed both in hours and in days without having a serious adverse effect on the patient. Or is the problem simply a lack of capacity on aircraft personnel, possibly on aircraft equipment? My impression after the Council of State's answer – but here I'm not quite sure, and therefore I hope that it might be clearer in the final line of the Council of State – is that that's the first thing she thinks is the case. In this case, the question of the measures that Health Nord has described to be taken is sufficient and decisive to resolve the problem. But I would like to hear the Council of State's assessment of the second option. Could it be that the real problem is the lack of access to aircraft equipment and aircraft personnel?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e912	This is an important matter. I want to take an angle out of the regulation. According to Section 16 of the regulation on requirements for emergency medical services outside the hospital, the Ambulance Aviation Service must primarily bring patients to an adequate treatment offer in the healthcare system during ongoing monitoring and treatment. This regulation came into force on 1 April 2005 and has been in operation for a year. The regulation sets out concrete requirements for better coordination, increased competence and action to increase the accessibility of calls. The purpose of the regulation is to improve the quality of the ambulance service and make it more equivalent for the whole population. This regulation builds, inter alia: to a note from a Joint Social Committee on the treatment of emergency messages in Stortinget, which is also in the hands of the Christian People's Party today. I just want to quote the following: ‘The Committee would stress that the medical emergency response must offer as much equivalent as possible to the entire population. The organisation of the service must take into account the spread of residence in parts of the country and the long distance from specialised health services in many places.’ For the Christian People's Party, it is important that the emergency transport service between municipalities and hospitals should be available wherever you live in the country, and no matter how it happens – by ambulance, plane, helicopter or boat. This is an important prerequisite for people to feel safe where they live, and not least a prerequisite for them to continue living there. In areas with long distances to hospitals, the transport method can be crucial for life or death, as we have seen in some cases. Repeated cases, which are also pointed out by the interpellant in their submission, undermine the security of people in relation to living widely and having confidence in receiving equivalent health services, regardless of where they live in the country. Regional health enterprises and municipalities are responsible for providing the population with the necessary healthcare services. All the way to the end. In one of the things we've heard about, it's wondering if there's business economic considerations behind the problems. I hope not, I hope that they have arisen for other reasons. But in any case, the reasons on the table need to be cleaned up. Patient transfer must not hit the emergency response. The Christian People's Party believes that the Council of State really has to take a deep breath in the matter, and it's very positive signals from the Council of State that she has grasped it. I believe that, if necessary, the Council of State should consider tightening up the regulation, at least look at the wording there, and consider whether or not something should be done here as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e934	Ambulance aeroplanes are part of the emergency response chain. Not everyone is close to health institutions in this country. Therefore, it is unlikely that this chain is good. Being sure that one gets to the nearest hospital quickly when something is wrong is absolutely fundamental. As we've heard from the interpellant Ballo, it's been a delay in response time in several hours at serious emergency summits in Finnmark, and it's unsustainable. Here, the Council of State, as it has already signaled, has to take responsibility and figure out what's wrong. One must correct this and be provided with emergency preparedness at the level it should be. I also heard interpellant Ballo say that primary preparedness in this particular case has been prioritised for the benefit of what he calls the repatriation of patients. Then we're in the structure and the system, and here I think a need to re-prioritize and, of course, check if there's enough resources so that one can give the people of North Norway the security they need. For the Left, it is absolutely crucial that we have a good and equivalent health supply for everyone – without regard to where they live and when they need it. Although in the country there are differences in distance and population density, there should be no difference in acute supply. So the Left's call to the Council of State in this case is that she takes the necessary steps this situation requires, in order to maintain a good enough emergency preparedness in Finnmark and throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e946	I thank you for the different recordings, and I want to comment on some of them. To take Fredriksen first: there has been no government in this country at all that I have had greater expectations of than exactly the one we have now. But it also makes me, who belongs to a party that is part of that government, want to make demands on it. I have to say that it does not promise well if Fredriksen sees to it that day his party would come into government, that kind of debate will enter the closed rooms, and then you have to clarify it two-handedly. I don't think that's a good idea. Is that what we're going to invite you to, is that the opposition is also taking part in the kind of issues we're facing. Then I want to get into what Inge Wohnning said – this has also given Inge Wohnning ample opportunity to be ironic or sarcastic, but perhaps to a lesser extent than he has a tendency to be – one could of course imagine that this had been a traditional question in the questionnaire. But there's a pretty significant signal from pay in it: this is pretty small and insignificant, and therefore you might not have needed this kind of interpellation. I fundamentally disagree with your salary. It may also say something about his place of residence in the country. In North Norway, in fact, there are a number of places where an air ambulance service is completely offered, which is well-managed by intensive nurses or anaesthetic nurses and other available personnel – precisely in the absence of the type of hospital you have here and which you can reach if you go one kilometer or so here. And at the moment that the kind of services are no longer in place, there is uncertainty. Uncertainty arises. If you don't get that kind of services, for some people it's an argument that you don't live in those parts of the country. There the representative from the left was absolutely right. If you don't ensure that security, do something about people's experience of living in a relatively scattered area. This means that we will take it seriously, and I will strongly stress that I feel that the Council of State is taking it seriously. But you measure in relation to what happens then. Most of the rapporteurs in Finnmark are from the Labour Party. You're concerned about seeing results, you're concerned about something happening in Health Nord, that there's going to be concrete results in terms of a decrease in response time. It's unsustainable, as it was described in a case from Finnmark, that a patient with bumpers who was breaking out ended up in a hospital after three hours – and through surgery they just managed to save their lives on him. If things had gone wrong, the reactions had been much stronger. That's the kind of situation we have to prevent in the future. Everyone has a common responsibility to prevent such a occurrence. This readiness must be strengthened primarily beyond what is happening today, and we must see that it is strengthened, so that we can get rid of this matter. And I'm pretty sure we'll be able to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e957	I find reason to just repeat that I am very concerned that the population of Northern Norway – and in particular of Finnmark, which has been very focused on this round – should also have access to health services when you need it, and that you should be safe on it. Of course, it's something else to rust up a health care system in Finnmark, with so long distances, than for example. in this city. That is why the debate on ambulance aircraft is as important as it actually is. I think there are a lot of reasons why the situation is the way it is. I can only brief you a little bit in the extension of what your salary asked me, why? I think that's a lot of reasons, but what I've been informed, which I think is also a contributing reason, is that there's been a work conflict at the turn of the year. There have been a lot of technical problems with the planes, there have been aviation resources that haven't been operational because of a lot of disease in the first few months, and as I've been familiar with, it's been very bad weather. This isn't the whole explanation, but there's a small part of it. However, it does not in any way excuse the fact that it is not safe to ensure that the offer given is sufficient. It is true, as many have said, that the regulation laid down before this government came into force clearly states that one should provide for the transport of patients to the right level of health care. These assignments have increased in number because serious sick people are increasingly being transferred from local hospitals to special hospitals, i.e. university hospitals. There is also something in that regulation, but it is very important that it does not go at the expense of availability if necessary for immediate help, and that is what this debate, as I see it, is really about. I can only assure you that the meeting that Health Nord has now announced that they will have the most important actors in this right over Easter, I will of course follow up, see which race it is added up to to assure the population that one will be more sure that the help is there when one needs it, not many hours after one needs it, and see if the measures that are proposed are sufficient. If they're not, we'll see about other things. I hear that the representative Davøy and others believe that one should also look at the regulation of which the government of Davøy sjål was a member, then laid. I'm open to everything, but I'm not going to conclude in advance. But let's now give Health Nord the opportunity to have the meeting they have called for right after Easter, and take the measures that have been announced. Then I'll make sure I follow it very closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e972	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e990	The background to this interview is the increased focus ADHD has received through several television programmes and media articles in recent months, and a UN report on increased drug use associated with the treatment of ADHD among children and young people in a number of countries. In the course of this interview, it has become clear that there are several areas of expertise that differ in the diagnosis of children and young people with ADHD and therefore also in treatment methods. As a wholesaler, it is not that easy to deal with this, but that the Storting takes the ADHD issue seriously shows, among other things. The budgetary position of the Health and Welfare Committee, where the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, says: ‘The majority of the Committee considers that the competence of ADHD needs to be increased in the future in order to provide more accurate diagnosis and organisation. [[...]] The majority also consider it important to focus on basic research at ADHD, and that this must be done in collaboration between several research environments including the University of Oslo. The majority is very satisfied with that 3 million. krona for basic research on ADHD is proposed to be continued in 2006.» I have also discovered another party that obviously has great interests in the ADHD issue, and these are pharmaceutical companies. There are probably more staging representatives than I experienced after focusing on the medication of children and young people with ADHD. Norway is high on the statistics of the United Nations report on medication during ADHD treatment. The report addresses developments up to 2004, but data from 2005 show a further sharp increase in the medication of children and young people in Norway. The questions raised include:: Do we need to pay more attention to this development? Is there an unfortunate prescription of drugs in practice? Do we have a professional basis to say that drug use in this type of treatment is on the right level? It's interesting to note that the drug use for this group is much lower in our neighbouring country Sweden. One of the questions I hope the Council of State might say is whether or not some initiative will be taken by the Ministry to find out why Sweden makes itself a low-consumption country and Norway does not. Ten years ago, there was almost a taboo in child psychiatry to medicate children. The background was that, on a professional basis, it was considered irresponsible to use chemical solutions that no one knew the long-term consequences for developing children. Psychiatrist Pål Zeiner believes that there are only 35,000 children with ADHD in Norway. My question is, is it that someone thinks that diagnosis is being taken too easily, that children who don't act as normal, i.e. within the A4 template how many want children to be, get a diagnosis because the symptoms are correct? The new thing is not that children have suffering and symptoms. The new thing is, as I understand it, that the symptoms are explained with cause in genes and biochemistry and not in the child's environment, environment and school, i.e. the context in which the child lives. The consequence of this view is that you have begun to medicate far more children, as statistics show. I would quote from an article by Per Are Løkke, a specialist in clinical pediatrics, which was published in the newspaper of March 10th this year. He writes: ‘We are facing a paradigm shift in the understanding of the child’s suffering, where the humanistic vision of man is pushed into the background. Humanism interprets the turmoil or depression of a child as an expression of something that a child struggles with in his or her own life. Nor can the child be understood separately from his/her surroundings. As a result, symptoms are vital. They're the only way to express that something is bad and difficult. The first bid is to offer the child time and patience, so that contact can arise with a responsive and inquiring therapist. With this established trust, the child will dare to express through play, stories, dreams, drawings and actions what is really bad – and have an opportunity to recover the parts of himself that have been wounded. In the heart of the humanistic vision lies that the child is a sensory and thinking person who must be understood from his own history. It's obviously what disappears when the biological vision of man enters the arena. The child is no longer offered time and patience where trust and contact can arise with another person. Short-term thinking is on the ground.’» Many demand professionally good school care and believe that it is by chance that each municipality can offer good enough mastering measures for children with behavioural problems. Children’s mental health is of little importance in teacher training, and there is too much time before children are diagnosed and given help, and knowledge and resource availability obviously need to be improved. ‘Course in self-control, borderment and sanctification should be an offer to all parents of children with ADHD diagnosis,’ says the head of the ADHD association, Anne Kate Jonge. She's sorry to get an offer. She stresses that medication is only a small part of what must be a broad treatment scheme. As we can see, more departments than the Ministry of Health and Welfare need to be involved if children and young people with ADHD are to receive good help in living, and I hope the Council of State can say something about a concerted and coordinated work for these children. There are no rapid treatments for ADHD symptoms. The aim of the treatment is to reduce the concentration problems, impulsivity and hyperactivity through different instruments. As my article shows, I am reasonably skeptical of increasing medical use in the treatment of children, and I have the impression that there are several professional environments sharing this scepticism. It's worrying that 5-8 pst. of children and young people have mental problems of some kind and where most people need treatment. Do we see the outlines of a development in which the medication of children and young people with mental disorders becomes the treatment method, leading to the exclusion of others and, in the view of many, better but more resource- and time-consuming treatment methods? Is that what psychoanalyst Julie Kristeva describes, that we are living in hyper-efficient social machinery that hangs on to a naive dream of a life without pain and mental work? With this dream, the ambiguous, vulnerable, beautiful and time-consuming humanism also disappears. Maybe our culture is the least free of all? But a pill may well also dull this concern!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1030	Let me first say that I think it's good that the interpellant and others focus on this important topic. For the later years, as has been said here, there has been an increase in registered behavioural problems in Norwegian children. However, we do not know whether this is because we have improved on statistics, whether better availability for the assessment of mental health protection for children and young people is a contributing cause, or whether the increase is due to other societal conditions. Our knowledge of root factors at ADHD is based on broad international research. The condition is considered to be a neurological developmental disorder characterised by anxiety, concentration failure, restlessness and impulsiveness. The symptoms appear early in childhood and often persist in childhood and adulthood. The current Ministry of Health took the initiative in 2002 to review the offer of diagnosis and treatment for children and adolescents with ADHD, to which the interpellant refers. The SINTEF report showed that it takes about four years for parents to identify the problem until the service provider diagnoses it. Reasons may be uncertain as to where to turn, difficulties in explaining the problem to service providers, and lack of coordination and coordination of actions and services. The survey also showed clearly that there is a need for much better organized school provision. The consumption of stimulants by ADHD, as pointed out by the interpellant, has increased sharply in recent years in Norway and in many other countries. In the Nordic region, only Iceland is higher than Norway in the consumption of such medicinal products. There is no international norm on the level at which drug treatment should lie, but I fully agree with the interpellant that the consumption of drugs in Norway seems very high. In 2004, 8 700 children under the age of 18 received prescriptions for stimulants, according to the National Institute of Public Health. In 2005, the number increased to 11,700 children and young people under the age of 18. Four out of five who get such drugs are boys. The increase will probably have to be seen to some extent in the light of the Roadmap for Mental Health, where it has been an objective to increase the capacity and accessibility of children and young people with mental illness. In 2004, almost 40,000 children and young people with mental illness received treatment in the field of mental health protection for children and young people. It's almost a doubling from 1998. Well 6,700 children and young people were referred to for hyperactivity, which is the single diagnosis where the number of referrals has increased most. Increased knowledge of ADHD and greater transparency about mental disorders may also contribute to this. Last year, the Directorate for Social and Health provided an ADHD diagnostic and treatment guide for primary and specialist health services. This underlines that a final diagnosis is to be made after a thorough investigation by a specialist and that a medicinal product should never be administered without the simultaneous application of parental guidance and special educational support measures. This guide and the new prescription rules for drugs will, I hope, probably tighten up the drug supply for children and young people, as well as contribute to fewer misdiagnoses. Sintef has been entrusted with the task of evaluating legislation and guidance. The State Medicines Agency follows international assessments of adverse reactions and advises Norwegian doctors. A cooperation agreement has recently been concluded between the regional health establishments and the pharmaceutical industry to ensure good professional development. Enquiries from parents to children with ADHD show that there is a high degree of uncertainty about medicines and possible side effects. I would therefore ask the Social and Health Directorate, in cooperation with relevant professional communities, to produce easily understandable information for parents and for larger children and young people. Mestring is about the experience of having the strength to meet challenges and the feeling of having control over your own life. At ADHD, training and mastering everyday life, as the interpellant also pointed out, is important for both children, parents and adults with ADHD. Training of patients and relatives is one of the four statutory tasks of hospitals. We now have 37 learning and mastering centres. The offer has been particularly targeted at patients with chronic somatic diseases, but it now includes patients with mental illness to a greater extent. Five healthcare companies offer courses or other activities for patients with ADHD. In cooperation with the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, my ministry has supported for several years the testing and implementation of research-based family and community-based methods in dealing with serious behavioural problems. These methods are aimed in particular at eliminating the skills of parents, so that they are better able to master the parent role. The results of the evaluations are so far positive – children meet more competent parents, and they are doing better. The size has previously asked the Government to explain how research efforts and practical work, interdisciplinary and across administrative levels, can be strengthened for the help of children with ADHD and similar behavioural difficulties. The Directorate of Education has been commissioned to prepare a status report by 15 April of this year, i.e. in a short time. I will then discuss with the Minister of Knowledge and the Minister of Children and Gender Equality how together we can follow this up so that a more holistic approach is taken. I believe, like the interpellant, that it is important to follow the medication of children and young people very carefully. Especially is it important, I think, to have a critical look at the long-term medication of children with mental disorders. The Public Health Institute has therefore developed a strategy for monitoring and research in view of the use of stimulants. The Institute for Public Health has also established a Norwegian and international network for research at ADHD. A long-term follow-up study is also planned for children with ADHD based on their mother and child studies. In the order documents for the current year for health companies, I have asked for research competence on, among other things. Priority shall be given to mental health. We need more knowledge about the causes and occurrence of ADHD, about the course, about treatment and about the possible follow-up conditions, such as: depression, behavioural disorders, intoxication and crime. From 2006, a new research programme on mental health has been established under the Norwegian Research Council. Research on ADHD must be continued and should include clinical and epidemiological research as well as basic research. The government has also announced that we will launch a nationwide research programme on women’s health. Better knowledge of ADHD in girls and women is also part of this research programme. ADHD is much more common among prisoners than among the rest of the population. Several cooperation projects are ongoing between the judicial and health authorities in order to obtain an overview of the occurrence. I want to discuss with the Minister of Justice whether there is a need for closer cooperation to provide better medical services to prisoners with ADHD. It is my responsibility as Minister of Health and Care to ensure that those in need of help get it. Offers to patients with ADHD relate to the responsibilities of several departments. I would therefore like to discuss with the responsible state councils how we can better provide parents and children with the best possible choice between medication and other relief measures. I will come back to Stortinget with a briefing during this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1066	I would like to thank the Council of State for her reply. I find it reassuring that the Council of State sees its responsibility in this matter together with both the Minister of Knowledge and the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. I am also very happy that someone sees that the offer around both schools and in terms of family care is not good enough. Therefore, I also hope that the work that the departments will do together will strengthen the provision of treatment. There's a lot of evidence of how parents of children with ADHD are struggling. Many times it actually troubles the family. It's hard for us to imagine, if you haven't seen it closely, how big a challenge a meeting has. This is why it is so vital that relief measures are put in place at several levels, both at home and in school — and also if medication is needed. So I want to thank you for the answer, and I am very pleased that several departments are joining together and thinking of a strategy on the important and growing problem that we face in our society when children suffer from mental illness.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1073	I can only say that I fully agree with everything the interpellant said now as well. It's very important for me to say that I think it's absolutely essential that we work together across the department boundaries, across professional environments, and that one ensures that giving drugs is not an easy solution. Medicines are important for some, but medicines should never be given without the application of other aid measures. There we have seen quite a lot of failure, and we're going to follow it up so that children and young people, and also adults, for that matter, with ADHD get better offers in the future than what is being offered today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1078	There's a reason to thank the representative Schjellaa for his strong commitment to a very demanding case. He stresses that we must have deep respect for all the children, all the young people, all the families and all the adults who are struggling with mental problems, and try to understand the despair it is for those who have not been diagnosed, for those who have been diagnosed late in life, and for those who feel relieved that just their child is getting medicine for his behavior, anxiety and anxiety. We're going to take care of ourselves well to be oblique in some direction in this serious field. In the Workers' Party, we are pleased that the alarming development around ADHD is now being put on the political agenda and drawn into the main hall. The Council of State's response to the interpellant underlines the seriousness of the issue, while at the same time experiencing that the Council of State invites to a non-prejudice debate, and that there is a strong willingness on the part of the Government to follow up developments and use resources to find out more about this demanding field. The Council of State rightly emphasises the focus that is already focused on the field, and assumes responsibility for providing it to those in need. All media focus in their time on the ADHD problem also underlines that there is not one answer here, but a number. With what we already know, in the view of the Workers' Party, there must be reason to look critically at the diagnosis and medication of behavioural problems. We know that children get good help from medicine, and that for some, it's the only help. But we have to make sure in every way that it's the right treatment for the right person. The fact is that at all times there have been alarming and unfocused children and adults alike. Anxiety and concentration failure may be signs of many underlying causes that have nothing to do with gene errors. I choose to believe in them within the discipline that claims that in many cases the growing-up environment of children can explain the behavioral problems. Income must not be taken into account for the existence of a diagnosis. We have to try all the methods instead of giving children medicine, if that's not the last resort, and that's a debate we have to have the courage to take. In this dialogue, we hope that the entire subject will work with us, as the Council of State said. I was both calmed and worried about reading a chronicle of a psychologist specialist other than the one the Kjellaen referred to, namely Espen Idås. I was alarmed because he put words on the uncertainty I felt as a politician about the ADHD problem, and calmly I was because he put the search light on the problem and shows other ways than just the medication of children and young people in particular. He stresses in his introduction to the chronicle that there is no chronicle for or against medicine in treatment, either for or against different occupational groups, but that he wants to put the search light on a trend he experiences as alarming within his field of competence. I quote from the chronicle to Espen I cans: ‘I cannot believe that a brain organ dysfunction should increase to such an extent in the population as the ADHD figures indicate. If a similar increase over the same period had occurred with a type of cancer in children, all resources would be deployed to find out what led to the dramatic increase in the number of cases.» These are signals that there is reason to take very seriously. We have started working on a very demanding field. What we need is more knowledge, more experience, more research and more dialogue. This is about future for our children, and we cannot let go of the matter until we have found more answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1098	ADHD – this disease has been named many times, but it is about children who have an unwanted behavior, hyperactive children with concentration problems, who are unable to adapt to the social community of their friends, family and school. Later in life, children often have problems with alcohol and crime. What is it that makes all these thousands of children unable to adapt and that they must be treated with stimulants? For the time being, little is known about the cause of ADHD. It is described as a congenital neurobiological dysfunction that researchers believe is one of the most hereditary mental disorders. It is also assumed that the disease can be caused by damage during pregnancy, premature birth, environmental poisons, food, or lack of important substances. Care failure or lack of demarcation and poor structure in the assignment may also help to increase problems. A lot has changed in society, both in families, kindergartens and schools, which can help to provoke this behavior. NTNU studies show that students in open schools are treated five times as often as students in more traditional schools. Is it really an increase in the number of children who develop this undesirable behavior, or is it due to the increase mentioned that many children are now diagnosed with a disease? What is normal in the case of abnormal behaviour? Where does the limit of when you can say that it's definitely about a disease? We're all different, and naturally, we've inherited most of our parents through genes. We inherit both visible and hidden genes. It concerns the appearance, artistic facilities, musicality, disposal of some diseases, but also the condition and manner of being. The facilities may be affected and developed, but they are located there. Therefore, it is not particularly alarming that those who have had behavioral problems themselves have children with the same problems. It is serious to get such a diagnosis, although many parents say they have felt a relief when the diagnosis is established and help is offered. They have experienced the despair of seeing that the child does not function socially. It will be important to have a safer diagnosis in order to provide proper help and treatment early. The causes of the behavioural problems or the disease may be many, and it is therefore important to consider how we can reduce the causes of this behaviour. Several of the drugs used are closely related to amphetamines. It is estimated that drug treatment will reduce the risk of subsequent depression, drug abuse and crime. But what do we know? What is the side effect and the long-term effect, and maybe you want to discover that the children who are being treated today will get sensitised? Side effects such as heart fibrillation, anxiety, depression, fatal liver injury and attempted suicide have already been identified. Medications can dampen and eliminate symptoms effectively, but medications do not remove the cause of the disorder. Never forget to address the cause or to prevent where possible. Alternative solutions are also available, with better nutrition and altered diet. American Russell Barkley has developed a program where parents learn self-control and temperament, which makes them tackle their children better. This application has been tested at the Folloclinic. At the end of the course, the results showed that several of the children no longer met the criteria for ADHD diagnosis. The right treatment for one does not need to be the right treatment for another. For many, medication may also be the best treatment in the future, along with other instruments. But it is important to focus more on research to find reasons, safer ways to diagnose and good treatments that are not harmful in the long term. Treatment methods must be based on a professional basis and cannot be left to parents alone. Some research has been carried out both internationally and nationally, but there is still considerable uncertainty and considerable disagreement among experts. Much research remains, and it is therefore important to provide funds for this important work. It will also be important to ensure that there is sufficient professional competence in the primary healthcare system to make the necessary assessments before patients are referred to the specialist healthcare system and to follow up children who are not diagnosed but who still have a behavioural problem. However, the most important thing in the future will be to try to prevent children from developing mental health problems and ADHD. This is important for the person involved, for the family and for the whole community, and I am therefore very happy that this matter is on the agenda today, and that the Council of State wants to follow up the matter so that you get a better offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1126	The interpellant deserves tribute for inviting the Stortinget to this debate, and the Council of State also deserves tribute for a nuanced response. The interpellant asked in his post a lot of questions, much more questions than what is common from this pulpit. I think that is also commendable. But what's common to all of these questions is that we don't know the answers to any of them. In such a situation, there is at least reason to state that both journalists, programme creators on television and others who are concerned with polarization at all costs and who are concerned with either or standpoints – either the answer is medicine, or the answer is anything but medicine – is clearly to characterize as false prophets. And they do great damage, because those who preach the kind of oblique message in such a difficult terrain as this, risk adding problems and additional suffering to both parents and children beyond what is already the case. One thing there should be full agreement about in this room, and that is that this is not either – or, and it is not of the fields that are suitable for absolute creeds in one direction or another. On the other hand, it should be easy to agree that there is an area that calls for more research, from basic basic research of a biological/biomedical nature to different kinds of behavioral research. For research promotions too, it is important to stress that it is not useful to focus either on purely clinical testing of drug use – it is useful and necessary – or to focus on other types of psychological or social science approach. And here too, it's obviously necessary to do both. It is also important to try to create a common language and a common approach for the researchers of different kinds who move into this field, because very often the problem is that they speak so different languages, they have so different ways of interpreting the problem, and they have so different methods that they almost do not come into contact with each other at all. There I think the Council of State is absolutely right when she emphasises the need for the overall health authorities to do what is possible to establish a common forum where it is possible to discuss across professional schools and different professional approaches. But then there's also reason to stress that none of us know per. today whether it is a sub-consumption or an over-consumption of one or the other — one or the other approach in this field. The only thing we know for sure is that, to the extent that diagnostics are made and the prescriptions for the use of stimulants, there is an absolute requirement that adequate guidance, communication with the parents and with sound professional follow-up should be provided which is also able to correct the course in case of adverse reactions. If it turns out that the treatment does not work, you also need to have a follow-up that will stop the treatment — if it is obvious that it does not work. At the same time, it is important to put this into an even wider context, namely that child and youth psychiatry is the most serious aspect of mental health protection, which has the greatest difficulty in meeting the need. Let me remind you, as we had been promoting here in the Chamber a short time ago, that when the average waiting time for access to the specialist health service for children and young people in this area is 80 days – that means that very many people have to wait much longer than that – then we have a joint effort to increase capacity and reduce that waiting time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1139	I also want to start by giving honey and praise to the Rune J. Skjelleraa, who has taken up this interpellation. It's a very important interpellation and a very important theme that you need to discuss in the Stortinget. I also think that the debate shows that we need at least to get the shades of what usually comes out through often tabloidized media. The ADHD problem affects a lot of people – more and more, some of whom have been involved – and there is no consistent answer to how to deal with it. Some would think that too many are medicated, and others would think the opposite. Nevertheless, a United Nations report shows that there has been a marked increase in drug use associated with the treatment of ADHD in a number of countries and that Norway is high on statistics. For SV, it is important that Norway should be an inclusive society, where we do not diagnose everything that we consider to be an aberration at any time. The interpellant was in on this from his humanistic point of view – I thought it was very nice to hear. I think it's important to mention this, too, because we're increasingly asking for diagnosis here to land. At the same time, there is often a long way between the really good, inclusive measures, those that require flexibility, resources, and a lot of care and humanity. In Westfold, my home country, there lives a farmer named Per. He wrote me a letter a couple of years ago, because he wanted to tell me about some young guys that he had placed with him a few days a week, because they didn't work very well at school. Everyone had diagnoses of different kinds and tons of problems in their luggage. Their mothers should probably have had the King's medal in gold. I also met them, it was a very strong and great meeting, and it gave me at least a very clear understanding of how important it is to provide just that kind of space and opportunities to give these young people some real mastery experiences, so they're not just going to run into defeat. What Per wrote in the letter was the following: ‘These are young people who lose on many fronts in life, professionally at school and socially both at school and in leisure. That's why it's important that they do something they like and that they master and get credit for. They are often outside and spectators of life, so they do "much" to be seen and heard." There's almost poetry in what he writes, it wouldn't have been because it's really awfully brutal. Many of the stories about neglected children with ADHD or ADHD-like stories come from a school that doesn't have the ability or the power to care for them. Many are fighting to get a diagnosis in order to ensure that their children are followed up and arranged that they are actually entitled to, regardless of whether they have a diagnosis or not. This may, in the worst case, represent abuse against the children and families concerned. When I spent a week in childhood and youth psychiatry in Westfold last summer, I felt that they were very concerned about this: they felt that because of poor community economics and little resources in school, that was exactly what happened -- they were increasingly asking for diagnostics to get rights that they really had. Alternatives to violence have also warned that very many people with ADHD diagnostics have a background of violence, abuse and care failure, at least from their point of view, and therefore medication should not be an easy substitute for therapy and help. This is also part of the big picture. When it's said, many people also tell about how medication has ‘click them in place’, so to speak. We heard about it, we who saw the play 'Help, I'm free! Free to what?’ last Friday, played by prisoners and former inmates, a group that is strongly overrepresented in ADHD statistics – it was also the Council of State in, and I am very pleased about that. I also heard about it in Bergen when I was visiting there about a week and a half ago. Then a mother told me how important it is to give proper follow-up to those who are being medicated, among other things. because the shame and despair can come in full force for those who ‘wake up’ and see themselves sailed as others have seen them. It is therefore good that new prescription rules from May 2005 and new professional counsellor strengthen the requirements for diagnosis and investigation and are expected to tighten the use of drugs for children and young people. The guide emphasises that medicines for children should never be given without psychosocial support. In the end, I want to say that I think there have been many wise contributions, and it has been very nice to follow this debate. And I think it's good that we get the shades and also humility in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1168	The interpellant refers in its interpellation to a report from SINTEF. In the same report, SINTEF points out that there is a lack of capacity, coordination and guidance in the treatment of children and young people with ADHD. In recent times, like others, I have received a number of enquiries about ADHD, mainly from professionals and relatives. It strikes me that the disagreement is great about both cause and treatment. Is ADHD an congenital genetic defect in the brain that results in reduced production of certain neurotransmitters, or is ADHD a type of deficiency due to social, educational and nutritional failure? These two so different theories about ADHD are found in the trade union environment both in Norway and abroad. This also leads to disagreements about what is the best treatment over time. The more I have read and put myself into the matter, the more worried and worried I have become. Think if it's right that the ADHD diagnosis for some actually has non-genetic causes, and then they're treated with medicine. I've been getting some insight into the last few weeks and actually read some foreign research reports that might indicate this. It is also a reality that the representative of Thorkildsen pointed out that medical treatment has been decisively positive for some children, young people and their families, and they themselves have expressed it. But there is every reason to call out a warning when we in Norway have had a time-lapse of the use of ADHD drugs in recent years. Like the interpellant, I also have a bunch of questions. Do children with ADHD today receive alternative treatment prior to the use of medications, as stated to have them? What's the cause of ADHD? What are the consequences of long-term medical treatment? Do these drugs work as well after many years of use as they do when you start up? I have recently also read in foreign articles about major serious side effects of ADHD medicines. Is that correct? What kind of research exists, and what should we research further? What is the very best treatment over time? It is a reality that this is a diagnosis that children and young people have, and that they are struggling with for a long time. Is there also a misdiagnosis in some cases? Disunity is great, and many are uncertain. I believe that the Council of State, in addition to all she has started, must gather as soon as possible the professional environment from abroad with different experiences and attitudes, as well as users and the department concerned. I have previously proposed a consensus conference, and I am very pleased that the Council of State has so far described this as a good proposal which she will consider. Some of the relatively new treatments referred to by the Council of State and used in child protection and psychiatry were initiated just after consensus conferences. It is also essential that different treatment methods used are continuously documented and the results are made visible, positive or negative. What I want to call user research is too low a priority in Norway today. Then I think far beyond the effects and side effects of medical treatment. I'm thinking about pure user research — having a disease, different treatments that are used, how these work, what it is like to live with disease over time, etc. Like many others, I thank the interpellant for a good interpellation, and I also want to thank the Council of State, which will follow up. This is urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1186	The left is pleased that the representative of the Skjärlaa addresses this issue, a problem that the left has been working on for a long time. When the Left put in the previous government, a lot of work was done in focusing on children and adults with the diagnosis of ADHD. But there is still a lot of work to be done in this field, and one hopes that more attention will be paid to the problem of ADHD, so that we can continue with the work that was started. What the left did in government was to get an assessment of the state of health of prisoners in Norwegian prison, because studies assume that more than 30 pst. Of the prisoners, ADHD. By providing these with a diagnosis and a treatment offer, there is a great chance that prisoners with ADHD diagnosis will have a life outside the walls that reduces the risk of new crimes being committed and, most importantly, that they will have the opportunity to live a new life. Resources were also used to launch an action plan for children and young people in need, for children and young people with special needs have often been victims of professional struggles and rigid public systems. The left will focus especially on these children. There are no simple answers and measures to help children and young people in a difficult situation — as many have mentioned earlier in the debate. More money alone hardly solves the problems, until those are the problems too complicated. A child in a difficult situation needs someone to talk to. It needs a good tool with concrete and adapted measures. Should a child be able to rely on the auxiliary equipment, it must be seen and heard. The left will take a force cut-off for children and young people in a pinch. As many people have said, this is a debate without concrete answers, but with many questions. This is why we want to ensure that children and young people with ADHD receive professional assistance to improve their skills on ADHD, in particular teachers, child care workers and health care providers, in order to provide teachers with technical assistance to facilitate education for students with ADHD so that children with ADHD receive special follow-up when they exchange school jobs specifically to prevent drug abuse among young people and children with ADHD and work for more research on the causes and treatment of ADHD, especially child and youth psychiatry, so that children and young people receive help and are not referred to adult psychiatry and further development of conflict councils, so that young offenders are given a chance to make up for themselves. It's important for me and the Left that this debate is not just about children with ADHD; you also have to think about that there are 100,000 adults in this country who also have ADHD. A one-sided focus in this debate will be wrong, for children will once grow up, and there must also be an offer for this group of ADHD. Interpellant focuses on diagnosis, type of treatment and research in the field. The left believes it is important that more resources are put in place to research and find the right treatment for each individual. A type of treatment can work fine on one child, while it will not work on another. Parents must be involved to a much greater extent than in the past in the type of treatment chosen, for there are a number of different types of treatment. Here, it must be respected that some parents choose to say no to medication, rather than to try treatment with, for example. diet. The debate on ADHD must not be a professional struggle, but a debate that focuses on good and individual solutions that can help people with ADHD for a better life.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1225	The representative of the Kjellaa addresses a very topical issue in his interview with the Minister of Health and Health, namely that there is a difference of view in Norway as to whether the number of ADHD diagnosed is too high or whether it is too low. Similarly, the debate in various media over time has shown us that there is a different perception of what is right for those who have been diagnosed after the investigation. When several of us have taken an interest in this area that concerns ADHD, there are several reasons for this. One reason is that more and more drugs are being used in the treatment of children and young people with the diagnosis. Another reason is the questions about whether the school is adapted to the challenges of children and young people with ADHD and other special problems. These are serious issues, which need to be addressed at different levels. When drug use grows as we see it now, it may be that we in Norway have not previously diagnosed and treated many enough with drugs, as the Council of State also did. But it could also be an expression that other alternative methods of dealing with ADHD don't work properly enough. In recent years, schools have undergone major changes. The change that may be greatest is the dissolution of the fixed class structure – and above to groups. In addition, the fixed schedule has been replaced by weekly schedules. This places great demands on the student’s ability to structure his or her own schoolwork. In addition, project work is a common method of working in the Norwegian school. I think it makes the school more interesting for most students, but it poses great challenges for those students who need structure in their day-to-day school. Many suggest that this is one of the reasons for increased drug use, that the school and the need for calmness and adaptability of others lie at the heart. In that case, this is very worrying. We see a professional disagreement about how to treat people with ADHD. Doctors, psychologists, educators and specialised educators have different approaches to the issue. We also see that people who themselves have the diagnosis have different experiences of how it can best be handled. It tells us that there are individuals we're dealing with, who individually have different needs. For the professional community, it presents challenges in terms of coordinating good guidelines on how to meet the challenges of these disorders for individuals, for parents, and for kindergarten and school. I want an integrated school where all children and young people can go together, but it presents great challenges in terms of how to facilitate individual students, including those with a statutory right to special education. Adapted training and a school for all have not removed the need for special pedagogical competence, rather on the contrary. However, adapted training and special education needs to be organised in a way that strengthens the actions undertaken. In addition to educational-psychological counselling and strong centres of expertise around the country, we see that we need special pedagogical skills at individual schools. The existence of special pedagogical skills in schools, on the other hand, is not a matter of course, and it may make it difficult to follow up on those young people who have received, for example: an ADHD diagnosis. This is a challenge for the kindergarten and school sectors that I think we should address as our own problem when discussing this matter. Special pedagogical research in the Norwegian kindergarten and school system is, according to the trade community, itself economical, in the sense that special education is a young subject in research. There is a great need for this type of research, not least in the wake of the reforms that have taken place in our school. This research is also important in view of the interdisciplinary efforts I think we need to get a consensus on how children and young people with the diagnosis of ADHD should be treated. Here, we need a power cap, so that we can get a variety of treatment and follow-up methods adapted to the individual, which several have been in. At least we don't have to get there that medication will be the only solution. I believe that our Minister for Health and Family Affairs will address this difficult issue in a good way, and it is important that she does so in conjunction with the Minister of Knowledge and the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, so that we can address this multidisciplinary challenge where medical knowledge must be combined with pedagogy, psychology and special pedagogical competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1244	First of all, I want to thank the interpellant for bringing up this topic. It's very important and interesting. Then I have to say that I feel that sad and sad that the first interpellant does is to hang out the Progress Party by saying that unfortunately they did not join the Government's proposal and bet tied up with the ADHD. No, we didn't do it for the simple reason that we went a lot further. There's a lot of ways to tell a truth. Developments in Norway, both in the number of cases of children and young people diagnosed with ADHD and in the development of medication, are worrying. The next question is: why is it that we have an explosive increase in the number of people diagnosed with ADHD – why and how? Is it true that we have become sicker overnight, or is it because of our lack of basic research and understanding of the causes of the problem? As far as medication is concerned, as we see it, it's too many good. For others, there are completely different measures and follow-up than medicine that provide the best results. But one thing we also have to remember is, what happens if we jump over the medication? The Health Directorate has developed a guide for diagnosis, but there are no tests in themselves that confirm the diagnosis of ADHD, no blood tests, X-rays, brain scans or psychological tests. It is also the case that the scientific community is very eloquent about the cause of hyperactive, depressive social acts. One of the country's leading researchers in the field, Terje Sagvolden, believes ADHD is the most hereditary psychiatric or neurological disorder we have, in other words, with genes and genetic changes as the cause. The case also points out that other causes — education, the environment, drug use, PCBs and other different external substances and influences — can trigger/trigger the disorder. What you end up with in many ways is that our understanding and knowledge are too little. Although, in principle, I believe that everyone in this room is genuinely concerned about and wants to create a society in which everyone is given an equal opportunity to adapt to both physical, psychological and social, it is today for many people who unfortunately fall on the outside of this, linked to little acceptable social attitude and behaviour. The Progress Party has for many years – and when I say many years, it is that already in 1996–1997 the Progress Party promoted by John I. Alvheim proposals related to the ADHD problem – wanted to get a basic research centre in Norway that can research widely on ADHD. This has to be an addition to today’s scattered research. If we manage to do this, we will be much better able to meet tomorrow's challenges by building our understanding on research, knowledge and insight that will be able to care for those who have ADHD, their families and society in a better way in the future. Unfortunately, the inter-pellant and the current government did not wish to have this research centre during the previous budgetary procedure. I hope, then, that at the next budgetary procedure there may be an opportunity to put this in place, because we need it – and we need it sorely.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1261	Between 15 and 20 pst. of all children and young people in Norway have mental problems. Among Norwegian 15- and 16-year-olds, every four girls and every ten boys have such problems. These figures are from the National Institute of Public Health and are based on surveys in Norwegian states. A total of 8 pst. of children and young people under 18 years of age have a mental illness that would have been diagnosed if they had sought help. They're hard-to-treat. Before puberty, two out of three of these guys, and behavioral problems, attention disorders, and ADHD dominate. It's an important topic that Rune J. Skjillaa has addressed today. The most important thing for me is not whether there are a correct number of children who have been diagnosed, or whether there are several children who should have had a diagnosis. What's most important to SV and to me is that we get focus on our children, and that they are ensured the help they need. A development towards a diagnostic society is dangerous. At the same time, we know that very many children have not received the diagnosis they should have received. The theme that has been addressed today affects many fields. One of the most important areas, where many more measures should be taken, is school and educational areas. The school should be for our children. It is necessary that we do more than what has been done up to now, to ensure that all children receive the organized training that they are legally entitled to. We have to take our children seriously. Too many desperate parents and children don't get the help they need. We need to show that the children’s need for extra help has to decide which measures are going to be taken at school, not if the children have been diagnosed. We need a strong and new focus on the school being available for our students. For many, it helps with more organized and practical work at school. For many, medication is necessary, but it is important not just to medicate. It is important that our students feel that they have a meaningful school day that everyone feels mastery. A large group of men are about to fall outside. Guys are far worse than girls in the PISA international student test. In 2003, a quarter of Norwegian boys got the lowest or second lowest score on the reading test. About one in three boys cut out high school before they have passed the exam. The highest rate of drop-out in vocational training is known to result in difficulties in getting a job afterwards. Too many children have to wait too long before they get the help they need. The ADHD Association believes that it takes about four years from parents to realize that the child needs help until a diagnosis is made. At that time, problems are growing for many children and becoming invincible — while waiting for help. More training is needed for teachers in different types of problems that students are struggling with. We know that the difference between schools is enormous, and also with regard to the ability of schools to follow the advice given by the PP service. The help that children receive today is too random, and depends a lot on the kind of skills that exist in each school. In many schools, an extra assistant is inserted. We know that this can lead to the situation actually getting worse and not better. Therefore, it is important that we focus on the quality and competence of our teachers. It is important to strengthen the specialised health service, but it is also important that measures are put at the lowest possible level in the first line service. Firstly, teachers need to be given increased skills. We have to look at a new type of teacher training. Secondly, it is important to strengthen school health services — I ask the Council of State to assess it. We know that school health services work, and a strengthened school health service will do much better everyday for very many students.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1284	I would like to thank you for many constructive and good contributions to this difficult matter. It is nice to be able to participate in a debate where you do not shoot or throw at each other, but you may just be allowed to raise some questions – without getting a sloppy answer back. In this way, I think this debate has been very nice. There are many issues raised, and there are points to some areas where we can do something, including: strengthen a range of treatment measures both at school, towards families, etc. It is good that no one is sure that there are too many diagnostics, or too few – we do not know. But I hear that everyone is skeptical about a development in the use of drugs that one doesn't quite know is on the right level or not. I want to challenge the Council of State to seek to bring together the research communities, so that one can in a way develop greater competences at least in areas where one agrees – there are some – with one another. There's no one who's served with research environments on the one hand and research environments on the other who's kind of like dog and cat. It is my challenge to the Council of State that, through the departments affected by this problem, she seeks to bring together these research environments – as the Stortinget has said by granting money for research, and by stressing that all the environments will be involved in this. This may be a good opportunity to bring both researchers and practitioners together — both here in Norway and international expertise. Thank you for a nice and constructive debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1297	I would also like to thank you for a very good debate and very many good and useful recordings, which I will take with me in the work on. It is important that there is such a broad political commitment in an area where very many people are struggling, children, young people, parents – and also adults who have been diagnosed, and adults who have not been diagnosed but who obviously have problems. I'm also glad that there aren't so many oblique opinions about what's best, and what's right. I think the most important thing now is to try to find out more, get more knowledge and more research – which many people have been involved in – gather wide-ranging research environments, departments and professional environments at all stages. It is important that one gets more family measures. Therefore, cooperation with the Department of that area is crucial. The school is mentioned by several — and the school health service. Low-threshold services are important in this context, there is no doubt about it. I can also mention the justice sector and prisons — we are talking here about many prisoners — and the treatment part in the whole area of health. I'm optimistic, in the sense that I don't think we can solve this tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, but by all levels coming together a little bit more, I think it's possible to come up with more measures – for the benefit of those we're talking about here. I would repeat that I think the proposal for a consensus conference is good. I'll take it with me to see if it can be a possible path. Hopefully, we can come to a little bit more agreement in this important area than we might be looking at different teams, especially on the research side.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1310	The examination of case No. 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1328	Most abuses against the elderly occur in their own homes and by people close to them. We're having trouble figuring out the scale, but we know it's a big problem. Hospitals, primary health services, police, social services and municipal care services can all tell us about cases where elderly people have been subjected to violence, but where the victim refuses to tell us what has happened. «You know, your mother is going a long way,» the local community publisher called her material on the abuse of the elderly. It's from as far back as 1988. Three years later, in 1991, Vern started for the elderly in Manglerud City in Oslo. Today, 15 years later, Vern is established for the elderly in three municipalities – Bærum, Oslo and Trondheim. I hope, of course, and believe that other municipalities too have a focus on the problem, but there is a lot of evidence that they all, most of them, do not have an action chain that provides a good enough reporting and follow-up device for the many violent elderly. I visited Vern for the elderly in Bærum earlier this week. This service is established as part of the municipality's prevention team, consisting of outreach teams, Protection of the elderly and the welfare community. An estimated two years' work is linked to Vern for the elderly. So there is no huge resource-intensive investment in a municipality with more than 100,000 inhabitants. Nevertheless, it is an effective service for the inhabitants of this municipality. The protection of the elderly in Bærum is quite new and is still working to become known among its inhabitants. Outreach teams contact all citizens over the age of 75 who are not already covered by municipal care services, for example. to inform about the protection of the elderly. A simple brochure has been prepared available at senior centres, medical offices, etc. The office says that they already have more than enough to do, and that they expect more progress, as the service is still not very well known. Protection for the elderly in Bærum tells of a good cooperation with the hospital, the police and the primary health service. The police in this municipality have established their own function as a family violence coordinator, and the hospital's social work is also an important partner. But these functions have their constraint that they usually come in after gross abuse has taken place. Nor do they have an apparatus through their organisations that can properly follow up matters, even less to prevent them from doing so. As far as I know the work done in Oslo and Trondheim, my impression is that Vern for the elderly works according to the same model as in Bærum. The three municipalities work on a model developed in cooperation with the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress. My impression is that there is a very constructive interaction between Vern for the offices of the elderly and this knowledge centre in the development of the service. So we have a well-functioning national advisorship that has a lot of knowledge, and which I assume is available for the rest of the country's municipalities. The municipality's care service can be both preventive and rehabilitating. It is therefore essential for both police and health services that a chain of measures is established in the municipalities, which can lead the way in assisting victims of home-based violence. The main reason for betting on the municipalities is to prevent abuse from developing into so dramatic a situation that matters end up with the police or health services. Then it's really too late. Many have lived for several years with psychological and physical abuses before the abuses become obvious to the environment and to this follow-up device. I ask in my interview about the minister of health and care sharing my concern that there is no defined responsibility in today's law to establish an auxiliary device for assaulting the elderly. Of course, the law related to the exercise of police authorities captures the abuses. But the victims in this type of case are not so easy to report the attackers. They do not turn to the health and care services to ask for help. The victims are afraid of the consequences of the attacker — the son or daughter with major drug problems, the demented spouse, and so on. Often, the victim himself is in a health situation that makes it difficult for him to seek help. Of course, legal responsibility for having an action plan to prevent and follow up violence against the elderly is no guarantee that 15 years of probation, as I pointed out earlier, will be replaced by one or two years of action. In addition, many municipalities around the country will probably also pay attention to the situation of the elderly at risk of violence, without ending up in a Protection for the elderly. However, I believe it would be natural to legislate the responsibility of the municipalities to establish an action apparatus towards this group, just as we do for so many other groups. The interaction with state agencies, such as the police and hospitals, will, for example: serve the purpose of establishing a chain of responsibilities that is known and predictable. The examples we know from the municipalities that have established Vern for the elderly show that it is not very expensive and personnel-intensive services that are needed. This is not about imposing new comprehensive responsibilities on municipalities. It is more about systematising a chain of responsibilities of which the municipalities are already the most important part. In my contact with resource people who have worked to help the elderly who are being abused, I have recorded that it is a clear belief that the responsibility for setting up an action apparatus needs to be strengthened by law. It is difficult to ignore that recommendation when you see how little has happened in all the years it has been focused on and worked on this matter. I hope the Council of State will help to bring forward the work for better protection of the elderly, by following up the case by the Ministry of Health and Welfare and returning to the Stortinget with proposals for concrete measures. It's time to act.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1354	The representative here puts the spotlight on a serious and far-reaching social problem. And it's true, as the representative Sundsbø claims, that most assaults against the elderly happen in the private sphere of people who are close to him. This makes this case extra difficult. I was recently invited to make contributions to the Central Board of Senior Citizens in Oslo. There one of the participants told me that they had contacted everyone over 80 years in their town, and asked if they could come home to talk about security agreements for the elderly. Only 24 pst. would have such a home visit, despite the fact that it was quite obvious that many more really needed it. It turned out later that many would not have such a visit because they were subjected to violence or abuse by a close person. This tells me – in addition to the representative Sundsbø has told us, as we know, and as we read about – that violence and abuse are a major challenge for many actors in society. Probably it's also about big numbers of darkness. The assaults may have many forms. There may be physical abuse, care failure, or it may be, for example: sexual assault. It's usually physical abuse we have in mind. But psychological or economic abuse can also be a very great impact. This could be done, for example, by: be threats posed, or misuse of financial resources and assets. Although assaults against the elderly are expressed in many ways, we know – at least as I see it – too little about the extent per person. today. Firstly, various studies of violence experience tell little about what to understand by violence. Secondly, older people who become victims of violence and abuse are often invisible in statistics of violence in the general population. These are based either on cases reported by police or on interviews in the general population. Clinical experience and studies show that an estimated 4-6 pst. of the older population has been subjected to violence after the age of 70. These are the same numbers as the rest of the population. Although violence against the elderly has received somewhat greater attention in recent years, there is still not enough attention to this problem. There are several reasons for this. The representative was inside in a good way. Violence in close relationships is a taboo theme. When the attacker is a human being standing close, of course, the threshold for asking for help is very high. It can be due to loyalty, emotional bonds, pride, addiction, guilt, or shame. Another reason why violence against the elderly often remains unknown is that older victims of abuse take little contact with the police or other public authorities themselves. This may be because they have trouble orientating and figuring out. Another reason might be a lack of understanding of their own situation, or a desire to protect someone, as the representative was. As you know, many older people have established permanent contacts with the healthcare system and the home service. Nevertheless, there is reason to believe that violence and abuse they have been subjected to does not arise unless the service provider asks direct questions. And that's not sure it's coming out, either. The general provision of social assistance should initially cover all citizens – of course. I recognize that sometimes, for example. in the event of an abuse of the elderly, special measures and arrangements are necessary to ensure that the offer is effective for all. I believe it is important to obtain knowledge and competence from the service provider, while the elderly themselves may need both help and motivation. I also believe that there is a need – and therefore this debate is important – to increase the attention on the theme of the general population. The Government’s action plan ‘Vold in close relations’, valid from 2004 until 2007, has four overall objectives. One is that the cooperation competence and knowledge of the auxiliaries should be strengthened. The second is that violence in close relationships should be made visible and prevented by changes in attitudes. The third is that victims of violence in close relations must be provided with the necessary assistance and protection. The fourth is that it is intended that the spiral of violence should be broken by strengthening the provision of treatment also to the perpetrator. Regional resource centres on violence, traumatic stress and suicide prevention are among the 30 measures proposed in the plan. Centres shall assist the service provider with the development of competence, advice and guidance, including: by family violence. The reception of violence and rape shall also be established, in particular, in relation to inter-municipal medical officers. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health is working on a guide on the reception of people who have been subjected to abuse. This could also help older victims. Protection for the older model, which is based on experience from the Manglerud project in Oslo, and on which the interpellant was involved, has been used in some major municipalities. I believe that this model should be made known and adapted so that it can be used in much more municipalities than is the case today. Information on the phenomenon of violence against the elderly is a fundamental prerequisite for both seeing and recognizing the problem, both in the service sector and in the individual people living with domestic violence. Here, regional resource centres against violence and traumatic stress will have an important function, both in relation to service provision and in relation to general public information. In addition to police assistance and action in relation to victims of violence, municipalities are responsible, through health and social legislation, for preventing and providing the necessary assistance in the event of abuse. I believe that this is entirely due to a strong commitment to guidance and knowledge for the municipalities, so that this happens in practice. Like the interpellant, I see with great concern the great extent of violence and abuse that defenceless elderly people are being subjected to. The problem represents challenges at several levels and involves several actors. In this matter of care, inter alia: in the case of older people coming to the Stortinget in June, violence against the elderly will be one of the topics dealt with, so that the Stortinget will have a hopefully even wider basis for going deep into and thinking about this important topic. I intend to follow it up, so that the situation in the future may be better than it might indicate that it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1392	I thank you for the answer, which I experience was a clear statement that this matter will be followed up. And I share the opinion of the Council of State that the right place is in the care message. It provides an opportunity to go into it more thoroughly and also to come back with more concrete forms of action. I registered that the Council of State said that the municipalities have a responsibility for this already, and that the point of the care notification is then to clarify how this must be followed up in particular in relation to the group we are talking about here. It's left, and that's the picture or the impression that's the strongest in me, that started pretty strongly in 1988, focusing on the problem from the exact same documentation and the same description that we're giving today. Then it's been 18 years since that, 15 years since the Manglerud trial project, and unfortunately we've come too short. I don't think this is a problem that's special to big cities or big municipalities. This is a problem that is completely independent of where you live in the country, whether the municipality is small or large. I am also sure that the police, health services and municipalities are concerned about making assistance available. But too few people have taken part in using the methodology that, after all, has developed and that can produce results in a different way from what we have so far received. I look forward to the care message, and I feel confident that this will be taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1405	I can be brief, because I agree with everything the interpellant now said. I also fully agree that there has not been enough focus on it to ensure that there are good enough measures in each municipality. The challenge ahead will be to put it in place, to make it visible – unfortunately – that this is too big a problem, and to ensure that municipalities take on the responsibilities they already have, in practice. Then I think we need more of the Manglerud model or similar models to get this into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1412	I also thank the interpellant, who addresses an important topic, which I have been concerned about for a long time. I have been following the work with Vern for the senior project in Oslo since it started in the early 1990s, and have visited it. It is an important measure. Besides that, I'd like to problem it a little bit. I want to say that the vast majority of the elderly in Oslo today do not know about the Vern project for the elderly. It's not that it's just the key to this whole problem, it doesn't have such a large scale or is such an intervention in the everyday life of the elderly that there's a lot of people being reassured by. I think it's important to look at the measures here on a broader basis, on how we can use different instruments to achieve the best possible results. I'll mention some of what I think are such instruments. Firstly, we should have extensive training for those who work at home, those who meet the elderly in their everyday lives, so that they dare to ask about this, are obsessive about it and are able to talk about it when they experience that there may be a risk of violence and abuse. The second point I want to mention is that I think the seniors can have a very important function. There's a lot of older people going there. If there were meetings, information, discussion, and there were examples that it was not dangerous to take things up and say from, it would be a rather decisive measure, because the elderly centres – there are some and fifty of them in Oslo – are so popular, and they are sought out by so many. The third thing I want to mention is a security alarm. In some municipalities, such as Oslo, extensive social alarm systems are being developed, which are also an important response in emergency situations, creating security and security to help. Then I come up with more serious things – what concerns close-up police. When the elderly in a social security home in Oslo have experienced a break-in or two, and feel that the police cannot come because there is a simpler break-in, it is talked about in the block a few days, and there is uncertainty there for three to four years afterwards. This also concerns the type of issues involved. If it has been to older people that is not clarified, it sits in – it spreads almost across the country. An active neighbourhood police force, a better close-up police force in relation to burglaries and riots — even in relation to situations occurring among the elderly — is a major challenge. I would also like to mention alcohol problems and preventive work. Unfortunately, many people in that generation have alcohol problems. That is, says the Oslo police at least, the reason for three-quarters of the violence cases on average throughout the population, and then of course also among the elderly. We also have the problem of overmedication. What I want to achieve is that we have to tackle this problem wider than only through the Vern for the elderly, because it will not reach far enough in relation to any of the things I mention now. We have to make people care, be able to say from when they are aware that something is happening in the neighborhood or in the rise, be able to take it up and tell from to home or to others who should get such messages. That's why I believe that we're raising the topic that's being discussed here today, and that I hope the care message will do, so we'll have more opportunities to lift it and use different approaches to attack it. I do not believe in the legalisation of completely specific measures such as the Protection of the Elderly, that such and such should be mandatory in all municipalities. But I believe in a comprehensive campaign along the dimensions I've been talking about and on which the interpellant and also the minister were involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1435	Initially, I will also be allowed to give tribute to the interpellant for a good interpellation, and not least for opening up to make this kind of recordings as this is about to become. But I actually also want to give honor to the Council of State, which already in the evening post on Wednesday 5 April goes out and says that she is in favour of more measures, and also says that violence against the elderly is going to be one of the points in the care message, which comes in June. The Council of State has also said this today, and I appreciate it very much. It shows that the Council of State is taking this inward as the major social problem it actually is. There are a number of measures here that should be considered, and I will not prejudge the debate that will have to come about in the context of the care notification. The Council of State has already invited all the party groups – I have also been present at the Council of State office – and we have begun to discuss some of the things that need to be discussed. In order to make a few recordings, without drawing the debate out in the long run: I think we have to take inwards that in most of these violence episodes is the close family relationship. In a lot of people, it is. That's also what makes you not to report. The outside violence is easier to relate to, because then you have the justice, and you don't have the family constraints. I think we have the biggest challenge there. I would also like to remind you that in its time we made a proposal for outreach home care, which would probably be an important measure in this type of case. Then you get into the elderly. You have a different mission, so you don't get the ratio that you come to check if they've been exposed to one or the other -- that's part of the prevention situation. Furthermore, it is also important that municipalities, when they constantly send new people into the homes of the elderly – new faces are coming in – think that it makes it difficult to build a trust relationship between the elderly and those who come in, so that you can actually start talking together and discover some of the issues that are there. Furthermore, it is important to have that dialogue in order to implement the right measures, so that you feel the security of your own home that you are completely dependent on. Here a number of different measures should be considered. In the case of a social alarm, it is very important that it is always present for those who need it. In the case of violence in close family relationships, one meets the exact same problem. If you do not want to report because the perpetrator is in the family, it will also restrict the use of the social alarm, with exactly the same justification. You're afraid of what kind of questions are related to the triggering of the alarm. I hope that we focus on this, and that there will be a significant part of the care message coming, and look forward to that debate. I would once again like to thank both the Council of State and the interpellant for the signals given here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1452	I also want to pay tribute to the interpellant to put the spotlight on a serious problem, often a hidden problem, which is very serious for the individual. There are many older people who fear abuse from strangers when they leave home. However, it is a serious cross-section of thought that many older people are being assaulted in their own homes — and the attacker is one of their closest. The assaults on the elderly include violence, threats, harassment, and other acts that violate a human being. Verbal ejaculation can be as destructive, exciting and harmful as physical intrusion. Care failure and lack of help are also a violation. Threats and anxiety about what might happen are also felt to be very stressful to the individual. Research shows that assaults against the elderly are often caused by family conflicts and interpersonal crises in the family. Disease and burden of care can be a contributing factor in conflict. In other cases, the main problem is mental and drug abuse. Many elderly people have to deal with mentally ill or debilitated adult children and grandchildren. This shows that it is also important for older people to strengthen the supply of mental health protection and drug treatment in general. Infringement of family members is not a private matter. It is a challenge to reach out with help for older people who are victims of abuse, because they often experience the situation as taboo. In the summer of 2004, the Co-operation Board presented an action plan against violence in close relations, with 30 concrete actions, including those of the Council of State. A number of these measures are aimed at increasing the knowledge of auxiliaries abuse. Furthermore, the plan contains a strategy to make family violence visible and thus prevent it. These measures aim to provide better follow-up to offenders from municipal health and social services. As the interpellant was inside, the Right-steered municipalities of Oslo and Bærum have been pre-municipalities in establishing Vern for the elderly. The service is part of the municipality’s security-providing services and is intended to help older people who are at risk of becoming or being victimised. This offer is free of charge. Together with the elderly, this assistance service can find out how to resolve difficult situations. Protection of the elderly provides advice and guidance, coordinates relief measures and establishes cooperation between help offices. I would strongly encourage other municipalities to establish measures similar to those in Oslo and Bærum to ensure protection for the elderly. Regardless of the design of the offer, it is necessary for the municipal relief service to be equipped to assist the elderly who are victims of abuse. I would encourage the Council of State to contribute to the dissemination of knowledge about the experiences of Oslo and Bærum. However, what the representative of Bohemia had to say is also measures that must be taken into account in this context. Unfortunately, it is a fact that many abuses against the elderly are also carried out within the public utility. It is commonplace for older people to be subjected to uninhibited use of coercion. Typical examples are medication against the patient's wishes and unlawful detention in the form of locked doors. In some cases it may be necessary to provide health care even if the individual opposes it. However, it is essential that such coercive practices are regulated in clear frameworks, so that coercive practices are not carried out arbitrarily and in secret. Experience from the regulatory framework on coerciveness and power towards mentally retarded persons has shown that strict regulation leads to less forced use. An important reason for this is the requirement for voluntary action to be tested first, leading to the professional development of methods representing an alternative to coercion. The co-operation management started work on the development of a regulatory framework to provide better legal certainty for persons who lack consent when providing health services. That was the deadline for consultation on 1 June 2005. I would strongly encourage the Council of State to ensure a rapid follow-up of this work. Such legislation will make an important contribution to reducing abuses against elderly and other patients without consent in public health and care services. In conclusion, I am pleased that the Council of State so clearly signals that the topic we have discussed today will be part of the care message.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1475	I would also like to begin by commending the interpellant, Dagfinn Sundsbø. I think it is very nice that he focuses on such an important and neglected theme, namely violence against the elderly. It's also a difficult topic, because it's so taboo and then filled with shame and the kind of problem we know from other family violence. That is exactly why it is so important that it is debated. The interpellant indicates that studies carried out show that this type of treatment for the elderly is significant. In the same way as other abuses in close relationships, these attacks are also to a small extent caught by the auxiliaries. It's very serious. I believe that it is important both to ensure a public debate with a view to removing the taboos and to ensuring good competence and security in the auxiliary equipment. I believe that we have a lot to learn from the work that has been done, for example. by the crisis centre movement and the incest support centres with regard to their approach to the problem they face. For example, the support centres have had the mantra that incest should be spoken in their heels, not in their heels. After all, the crisis centre movement has seen violence in close relationships and in particular violence against women in a power perspective. There's a lot of the same thing that applies to this field as well, where you have a group of people who are heavily dependent on the help and goodwill of others, and who don't have as much power over their own life and thus stand in a inferior position and are therefore vulnerable to assault from other people. The measure Vern for the elderly has done a very good job in Oslo, Bærum and Trondheim, but at the same time it has revealed a lack of expertise in the social auxiliaries. Voluntary support organisations, e.g. Norwegian People's Aid, Red Cross and the Church's Bymission, have helped to launch important aid projects to prevent and prevent violence against the elderly, and that's good. Most abuses against the elderly occur in the private sector and by those close to them — attacks on the streets and by strangers are very unusual, although this type of violence is the most widespread in the media. We know this from the past also from issues related to family violence. There is a greater risk of abuse by institutions or domestic employees if the staff have received little training, if the staff have little management support, if they have received insufficient guidance, if they have low navigability or low moral standards, if they work in isolation, if the institution has few employees, especially at night, or if the institution uses too many additional guards. In a brochure from the NKVTS, the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress, we can read that in case of falls injuries without reasonable explanation, professionals need to be alert, as abuse may be the cause of the damage. They also say that factors that predispose the elderly to abuse include illness, personality abnormalities, drug abuse in abuse, the physical and mental dependence of the elderly on the caregiver, lack of relief, external stress factors that overload the caregiver, for example. loss of work, own health problems, poor finances, learned violence or poor family relationships. The measures outlined are the examination of interdisciplinary teams, the assessment of temporary establishment, awareness raising of the elderly, communication with the offender, family counselling, the assistance of the patient with alternative morbidities, legal assistance, possibly. the police report and the responsibility for further follow-up. It's also a very good and informative brochure that NKVTS has developed, which we should ensure is distributed as widely as possible. The brochure also says that the telephone number of important help agencies is found in the telephone directory. SV has previously raised the question of whether you should not have a separate national green number for this type of enquiry. The Soria Moria Declaration also states that ‘the government will ensure better coordination of the auxiliary equipment so that people affected by serious crime can obtain the assistance they need’. It also states that ‘we will strengthen efforts to combat family violence’ and that ‘knowledge of violence and abuse must become part of the curriculum of relevant occupational groups’. There are a lot of challenges we're facing, and I have a lot of faith that it's going to be properly addressed. And then we have to remember that the biggest obstacle to getting help is often that we're afraid of others' reactions. That's why it's important to get rid of the taboos.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1492	Thanks to the interpellant. Violence in close relationships is a serious problem, which means that many live their lives exposed to abuse and unworthy treatment. We know that 25 000 older people are being assaulted, either mentally, physically, economically or structurally. It is interesting and great that we have this debate in Stortinget today, because this problem has to be taken seriously. Violence against older people in close relationships is most often, as many people have been in it, in secret, and there is often a dependency between the elderly and the adulterer. Older people, of course, are a complex group, but many of the victims are completely unable to tell others about this, because they may be more bound to the home, or for other reasons. Another side that makes it difficult for the older person to say about assault is the relationship with the attacker. It is usually a close family member like the son, daughter, or spouse who is responsible for the assault, and the violent person feels shame over telling us about this. The Bondevik Government presented the Action Plan on Violence in Close Relations, 2004–2007. The Councils of State have inter alia: referred to this, and I allow myself to be relatively proud of the work that the previous government did in the violence sector. Although that action plan focuses in particular on violence against women and children, many of the measures are general, not least in terms of strengthening cooperation competence and knowledge of the auxiliaries, prevention by raising awareness, necessary assistance and protection of the victim, and also the provision of treatment to the perpetrators. The Minister of Health and Health is encouraged to follow up these measures, including in the context of measures to protect the elderly from violence in close relations. As I experienced the council, she was also fully inside it, and was actually in the process of following up. Knowledge of the auxiliaries is very important to capture older victims of violence, to learn to detect signals, and to know how to deal with suspicions of violence against the elderly, and I think there is a great deal of uncertainty in the auxiliaries today about ways to do this. For the Christian People's Party, prevention is an important principle, and the focus of health and care policy needs to be focused more on prevention. In our initiative for a new older reform, there is a need to focus more on prevention care for the elderly. We propose, among other things: that elderly centres should be assessed by law. Elder centres are an important social factor in the lives of many older people, and violence against the elderly can be prevented, among other things. by providing care centres with access to outreach activities, as we can actually see that they do a number of places. In this way, elderly people who do not dare, or who do not have the opportunity to contact themselves, may be caught up in their own homes. It is also as we have heard today, other measures, such as: Protection for the elderly. But what is important, as the interpellant says, and which I fully agree with, is that it is necessary to have a system that can prevent and capture abuses of the elderly – a clear responsibility position. I ask the State Council to assess whether the elderly centres may be where such a responsibility can be placed — and this can be carried out in many ways. I finally had a question, but the Council of State has already answered that, namely whether this could be followed up in a good way through the work that is now going on in the older sector. It has been confirmed by the Council of State, and thanks to the Council of State for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1512	Norway is one of the world's best countries to live in. There's something that we in different contexts remind each other of from this pulpit. Today's debate shows that it does not apply in all areas. It's thought-provoking, but absolutely necessary to put the search light in the hands of the elderly in our society. When perhaps 25,000 older people in Norway are subjected to assault, and when most of these abuses occur in close relationships, there is reason to ask questions about how respect for the elderly is actually conveyed in our culture. It is good that the Storting should take time for its own debate on this issue, and it is also good that this debate precedes the preparation of a big message. The debate will give valuable input to a government council that itself is clearly busy with the theme chosen against the elderly. I think it's important to know the good projects and actions that already exist. Who really knows what the National Centre for the Knowledge of Violence and Traumatic Stress is doing? How many in the municipalities, whether they are on the elected side or they work before the auxiliaries, know about the protection of the elderly and the valuable work being done? In these Internet times, it may not cost much to make the experience of these activities known to all municipalities. It is important to work for a low doorstep, a listening ear, a person who has time to be aware of the election. It is important to work for good local meeting places, for varied assistance, for home help and home care that has time and competence when needed. It is necessary to listen to the experience that both child protection and crisis centres can provide, not least in relation to warnings from others in the community, except the world itself. I also think it is underestimated to see what happens to those who are involved in drug abuse, in unemployment, in dementia and in other diseases – that one then not only focuses on this direct debt, but also on what reactions can affect the rest of the family and the community. The interpellant asked questions as to whether the law is good enough. It's good that it's being evaluated. It is also important at any time, including in this area, to have a searchlight on the resources available to municipalities and the resources available to voluntary organisations, both for direct help provision and for staggering work. In all terms, it's enough to make it even more stressful to have antennas to register and to have knowledge to know what to do to follow up. In the Storing Service 2000 there was special attention on the weight of dementia. It wasn't so exciting here in the house, it didn't get much follow-up here, but I've registered with pleasure that message has been used in many educational institutions. In fact, the same thing can happen now with the big message that is under work, if the election against the elderly is dedicated to a separate chapter. It can actually have ringing effects far beyond the Stortinget itself and the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1529	The theme that the interpellant addresses is very important, but of course it is not new. In the previous government period, the Minister of Justice of the Left put the search light on this with close links and delivered the action plan that has been mentioned. This with close relationships is perhaps the most problematic. It happens in the hidden, it happens inside the walls. This means that many people live their lives under abuse and unworthy treatment. What I think is the most important thing about this debate – which I am very pleased that the interpellant has been seen doing here – is that we get openness on this. I think maybe the most important thing is that one in society or the media writes about this, that we dare to talk about it, and that we take it seriously. When power is exercised in close relationships, the consequences become much more extensive and profound than the visible damage caused by the power action itself. The elections are, as we understand, often practiced in secret, and the people that it is in force are very important to each other, through common history, etc., and they depend on each other. Those who are exposed to power often reproach themselves, and experience shame and guilt. I think, as I said, the essential thing is that we talk about it. I think it was very important that we got this debate in front of the message to come. It is expected that there will be even more focus and even more debate. It was interesting to hear – I just have to say that I didn't know anything about it, I think it's very unknown – about Vern for the elderly in Oslo, Bærum and Trondheim. It is not well known around the small municipalities. These ideas must be taken into account by someone in a way. I hope that the Council of State can help to provide more information on such positive actions that take place in some places, so that one does not need to invent the powder around. All municipalities, large and small, probably have the same problems, although of course the scale is different. Increasing the focus on selected older people, to which this interpellation debate has contributed, will in any case be positive, given that we have discussed a taboo area. We as sitting in this room, dare to discuss it, as said, we're making the media have the courage to discuss it, and we don't get the least family to do it. It's probably on that arena it's all, most important to support, so they dare to take it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1545	I would also like to thank the interpellant for putting a very important matter on the agenda. This case is the broad political consensus about, and very many of the same things are repeated – very important things. You might wonder why the matter has not been raised in the past. This is nothing new. But it's a growing problem. It is a growing problem that some of the adult population have problems with drugs, economic problems and psychiatry. We get more and more elderly people living alone, high in age, who often have a slightly better economy than they had before, and who are exposed to gross violence from their children. It's very bad. It is quite natural that parents, out of love and loyalty, but unfortunately also because of shame and fear, will not report when serious abuses occur. You don't stop being happy with your children because if the children treat you badly, in the same way that children don't stop being happy with parents who practice violence. Many older people are subjected to both mental and physical violence, and when physical violence is perpetrated, there is an equal amount of mental pain. Being treated badly by their neighbors, hurts. Many of the measures mentioned are difficult to implement, precisely because you do not want to be notified and will not admit how you feel. Many people want this to be discovered. So I think it's important to get more nursing homes. The nursing homes were once thought to be a place to move to when you needed to. Today, only the most nurturing people get such an offer. Being able to live in a safe place, where you know there's some wall in the wall, where maybe there's a fixed crew that goes a little bit with someone going out and in, so you don't have to say something or report from, maybe it's necessary for many in the future. You may also need help to move to another place, help from the municipality, assistance for sale, or for the purchase of a more secure dwelling. What I think about visiting services can be very important, that you are visited without asking for it, and what has been done in these trials, I think are great actions, which should be implemented in all municipalities. More and more people also develop dementia and live with it for many years, and many also live at home. It was a two-three-week program on TV that showed a lady with dementia who was exposed to a man, it wasn't a family member, but he obviously wanted to be, and wanted to take part in her fortune. It was there mentioned a NOW. What had been investigated, but not addressed, was related to the role and competence of the opposite sex. I would like it to be re-examined, so that you could increase both the competence and the composition of the superior imagery, so that they could secure the elderly and those who can't take care of themselves in any other way, better than what is being done today. I would therefore just like to thank you for the fact that this matter has been raised, and hope that we can have this with us further in dealing with the various issues, so that older people can get a better and safer everyday life – both to their own family and to society else.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1562	We have had a debate that shows that this is a matter on which the Storting is unequivocally, unanimously concerned. Everyone has expressed joy at the fact that violence against the elderly will be followed up in the care message, so that you can get closer to the action chain, more specifically what kind of follow-up these matters should have, all the time we all recognize that there are grey zones, but perhaps first and foremost too little knowledge of what is really happening out there. It's not so strange that it's like this, because I understand from those who are dealing with these things, that the people we're talking about now, and that we all want to meet with help, are not the ones who are primarily users of the elderly centres. It is not those who are primarily against users, nor are they sub-users of care services, of healthcare. Too many people sit at home and don't dare to go out with their problems, and they protect themselves from both communities, friends and others, because they don't know how to deal with their situation. I guess that's why I feel that Vern for the elderly has been a tool that has helped to open this up in a way, through relatively simple tools. Having a fixed point, a place, a telephone, a reporting service and a skill in the back that can set up and spend some time going into the underlying causes of problems that may be difficult to get into, is what I see as the methodology, and that makes the three municipalities that have protection for the elderly use it. Then I don't mean that we are going to legislate that all municipalities are going to have Vern for an old-age office. That's not how it could be. That's not the point. But what we probably have to expect is that all the municipalities should have a chain of responsibility, a fixed point that captures this kind of thing, and that helps to be the thread that connects the cross-sectoral systems, so that people can be helped. However, it is not just those at risk of violence who need help, often the measures will also have to be directed against the perpetrators, because often they simply need to be part of the action chain put in place to give the victim a more satisfactory life. I thank you for the debate and look forward to the notification of care.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1573	I think there have been very many good suggestions and contributions, which I take with me in the final question on the matter that comes to the Stortinget in June. Several have mentioned that one must try to look at the measures at the widest possible angle. It's not just one thing, but there are many measures, and it might be a little different in some municipalities as well. Then I find reason to stress also the representative Sundsbø was at the very end, because one thing is to have action against those who are already in the auxiliary equipment – and here it is important, as in particular. The representative of Bohemia was concerned that we are providing even more training, so that it is easier to ask about that kind of thing, help to see signals, etc. – but it is also very important, as the representative Sundsbø had in mind, to reach those we do not reach through the device. These include: is shown by the Manglerud and the Baltic Sea city parts of this city, is that very many elderly people who are not part of the auxiliaries, to say the like, will not have visits, because they hide something, they dare not show that they are turned, etc. It's a huge challenge how we're also going to manage to reach those that we can't get through the auxiliaries. But I think it's come out very much useful here. I have faith in the outreach business in the broad sense that several people have been involved in. It is also important, I think, for which this debate is a very good contribution, to get more debate on the topic, so that more people will be aware of the problem. And I'd like to contribute to spreading the good examples around the country, because I think it's quite right that more people have pointed out, that many don't know what's happening here, or is happening there, and it's important to gather it, so that more people can learn from each other. So I'm, without going into all the details, because there were a lot of good notions, a thoughtful follower of seniors. They think I can also be used here to some extent, or other activities in addition to the country where there are no own elderly centres – in hospitals or where it is now. Finally, I would just like to say that the dementia problem will also be part of the issue that comes in June, a problem which is partly related to this, but which in itself is also an unusually important challenge, as we do not have good enough treatment and also not good enough offers to diagnose, and it is a huge increase every year in the number of dents that we do not have a good enough offer to offer. So thank you also from my side to the interpellant, and for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1588	The debate on substance is closed. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1602	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1611	Travel life is a major industry in Norway. It is therefore commendable that the proposers have taken the initiative to put this on the political agenda. The travel life creates values for about 60 billion dollars and the employment on the other side of 140,000 people. These jobs are created throughout the country and are an important district industry. In addition, many women are also employed in this industry. There is a high potential to strengthen the international marketing of Norway as a travel-life destination. I would like to remind you that in 2006, it was decided to increase the funding for profiling abroad by a total of 72.5 million. kr, so that the total sum for international marketing in 2006 is 172,5 million. kr. Travel represents major challenges and opportunities. Today’s tourist is an experienced traveler who makes great demands both for experiences and for activity. My claim is that Norway as a destination can offer tourists both content, experiences and self-activities. I'm glad that the Government is so clear on the travel life campaign through the Soria Moria Declaration. The declaration makes provision for an offensive travel policy, and I am pleased to note that the industry itself is satisfied with the efforts it is now being made. The development of a national travel strategy and the strengthening of international marketing are important keywords in this way. Equally, it is important to ensure quality and to assess the introduction of a voluntary certification scheme for companies wishing to market themselves as part of the Norwegian brand. The measures are ambitious, and the close dialogue with the travel industry is decisive to achieve these objectives. It is important to bear in mind that the effort must not only be made against the rest of the world, because it is simply about 80 pst. of the guest house days in Norwegian hotels and overnight accommodations there are the Nordics behind. It is a quality stamp that many Norwegians choose to leave in their own country. Our task is to develop and pursue a travel policy that enables the industry to meet the challenges and opportunities of growth in travel. The government's aim is to facilitate the highest possible value creation in the Norwegian economy by creating jobs and creating growth businesses. In the next round, it will generate growth in the whole country within the areas where we have a special advantage. Travel life is one of these advantages. As case spokesman, I added a broad cooperation with the opposition in this matter. For some reason it was not a successful initiative. The government will, as I said earlier, develop a national travel strategy. That is why I would recommend Document No. The 8 proposal is annexed to the Protocol – this is because the Government has not yet decided whether to present a case in the form of a separate Storing Message or a separate proposition that takes into account an Action Plan/Strategy Plan for Travel. For me, it's a little strange that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left already now determine that they want a new big message rather than join our proposal. Let me also add that the Council of State, by letter to the Committee, indicates that the extensive work carried out in the department of these days will allow the Stortinget to discuss later. I note that the opposition wants the government party to cooperate widely with the opposition in important political matters. When I then added up to it, through the committee work, there was no interest anyway. I take note of that. It is, as I said, an extensive work going on in the department. Two days ago the Ministry invited to consult on these issues. For me, it was gratifying to record that the industry was fully satisfied with the thinking put forward by the Government and the Council of State in these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1639	The scheduled time for the morning meeting will soon be over. The President will propose that the meeting continue until the current map has been completed. The President then relies on the fact that we can finish by noon. 15.30, also with the voting. It's an open hearing at 4 p.m. 15.30, and we have to be done until then. If that's not possible, we need to have an evening meeting. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1644	I'm aiming that this won't be a long debate – even if you might have had it, because there's a good deal of big business representatives who have airline tickets with SAS Braathens, and then there's probably a reason to be here on Stortinget. I can join most of the case rapporteurs said about the description of the importance of travel life in Norway, and especially perhaps in District Norway. However, what I do not know about is the description of the rapporteur of the case gives of the work that has been done in the committee. There has been a great deal of consensus, but where one has disagreed and where one has been uncertain, is how the Government intends to involve the Storing in this matter. This is probably also why the minority has a proposal, and it has also been necessary to send various letters and questions to the Government to clarify it. Moreover, I would just like to add that, for the Progress Party, the tourism industry is very important, and we have a good tradition of promoting, in budgetary terms, proposals to increase the marketing abroad of Norway as a tourist destination. We proposed $300 million. kr for the year's budget, and we're probably going to follow that trail further and propose to grant more money. Good marketing of Norway abroad is important to attract tourists, whether they come to the country with SAS Braathens or by other means. The rapporteur explained the work of the Government, and it is good and good to work towards a national travel strategy. But I'm amazed that you can't have more progress in the government in providing a big message, and that you have to wait about until spring 2007 to get this message. The Bondevik II government had come very far in that work. It had worked out an action plan for the tourism industry, so most of the work would be in place. Travel organisations also have a high level of competence and know where they want to travel. So you have to wait until 2007 to get this as a matter for Stortinget, I think it's amazing. I assume that this comes as a matter for Stortinget, and I also expect the Council of State to confirm in its statement, for he has partly confirmed this in some of the letters that have come to the committee. It is important for us to get this as a matter in the Storting because it has a broad commitment across the country. It includes different departments, it affects many government councils, and then I also think it is important for the Storting to take part in that work. Stoltenberg just said in his declaration of accession that it would be a good cooperation with Stortinget, and we challenge the Stoltenberg government on that very matter. I don't remember taking up the minority proposal, but at least I'm doing it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1661	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1664	I want to join the case manager's description of the value of travel life, and I want to add two things. The only thing is that this industry is one of the most competitive in the country, and the second is that it is an industry that is important not only for the districts, but equally for the larger cities and the larger towns. The previous government put special emphasis on three areas. The one gilded competitive power and the general industrial policy, making Norwegian competitive business competitive vis-à-vis the rest of the world. We put great emphasis on that policy. The second thing we did was put forward an action plan, which was also mentioned earlier, already in the summer of 2005. The third was a proposal for a sharp increase, over 70 pst., in the pathways for the profiling of travel life. Luckily, the new government didn't cut the last part, they did the same thing. So we had several numbers in Stortinget for the bet, and we are very happy about that. But when it comes to general business policy, I'm a little bit more in doubt. And when it comes to the action plan, I thought it was very doubtful that the new government would need maybe two years – two years! – in addition to the time the previous government planned to use to come up with a case for Stortinget. It is not even said that this should be in the form of a message. What we need is to see some of these things in context. We need to analyse the trends we see in the world and in Norway, we need to acquire expertise and knowledge. We need to be able to learn how to interpret those signals and turn them into operational interventions, that is, into concrete actions. We need a stronger profiling. We also need closer cooperation between many important actors in the industry. I thought it was a big deal that these four pillars are the central pillars. Around this is one must spin a future case against the Storting, and I found it quite unlikely that one would need two years to present this matter. When the opposition is standing here trying to get this faster, it's simply because things happen fast in this business. We don't have time to wait as long as the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs now suggest. Right fully supports the proposal launched by the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1679	The Christian People's Party is pleased that travel life is now receiving increased political attention, and that there is a broad political will to receive a treatment here in the Storting of a coordinated and targeted strategy for Norwegian travel industry. At global level, tourism will grow in the years ahead. We can expect a doubling in the number of travellers worldwide until 2020. The challenge ahead is to get part of this traffic to Norway. The travel industry today has barely 7 pst. of employment and more than 3 pst. GDP in this country. It is important not least for rural employment. It should also be possible to grow. We see new trends in the pattern of travel life, not least internationally, which make it relevant to think in several directions also nationally. Among other things, many today would prefer to travel ‘alternatively’ by emphasising values and content other than traditional tourism. Also the Nordics today use less and less of their income for living. They can spend more and more on other things, like traveling, seeing, enjoying and experiencing. People's changed life patterns also open up new perspectives for authorities and actors to facilitate value creation. Norway has many qualities as a travel destination, especially related to nature, landscapes, history, environment, culture, cultural memories, religion and folklore — to only ram some values. If we are to succeed in designing strategies, the tourism industry needs to be taken seriously, and we need to develop a national strategy that includes profiling, innovation, competence and cooperation. The cooperation administration, with Minister of Industry Børge Brende, presented an action plan for the tourism industry in July 2005. This has just increased efforts in profiling Norway as a travel target, increased competence and more innovation and cooperation. The Christian People's Party believes that this action plan provides a good basis for making a comprehensive travel life message that can be addressed by the Stortinget. We have noticed in this regard that the Government is working on such a strategy, and we believe that the Storting must also take a decision on this. I hope the Council of State can confirm that the Government will build on the analysis and actions of the July 2005 action plan, as requested by the industry. On Monday this week, Innovation Norway presented its new brand strategy for Norway as a travel destination. Here they point out that tourists will have genuine experiences rather than mass-produced activities. Instead of seeing as much as possible, tourists want to experience Norwegian nature, food, culture and lifestyle and not least to have more contact with the local population. This is an exciting description, challenging the travel industry to make good offers. On the part of the country, we must contribute to international marketing and facilitate the development of new offers of good quality, increased competence and cooperation in industry. This requires political attention. A travel message may help to anchor this effort across ministerial borders and responsibilities. I will conclude with this: the Christian People's Party will conclude that the Stortinget today decides to ask the Government to promote a big deal about the Norwegian tourism industry. I fully agree with what has been said, that this must be done faster than the two years that have been suggested – it should come as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1700	The travel market is changing both in Norway and internationally, especially with regard to service requirements. This is a challenge, but it also gives us the opportunity to take advantage of the diverse resource base we have around the country. One of the features we see is that the journeys are becoming more frequent and of shorter duration, and it imposes a different requirement on the whole year's product and infrastructure. We have, as several have pointed out, good conditions for raising Norwegian travel industry to international levels. Like many others here, the Central Party believes that tourism should be a national bet area. In fact, Norway is little known outside the world, at the same time we have what Europe and other parts of the world are asking for. Among other things, we have nature, mysticism, experiences, tranquillity and tranquillity, space enough, good environment, clean water and falls. However, what is important to obtain is that scattered settlements and cultural landscapes are a prerequisite for developing the future tourism industry in Norway. We want a targeted international marketing to put Norway on the international travel map, and we want to use and develop the qualities I have mentioned here in the article, better. We in the Centre Party believe it is important to focus on increasing diversity, increasing knowledge content and using local resources as a starting point for efforts. It is also a challenge to develop sustainable agriculture, where farmers and cultural workers, together with the tourism industry, are found in the development of new quality products. In many parts of the country, there are major challenges in maintaining and nurturing the cultural landscape. There is therefore a need for new ways of making animal husbandry profitable, so that food production and living cultural landscapes remain a priority for Norwegian travel. We also see culture as an important field of regional development and international branding. Norway is spending too little money on targeted marketing and profiling over time in relation to many other countries. I am therefore very pleased that in the 2006 state budget it was set at 70 million. kr extra for the profiling of Norwegian tourism abroad in relation to the 2005 balanced budget. We expect the extensive work that is now being done in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and in other departments, and that we are very pleased with, among other things. results in a further increase in the marketing budget, in cooperation with private actors, in order to ensure the growth of the tourism industry in the international market.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1715	I appreciate this opportunity to put travel life on the agenda. The Progress Party is quite right that Norway, with a thoughtful strategy and commitment, can develop a large and viable tourist industry. That is why I am pleased that the Government and government parties have already taken up this matter and determined that a national travel strategy is to be developed that is built in the vicinity of nature and Norwegian culture, and that takes care of the green tourism and tourism industry as a district industry. I want to remind the Progress Party that the change of government was also a political change, and that sitting in government is something more than administration. I hope the Progress Party also understands that we will design our own policies. For SV, it is important to stress that we are going to develop a green travel life that uses nature on nature's premises. Such a plan must aim to make Norway the world’s best tourist destination — with a green perspective — and create jobs throughout the country. Here we can imagine using all of nature: from beautiful waterfalls and watercourses, our unique coastal landscape, nature forests, glaciers and national park centres to predatory wildlife centers. I would like to remind you that SV already spent 180 million on its 2005 state budget. kr for such a green travel effort. So this is an action that we have history on, and such a commitment as the Government has now announced, is something we are cheering on. In 2005, National Geographic Norwegian fjords were named the world's best destination. I believe that not only the fjords, but the whole country has enormous potential if we are able to connect tourism and environmental protection correctly. A national initiative on green travel will not least create many jobs in the districts, and will provide opportunities for women in particular. SV will work to ensure that the green travel effort includes the following five points: Firstly, we want a green travel project in Innovation Norway. Norway can develop a large and viable tourist industry that uses nature on nature’s premises. The challenge is to combine sustainable tourism and industrial development in protected areas. SV wants, among others: to introduce a national authorisation system for ecotourism establishments. Secondly, we want to strengthen cultural memory protection, because we have a lot of cultural memories of unique value. Many of them stand and fall due. It is important to preserve both UNESCO's world heritage, church buildings, pathways and other cultural memories, including as a resource for travel. Thirdly, we want to facilitate increased outdoor life. Increased tourism needs to be based on the organisation of nature for sustainable use, experiences and activities. Fourth, we could imagine increasing the subsidy for fishing purposes. The tourist fishing is assumed to be approximately: EUR 3 billion in 2005, according to the National Association of Travel Activities. Facilitation of river, fjord and water fishing provides good income and can also benefit the local population. Fifthly, we want to strengthen the operation of national parks. Experience from other countries, such as the United States, shows how national parks can become economic engines. Active protection provides local value creation and new jobs. 16 of 23 national parks are missing from the management plan. It is necessary to actively inform about the opportunities offered by parks and their natural and cultural values. These are five elements that I think belong to a national travel strategy, and that can help to develop a green travel life that uses nature on nature's premises. I think that such a strategy can make Norway the world's best tourist destination, with a green perspective, and create jobs across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1741	Travel life is an important part of Norwegian business. In Norway, the tourism industry accounts for 3.4 pst. of gross domestic product and barely 7 pst. of employment. The value added is approximately DKK 60 billion, and employment accounts for approximately 125 000 ordinary year works. The tourism industry is important for employment in districts. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the Government will develop a national travel strategy that will take care of the green tourism and tourism industries as a district industry. The government will strengthen the international marketing of Norway as a travel destination and ensure the quality of travel life products. We will also introduce a voluntary certification scheme for travel businesses and a dedicated training programme that will follow up the strategic travel life initiative. Measures that follow up the declaration have already been implemented. International marketing increased by 72.5 million. kr in the year’s budget. Innovation Norway has developed a strategy for its work on the tourism industry and launched on 3 April a revised strategy for branding Norway as a tourist destination abroad. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has started work on the investigation of a certification scheme. I have also started working on a national strategy for the tourism industry. Travel life is a growing area in an international context. We have to exploit this potential. We should have the ambition to have a growth in international travel to Norway that is at least at the level of growth in travel life traffic internationally. At the same time, we shall contribute to the profitability and value creation of the tourism industry as the basis for this growth. I am concerned about having a broad process in the work on a national travel strategy. I have therefore carried out a consultation to include stakeholders in this process. The invitation went to business and labour organisations, to parts of the political environment and to departments responsible for areas of importance for the tourism industry. I want to set up a contact committee for the travel industry. The Ministry is also co-organising a national conference on tomorrow's travels later this month. I also receive a number of suggestions and views directly to the ministry from organisations, municipalities and individuals. Travel concerns areas of competence that are under different departments. I therefore put up for broad cooperation on the authority side. The strategy will focus on opportunities and challenges for Norwegian tourism industries and promote proposals for action. I am prepared to come back to Stortinget with the central strategies of the Government in this area – the form I still have to assess. Regardless of this, I am prepared to help put the necessary measures into practice as soon as they are ready for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1761	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1764	In this case, we have experienced a rather remarkable form of work on the part of the Government. While Stortinget had this Document No. The 8th proposal for consideration called upon the Council of State to consult the Economic and Social Committee on tourism policy. It's a very unusual form. The usual thing is that the Government presents its plans to the Stortinget and that there is a debate in the Stortinget on the subject. Is this a type of form of work that the Council of State wants in the matters he has at work? In addition, I would like to ask the Council of State when he plans to promote a travel life message/travel strategy for the Storting. It was not provided by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1771	As I said in the post, I have the ambition to have a broad approach to how to develop the travel life strategy. That is why it was a broad invitation that went to this consultation, where the business and employment organisations were well represented and made it quite clear that this way of working they wanted us to continue. There were actually some people who said that this was a new way of dealing with the department, which they really appreciated. I understand that the opposition in Stortinget is hungry to deal with this kind of issue. I can easily show that the time of the former State Council of Brende, for 2005, did not bring one case to Stortinget. This government is doing a good job of promoting things. We have promoted matters and will continue to promote matters of great importance to business. I attach great importance to this, but it is going to happen in close dialogue with the business community, so that I am sure that the measures I am proposing are quality assured by those affected by them.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1778	The representative, Vaggen Malvik, just said that we have to be aware that there was a political change that happened, and that this would take some time to present what is to be submitted to the Stortinget on travel life. I would like the Council of State to deepen it a little bit: what is it in the action plan that was almost entirely ready to be presented, which needs to be reworked significantly before he can submit to the Stortinget? Were there serious errors and shortcomings in the plan developed by the previous government, as the Council of State sees it?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1785	The action plan on which the last Minister for Industry drew up is a far too daunting basis for building a full growth message. Most of the proposals for action in the action plan clearly conclude on the follow-up, and there are short-term measures, where implementation has been added to the instrument, in the first row of Innovation Norway. What is important for my work in this matter is that we link the possible measures close to the ambitions of business, because business wants this close dialogue with the ministry on how to meet the challenges of industry – also because we see a huge international growth and opportunities for Norwegian business to participate in that growth. Therefore, it is important to have business involved in the work currently underway.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1792	Several have not asked for the word for a line. No more have asked for the word on case 7. [[Footing, see page 1892]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1800	The increase shall now be added to the case No. One, two, three, seven.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1893	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Gunvald Ludvigsen on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 2 and 3, by Jan-Henrik Fredriksen on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, we are voting on the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e1928	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e2056	In Case No: 4, 5 and 6 do not have a voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-06.ana.ud2179e2064	During the debate, Øyvind Korsberg has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a report on a coordinated and targeted strategy for the Norwegian tourism industry.’
