ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-10.ana.ud608e28	The President will take this opportunity, when this is the first meeting in 2006, to wish all the representatives and all the others who have their daily work in the Grand Duchy a really good new year, and will be allowed to express the wish that the Grand Duchy will continue to carry out its work with the style and dignity of the national assembly of a country. The representatives Ivar Skulstad and Marianne Marthinsen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Britt Hildeng as from 10 January and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Khalid Mahmood, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-10.ana.ud608e56	Khalid Mahmood is present and will take his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-10.ana.ud608e74	As referred to in the interpellation, the Stortinget adopted a female health strategy in 2003. On the part of the Workers' Party, we are very concerned about how society affects women's health, and how priority is given to research and education and labour. The research shows that many women with so-called indefinite health disorders experience being met with scepticism. We also know that you are often treated as if you were a man, because medical research is done on men. As can be seen from the interpellation, recent data have shown that women receive e.g.: worse heart medicine than men, even if they have the same diagnosis. We want to get the answer from the Minister of Health that there is going to be a women's health strategy. That's why I've asked the Council of State to do it. I have registered, of course, that we have finally received a female health minister, whom I hope will give priority to women's health as a separate field of activity – it is also reflected in the government's stated objectives of Soria Moria – because we need to increase knowledge about, and not least the understanding of, the causes and treatment needs of a number of diseases and plagues affecting women. Mortality cancer is an important area. I hope that the Council of State in its answer will say something about this area, because it affects so many. It is known, among others. through the media that much is happening on the research page with e.g. simple methods, such as vaccination. I hope that the Council of State in its answer will say something about it, and about how the Ministry will invest in this area. In the case of breast cancer, I hope it will end at the time when breast cancer operations are left-handed surgery. We've seen many cases of that up over the years. More places in the country include: at the Telemark Hospital, good breast cancer surgery techniques have been developed. Most people would like to have breast-suppressed surgery if the cancer affects, but if the breast has to be removed, it is important that the physical plagues become at least possible in retrospect. The vast majority of those who get breast cancer actually survive, and have to have as good a normal life as possible even in retrospect. I hope that the Council of State has a good handle on health companies also in terms of women's health. We know that there are many mental disorders also among women. We know that there are many drug users among women. We know that women drink more than they used to. We know that many women at all have chronic disorders and a great need for both rehabilitation and rehabilitation. Many are struggling with mental distress, and many are struggling with drug problems. I would be very happy to receive an answer from the Council of State that is heading towards strengthening research in several fields in the field of women's health in particular. We know, of course, that we talked a lot about in the female health document referred to in the interpellation, that one of the most common causes of sickness and disability in women is muscle and skeletal disorders. We want to know more about the reasons for this. I'm very excited to hear the Council's response to my interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-10.ana.ud608e93	The representative Olsen addresses a very important issue on which this government is also very concerned. Of course, it is not acceptable if it is the case that women and men receive different treatment for both drugs and clean treatment for the same type of illness. If it is demonstrated through scientific studies that these basic values for treatment are not being complied with, it is clear that it will be followed up. This is already specified in the order document of the regional health establishments for the current year, as it has also been a few years earlier. The background to a women’s health strategy was and is a desire to have a better and more comprehensive basis for policy-making in this area. There is a lack of gender-specific knowledge in medical treatment regarding prevention and a lack of gender perspective in the design of health services. I think that's serious. The government will give priority to women's health as a separate field of activity. The Government's Declaration of Accession places great emphasis on gender equality, and we also say quite specifically that we will launch a nationwide research programme on women's health. Of course, I'm going to follow up on this. So what are we going to do? Firstly, we have to be good at using the gender perspective in our daily activities where appropriate. It will benefit both women and men. Secondly, we need to focus on diseases and disorders that affect women exclusively or to a large extent. We need to do this in terms of prevention, diagnosis and treatment of diseases, and in terms of rehabilitation. We also need to bring this with us in terms of the whole development of our healthcare, in the development of knowledge and in research. It is essential that everyone is treated well if they become ill. I am also concerned with measures that can help many to limit the risk of getting serious diseases, and therefore strategies to prevent disease are also at the heart of my work as Minister of Health and Care. I would also like to inform the Stortinget that I am now working specifically to establish a centre of expertise for female health at the Rikshospitalet. I think it's important to have that, because we have too little competence in this in our country. In the case of an area in which the interpellant was located, cervical cancer, there is the second most common type of cancer among women in Norway. Annually, 300 cases occur. Vaccines against this virus infection are under clinical trials and results from the large clinical trials are now published. They show that the vaccines can prevent infections and that they can reduce the incidence of precursors to cervical cancer. This is new information that I think is very interesting. Therefore, the Institute of Public Health has now started work on assessing which vaccines become available and various questions that need to be answered before a professional recommendation can be made to my department. We also see that the increase in lung cancer and COPD is worrying, especially in women. The diseases are mainly due to smoking, but not just that. In tobacco prevention, the key objective is to prevent these diseases as well. COLS is a relatively unknown disease that affects at least 200,000 people in Norway. In Denmark, it has been reported that the mortality rate at COPD in the younger age groups is higher in women than in men. We must assume that this development will also be seen in Norway, and therefore it will also be very important to have a gender perspective when treating and preventing COPD. We also see that physical activity and healthy diet are important factors in preventing both cancer and diabetes 2. This also applies to women to a large extent. I would also like to inform the European Council that, in the context of the new guidelines on maternity care, there is now a particular effort to obtain a systematic overview of the prevention and treatment of maternity diabetes. This is important for the screening of pregnant women with a special risk of developing the disease. There is now also work to identify links between obesity, gestational diabetes and other complications of pregnancy and childbirth. It's also true that the interpellant pointed out that breast cancer is a big problem for many women. That's 24 pst. of all cancers of women. Governments and regional health companies are very concerned with ensuring good breast cancer treatment. We're aiming at a certain centralisation of the surgery services in the case of breast cancer, in order to provide an even better range of services. We know that early diagnosis and better treatment have led to the survival of more women. 80 pst. of the women who have been diagnosed with this disease, live after five years. In the context of the implementation of the cancer plan, work is now under way to establish new guidelines to ensure high quality of breast cancer treatment. It is implemented as a known national screening programme for both breast cancer and cervical cancer, in order to capture early-stage cases of cancer. We are also working on new guidelines for the prevention and treatment of cardiovascular diseases. Research has shown us that taking into account the difference between women and men in the medical treatment of cardiovascular diseases is important. We saw some studies last year that showed us that there was a difference between what women and men were offered when it came to both treatment and medicine. It shouldn't be like that. There's an increasing number of women who are now suffering from heart disease. They often have symptoms other than men, and it is therefore often more difficult to diagnose correctly. Therefore, it is important that knowledge of this is increased, so that proper diagnosis can be made and one thus received proper treatment and proper medicine. In the last two years, the Ministry has asked regional health businesses to pay attention to the need to develop healthcare from a gender perspective, and that specific challenges related to women’s and men’s health must be met with adequate knowledge and resources. This requirement will be continued for the current year and somewhat reinforced. I expect healthcare companies to now work actively on these issues. The gender perspective shall be well integrated into the activities of hospitals and equivalent treatment is assumed for women and men for the same types of harassment. As the Storting is well known, the rate of input-driven financing for the current year has been reduced from 60 pst. to 40 pst. It has been necessary to draw attention to some of the suffering that I believe has been paid too little attention in recent years. It's about chronic disorders, about psychiatry, and not least about female health. It is very important for the representative Olsen to comment that we are able to ensure equal treatment and good enough research for women and men at all levels of our health care. We come from the government to do what we can to increase the offer, to make it equal for both women and men, to make sure that there is better research, that there is better knowledge, and that there is equal treatment. We have asked regional health companies and the Norwegian Research Councils to include this in their plans. There is also more money given to the Research Council to focus on this in particular. As the representative Olsen now took up muscle and skeletal disorders, I also want to inform the Storting that it is being put up to develop more knowledge about particularly fibromyalgia and neck and back disorders, which we know is an increasing problem for very many women. I am also aware that the treatment of women’s health strategy by the Storting has specifically highlighted the need for more knowledge and improved treatment provision for these groups. In other words, the representative Olsen can be absolutely certain that the government will devote great attention to this topic and follow up the decision of the Grand Duchy in the case of female health.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-10.ana.ud608e135	I am pleased with the answers of the Council of State. I think she was in the vast majority of areas that I had taken up in my post, and well there. What is good is that the Council of State now determines that women's health should be a separate field of activity. This is a good starting point for the further debate on women's health. I very much welcome the centre of expertise at the Rikshospitalet. That, I think, is a very important contribution, focusing on women's health. I also feel that I can count on, according to the Council of State's response, that screening for both breast cancer and cervical cancer should continue. We know that there are many people who hesitate to contact the doctor. A call may be the first important step in getting an overview of your own health. Governments say there may be some cause for centralisation in the treatment of breast cancer. I'm concerned that women who get breast cancer will get the best offer. It's rare you're dying seams if you get breast cancer, so the proximity to the hospital may not be so important. But I want to ask the Council of State to look at the hospitals that have really developed and master these treatments for breast cancer in particular. What's important about this interpellation, I feel, is to put women's health on the political agenda. It might also give women health more status in professional environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-10.ana.ud608e148	Women's health becomes a dedicated field of activity. I can also confirm that we of course intend to continue screening to detect breast cancer and cervical cancer. I also see, as I said, with great interest in possible vaccines for cervical cancer, and await here the professional recommendations. I also want to confirm that the hospitals that are good at treating e.g. breast cancer, of course, should be given the opportunity to continue with it, whether they are in districts or centrally. The point is not to centralize for the sake of centralisation. The point is that everyone, whether they have breast cancer or other diseases, must be sure that the treatment they receive is of the best quality possible. There I think, for someone's sake, that there's something to go on in the case of breast cancer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-10.ana.ud608e155	In this case, the interpellant addresses the issue of whether there is now a woman’s own health strategy and whether it has followed up what the Storting has previously adopted. The Council of State has confirmed, to a large extent in its statement, that this is being worked on, and that this is being looked at in connection with a number of different issues. We also saw it in the budget, where part of it was mentioned. It is important that all citizens of this country feel that their health interests are well cared for, regardless of gender, age, possible disability, etc. This means that in all kinds of cases that could have an impact on people's health, however, we have to take care of the health perspective, including women's health perspective in some contexts, where this crystallizes itself as a major area. However, there is no reason to question whether, in some situations, there has been insufficient focus on health considerations. The Progress Party sees it as a matter of course that every person in this country is equally worth it, and that therefore everyone must have the same rights related to health services and treatment facilities. A woman's own health strategy may in some respects be the way to go, but we should not be so focused on one part of the population that we forget to focus on the rest of the population. Over time, a person has been able to get the impression that different priorities have also been set in the healthcare system, related to whether or not he has had a status disease — as someone has called it — or not. And then we can, among other things, mentioned heart vessels, neurology, high blood pressure, etc. We can't have it like that! It has to be an equality for the population, no matter what suffering you have, and what gender you have. In this respect, it may also be appropriate to point out the lack of commitment to research and treatment in particular. muscle and skeletal disorders, fibromyalgia and some other health disorders. In other words, there is reason to focus on the lack of funding for medical research in general and on typical female diseases in particular. It's unacceptable that someone gets a worse offer, whether it's because of sex, disability or other things. It's not acceptable. The interpellant addresses an important issue in its interpellation. However, it is also important to focus on the health situation of the entire population in the coming years, so that everyone is guaranteed a good and varied offer, regardless of gender, age, disability, etc. Then we also have to make sure that the health care system has the means to provide the services they need to provide. It is important that we provide adequate resources for medical research, so that we are sure that Norway also contributes to the implementation of some forms of treatment. It is also important that we provide quick access to the best medicine. The interpellant addresses an important issue that needs to be followed up. However, the issue must also be able to be transferred to the whole population, so that we ensure the best possible range of services, regardless of age, gender, disability, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-10.ana.ud608e172	It is affordable for the interpellant to follow up the initiative taken by the previous government, and the size of which joined in the previous period. In this way, she puts the spotlight on a general problem, namely that it is easy to establish consensus on good intentions and good intentions in terms of health policy, but it is not as easy to operate and make it work on grassroots. Let me give you an example from your own experience. I worked for a few years on the priority complex of Norwegian health policy, and the first priority study, carried out in 1987, resulted in a national health plan to which the Stortinget joined in 1989, when a unanimous increase agreed that psychiatry would be given priority in the coming period. Ten years later, in the second priority study, we found that the exact opposite had occurred, namely that the increase in the resources of the psychiatry was significantly lower than the increase in the resources of the other parts of the Norwegian healthcare system. So the size had unanimously adopted a goal, and what happened was the exact opposite. It's not because of evil will, but it's because the distance between maps drawn in this house and in the government quarter, and what's happening out in real life, is pretty big. It's not always terrain that wants to adapt to the map, to say it that way. For this reason, it is very important to discuss these issues, to be able to specify the means available – the means available to achieve the priorities the Stortingen wants. There's another point that I think it's important to underline in this context. I understood both the interpellant and the Council of State that they have so far put a parentheses around the medical conditions that are really gender-specific, because they have been treated so consistently, of course. This is why, for example: a specific field of study called gynaecology. But this is not where the problem lies primarily, because there is a professional tradition that is quite good. The problem is, all of the medical conditions are not 100 pst. gender-specific but affecting women and men differently and at different stages of life. There we are faced with a fundamental problem: demographic development is such that in the older part of the population there are far more women than there are men, simply because the average life expectancy for women is significantly higher than the average life span for men. And there's no sign that that difference is about to shrink, rather the opposite. This means that in the oldest patient category in this country, there will always be a dramatic majority of women. This means, of course, that when geriatry is poorly developed, and when research and education, and in all areas, have been significantly weaker in this field than in others, this neglect will also affect women in an unintentional and quite dramatic way. That's why I think it's important here that you not only think in simple and general gender categories, but that you're able to connect them to other variables that have life-long orders. The Norwegian health system may be facing its most important test in the years to come, if it is able to respond properly to the challenge of demography. So finally, a little remark. It was suggested that the gender of the Minister of Health is an important factor in this picture. I will not dispute that, but I would think that the gender distribution in the medical profession is of much greater importance and much greater interest than the gender distribution among health ministers. This is a point where there is reason for reasonable optimism, because for quite many years now there has been a clear majority of women among students at all our medical faculties, and that is at least a point of light.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-10.ana.ud608e189	Several have praised the interpellant for the theme being addressed, and I will do the same. It's an important theme, and it's a theme that contains a variety of perspectives. It may be difficult to touch many of them in five minutes, but I'll get hold of some. I have noticed that Gunn Olsen, both during the interpellation today and also during the health debate in December, came up with a perspective that, in my view, rarely emerges in the staging room, and that is the development of alcoholism as a problem among both men and women. From a woman’s point of view, this also has a dimension that it does not have in men, namely that in pregnancy it will be possible to hit the child to be born through the problem it represents. Inge Wohnung is absolutely right: we see that social developments are changing in society that we have to be concrete about, if action is to be effective. As late as this morning, we heard the news of a debate on the increased circulation of alcohol, higher import quotas for alcohol, and more liberalisation related to this. What we see is a drinking pattern in the population that is becoming more and more liberalized. The consumption of wine in the week, and in part also of beer, is increasing. We know that both from a woman's point of view and from a social point of view, this causes adverse effects that are unfortunate. There are perspectives that are important to keep up with, including when discussing women's diseases, because this is a type of hidden disease that only comes in after many years but that has to do with the development of society. There are many statistics that make it clear that the main reason for apparent differences in health between men and women really has something to do with, of course, like women getting pregnant, but men don't. The current system is that the normal absence of the pregnancy, completely conditional on normal pregnancy follow-up, is also recorded as a medical report. It's probably unreasonable, because you should accept the woman's right to be away from a job she can't do when she's pregnant. But the question is whether it makes sense that it is registered as today, as a sick leave, and that it is not returned as part of the entire leave scheme. It has the consequence, in part, of social exclusion mechanisms, of employers thinking that women are more ill than men, which is not really deleted when corrected for pregnancy as an important factor. Then we see that for many years, women have been severely discriminated against in the workplace as a consequence of diseases they develop in the workplace, through the mechanism given to the occupational injury system, where occupational diseases caused by stress disorders are not accepted as occupational diseases under current regulations, despite their obvious potential. An example that I've drawn up in different contexts is that a man who operates a press airman will obviously be accepted as a professional injury to the changes that happen at small stages of his hands, if he comes to popular peace and applies for professional injury compensation, because there is no explanation mechanism other than that the air drill has given these changes. A woman, on the other hand, who for very many years has worked in a nursing home and worn her back out because of heavy lifting and lack of technical aids, will not be able to readily accept such a scourge as a professional illness, simply because she may have had the pain even after working hours, when she continued her work at home, with all that implies. It is a type of discrimination, a disguised discrimination, with which we should actually do something. It has been quite many years since it was decided in this Chamber that the Government should take a closer look at the scheme. It may be reasonable to go further and study the content of that type of discrimination. It is the type of hidden discrimination, conditional on gender differences, including in the choice of occupation, one has to get on the table and be focused on action against it. I noticed what Harald Tom Nesvik is saying, but what the Progress Party is doing here over and over again is presenting it as if treating people equally is giving a similar result. It doesn't. By treating genders in a similar way, the consequences are a very different healthcare provision, with regard to the consequences of gender diversity. That is why there must be different approaches to genders, precisely in order to achieve justice in the end, not least in terms of women's perspective on disease development.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-10.ana.ud608e206	Women’s health in Norway has a positive sign, and Norwegian women have good conditions for good health. Nevertheless, I have to say that there are few themes that I have worked on, where I have been more surprised by what I have found of knowledge when I have gone deeper than the surface slogans, than this very theme. It is related to the fact that modern medicine is built around the human body and man's anatomy, physiology, disease patterns and diagnostic patterns in many ways. Even research — and much of the medical research is based on animal testing — has been largely carried out on male animals. It says a little bit about how this whole system is built around, and on, men's premises. This must be broken. How demanding it is, shows just the rashes we have in relation to some of the diagnostics that only women get, or that mainly women get. We see that these diagnostics often get less attention, almost systematically and structurally less attention, than other diagnostics. Therefore, it is good that health ministers of different sexes have engaged themselves in this. It was Minister of Health Hernes who put down the Women's Health Committee and who had documented this for the first time in Norway in a broad and proper way. Later health ministers have followed up and presented and adopted a female health strategy here in the house. It joined the Stortinget, followed by measures and appropriations in the 2004, 2005 and 2006 government budgets. I want to say that I am pleased that the Minister of Health we now have is showing the commitment that she has demonstrated in her post here today. I think it is absolutely necessary for a systematic break down of some of the structural obstacles that are in favour of better development in this area and to combat some of the remaining counterclaims. Don't underestimate them. I'd like to mention a couple of issues that were focused on by the Social Committee when we last discussed this matter. It focused on osteoporosis, which is one of our most common and well-known female diseases in Norway. I know that the Social and Health Directorate has worked on an action plan for the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis and osteoporosis, and that a working group with a mandate has been set up to develop professional guidelines for the prevention and treatment of such disease, on the basis of a knowledge summary. I want to ask the Minister of Health and Health to confirm that this is something she will follow up. A large group of women in Norway are affected by this and are committed to improving prevention, treatment and rehabilitation in relation to these disorders. I think it is positive that an initiative is being taken for a centre of expertise for women's health in the Rikshospitalet. I believe that having a combination of such an overall competence while integrating the female health perspective at all levels of research, decision making, investigation and healthcare provision is incredibly important. Governments did not mention women with a minority background. We know that there are major health differences between immigrant populations, between different immigrant groups, between women and men, and between ethnic Norwegian women and women with a minority background. I think it is very important that a focus is on how the service meets these women, how a person works on prevention, not least on nutrition, and how a person works on the side effect of drug use, etc. in relation to that population. Finally, let me commend the interpellant for touching the alcohol issue in this context. We've heard, as the representative Ballo said, a pretty straightforward run-in to solve a problem for the Customs Department on the radio this morning. What is the main problem with alcohol in Norway is not that the Customs Department lacks some resources, we can sort this out with a simple decision here in the house. What is the main problem is that women and children are hit by an excess, increasing alcohol abuse in this country, an increase in consumption by bringing up continental drinking potions as well as traditional Nordics. We drink both often and much; before we just drank a lot. We have good evidence to show that increased availability, lower taxes and increased quotas increase health problems and increase the incidence of violence and abuse against women, and therefore there is every reason to warn against a drop in alcohol policy. I hope that the Council of State, because she is also a Minister of Russ Policy, can confirm, not least for the sake of women in this country, that it is not about going with her back into the future and reducing quotas and fees to the EU level. We must get the European Union in our direction, and not go the other way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-10.ana.ud608e221	Men and women are still different, fortunately, but, as we have heard a lot about today, they are affected by different diseases to different degrees. What's typical here, as we've heard today, are the structural developments in our society, for example. that women get older and older. We know that after they're over, for example. 85 years, they need a lot more health care. And, as the representative on the pay side was, this is a big group, it's a big challenge. We've heard that women suffer from muscle and skeletal diseases to a far greater extent than men, and that typical human diseases, as someone calls it, such as heart attacks, now have also become a female disease. There are many structural developments that we have to take inwards when we're planning how to solve the female health service. But yet there are some diseases and plagues that only women get, and I'll try to focus a little bit on it. There are diseases linked to the abdomen, and such disorders still do not have a medical high status in the Norwegian health system. We know from Norwegian hospitals that priority will be given to the development of a third heart ward instead of giving priority to typical female diseases, for example. We've just heard that there's a lot of men in control, at least at a superior level, and maybe in the research community. Such priorities are often pursued and applauded by these professionals, especially perhaps by the medical profession. As I'm referring to, heart disease that is known to be a high-level disease within the medical research community, the medical profession and the media, not least – and also among patients and people most I think there is such a strange opinion. I'm going to focus on an area that hasn't been around today, but that's a typical female disease, a female disease – incontinence. Incontinence among middle-aged women, and not least among older women, is a large volume of disease, so these plagues live in – almost – deafness. I think that the examples that I tried to draw out show that there has to be a total change in attitude in our society in order for these typical women's diseases to get the attention and priority within the healthcare service that they really do. It might have been interesting to hear the views of the Council of State on how to improve the situation for these tens of thousands of women who are affected by incontinence.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-10.ana.ud608e232	I am very grateful that this became a good debate, and that all the political parties that have participated see the value of putting women's health on the agenda. Themes have been raised in the United Kingdom during this debate, which is often a little difficult to talk about, whether it be cancer or alcohol abuse. I was also very concerned about women's health during the Council of State the time of the Højbråten. And I'm glad of what the Højbråten said in his post, that he still wants to focus heavily on women's health and follow up the measures that his government put in place. I'm especially pleased with what the Højbråten said about research and medicine in relation to the human body, and that these are things that have to be broken. That's where I think he was very clear. I think it's just to establish that there's a broad political consensus in this room about continuing to bet on women's health and at regular intervals have it as a topic in the Health and Care Committee. To the head of the Health Committee, I must say that good health and good prevention in the general population are also good health for women.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-10.ana.ud608e242	I think it's been a very good debate. I am glad, as the interpellant, that there is a very broad consensus on the objectives of a woman's own health strategy. The representative said that she was afraid that when we were going to forget the men. We won't. But that's of course what the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo said, to some extent we have to have a little 'different approach' to get a similar result. I think that's very much what we're talking about here. So the representative said the payroll that this doesn't go by itself, and referred to the psychiatry as an example. I think that's absolutely right. That's why it's important that we have debates like this, that we talk loud about it in the media, that we do what we can, and that, as Minister of Health, I do what I can, to health companies and others to change the system, so that we can manage to offer everyone, regardless of gender, equal treatment. Unfortunately, we have seen some examples, for example: within heart disease — as we were documented last autumn — which showed that women with heart disease were in some cases treated less poorly and those with worse medications than men. That's unacceptable, and of course we're not going to have it like that. Then I think it's about some lack of knowledge, that the body of women and the body of men are different, and maybe it's also about attitudes. All of this we have to dry to go into, and I want to continue the work that not least the Council of State Højbråten and his government were doing well. I agree with the representative's pay for geriatry and research on it, and getting more educated in that field, also means something to women's health, given the life pattern that we have. We should be happy that everyone lives longer, with the fact that women live longer. Then more people have been into it with alcohol and alcohol. I can only confirm that that development also worries the Government. I can only say clearly that we do not want to add to further liberalisation in this area – I would say: rather, on the contrary. And we're working on that. I am deeply concerned about the developments we now see especially in children and young people, and it naturally continues to reproduce and makes this a challenge for women's health. I'm very aware of that. So here, the government will come back with completely concrete measures to do something in the opposite direction to what we now see, to try to contribute what we can to prevent — of course also when it comes to treatment, but the important thing is to prevent so many people from starting with alcohol and alcohol. Then I can only confirm in relation to the Højbrätten's contributions that funds for research into women's health have been strengthened in recent years. This will be continued for the current year – as far as the representative Højbräten was concerned, osteoporosis research, mental health research, the population survey HUNT3, and the implementation of the Norwegian mother and the children’s study under the auspices of the National Institute for Public Health. This is a type of study that will be continued for the current year. We are also spending additional money in relation to the Norwegian Research Council on research into musculoskeletal and skeletal disorders, which I believe is absolutely crucial when we see the increase there. I am glad that a total accumulation is behind the Government in the important job we are now going to continue to try to get even further than we have come to date, and then there are many tools we have to use.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-10.ana.ud608e259	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-01-10.ana.ud608e279	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
