ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e28	At the request of the Committee on Churches, Persuasion and Research, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and will be allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will make suggestions that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e35	As the rapporteur on the subject, I would first like to thank the Committee on the Clean Work on this matter on freedom of choice in high school. I cannot stand up in this debate and refer to an overall consensus throughout the Committee. That's okay, because we're going to live with different political opinions. But I am glad that a clear majority once again insists that today's system be maintained. I'll say a little bit more about that. The right to secondary education is provided for in the Training Act and, according to § 13-3 of the Act, the county council is obliged to provide all residents with an offer of secondary education. Youth who have completed primary or equivalent education is legally entitled to take up one of three alternative secondary education programmes and two years of secondary education within the programme. Each county municipality is the responsible training authority and the school owner who organises, plans and dimensions the various training provision. This also applies to the rules on intake. It is important to stress that county councils have full freedom to introduce character-based admissions if they are considered as an own instrument for the organisation of training provision. So freedom is there, so it's part of the local maritime administration. That's what we should be holding. In this case, the proposers – as they are known from the Progress Party – argue that the right aspect is an argument for imposing similar practices on county authorities when entering higher education. However, it should be noted that requiring all counties to introduce so-called free school choices could have adverse consequences. It could, in practice, limit the individual student’s freedom of choice. Geography, school structure and school kiss organization are important keywords here. These are factors affecting the ability of each county to meet the primary school demands of individual students. The fact that only pupils have to make a decisive contribution to the competition for student places could lead to a number of pupils being able to suffer different disadvantages. Here you can mention a longer school route, which in turn will lead to long bus trips and an unnecessary and tiring long school and working day. Of course, this will also result in some people being dependent on moving their furniture. It's expensive, and we're talking here about very young students. The consequences of forcing the county to introduce character-based intakes will in some cases be costly, both for students and for the county. The county council is also deprived of the possibility of a reasonable distribution of training provision, and it can therefore be attributed to large cloud expenditure. Finally, there may be reason to stress that in such a situation, some students will be forced to choose a different offer from what they primarily want. So for these students, free choice of school will not be a reality. There is also concern that a character-based admission system could result in a segregated school. The majority believe that, in this context, it is not appropriate to legislate a practice of so-called free school choice. The decision on entry rules should be maintained. The majority are in this context the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Government Parties. We therefore believe that responsibility for school choices should remain a matter for the county. It follows naturally from the fact that the county already has responsibility both as a school owner and as a training authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e56	There are some values and rights that all should participate in, regardless of the address of residence. It also applies in the education sector, all of which, for example: shall be guaranteed equal to the right to education and to a given quality of the training provided. In all key areas of society, the Progress Party believes that it is important to find mechanisms that guarantee individual users freedom of choice. In everyday life, we have a number of choices. We make a number of important choices without the state interfering – whether you're thinking diesel on Statoil or Shell, acting on Rimi, Rema or Coop for that matter, or whether we're calling Telenor, Tele2 or Netcom. All these choices are made without us even thinking about how important this freedom of choice really is. I don't think a lot of people think that Statoil should have the exclusive right to sell diesel, or that Telenor should get the telemonopoly back. The freedom of choice ensures the quality of the service offered, because we as customers are seen as something positive and important. Competition between providers increases our value for the provider. However, when students are asked to choose education, freedom of choice is lessened – not only because the public school almost has no competitors around the country, but also because it is the politicians who have to decide which school students are to take their education. It does not help if the student himself protests and links himself firmly to the bedpost and believes that he is entitled to have influence on his own schoolwork, and is entitled to decide for himself where to take his education. No, the politicians say stop – if you live in the wrong state then. If you live in one of the five states that give the student zero freedom of choice, you have to do what the politicians have decided, anyway. And it's worth noting that there's only five states that don't give the student any kind of freedom of choice. If you live in one of the eight countries with free schooling, you have the opportunity to decide for yourself where to go to school. The experience of these states is positive. The students believe that this is an important freedom. In Westfold County, governed by a red-green majority with RV included, there is free school choice. It works fine and has done it for many years. There is a majority of politicians who are brave enough to let the student have freedom of choice. The Progress Party believes that that freedom should actually be universal, and that state politicians should not have been allowed to put a barrier to freedom of choice that almost half of the states realize that the student should have. It is not a sufficient argument, what the rapporteur put forward here today, to say that it is up to the counties to decide whether the student should be given freedom of choice, just because the counties have administrative responsibility for higher education. Will it then be up to the states to decide whether they will follow the curriculum of the subjects, whether they will conduct professional tests, or whether they will drop out of the entire training obligation? In these areas, everyone will answer that national leadership in the form of legal provisions is important, but when it comes to student rights, national leadership is not as important. Why is it that the states and state politicians should be given freedom at the expense of the individual student? The responsibility of the counties as the responsible administrative level is to follow the national guidelines for the provision of secondary education students. For this reason, we should today decide that the principle of free schooling applies to all high school students, regardless of which country they happen to be living in. I bring this up with the proposal that has been made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e77	The representative Anders Anundsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e80	The right considers that free choice of schools is to be legalised for secondary education and will support the proposals of the Progress Party. But we'll stress that the practical design of the right to free selection can have several forms. The economic and administrative consequences of different solutions therefore need to be further explored. We will also stress that the financial responsibility for higher education will lie with the county council even after the introduction of any free school choice. We believe that free choice of school will increase the motivation of students and can counteract the development of social segregation by residence. So we don't fully understand the argument of the majority. A new approach is needed around Norwegian school: how to stimulate motivation and how to stimulate results in students. The burden of proof of the negative consequences of free schooling should therefore lie with the majority — at least in a process to investigate how it could be achieved. Here it is important not to paint the hell on the wall until you have something to deal with. We also notice that the majority mixes character-based recording into this discussion. It's at best a bad excuse for not wanting to go into the reality of free school choices. It's a shame the majority won't go into a process. This is about political will. It is about students' equal opportunities and rights, regardless of their place of residence. We record little willingness to meet the content of the proposal and to meet the desire to safeguard the interests of students. It's a shame for Norwegian school, and it's a shame for the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e91	If the Progress Party were subject to the Marketing Act, the proposal of the Progress Party on the legalisation of the right to free choice of schools would be judged to be misleading and therefore illegal marketing. The term ‘free choice of school’ is not what it promises. It is not the student's freedom of choice that is proposed, but admission to schools based on grades and sorting, and it should be introduced by coercion. Firstly, the content of the proposal is doubtful and not suitable for creating a better school for students — on the contrary. Secondly, the Progress Party believes that the state should force the county councils, local elected bodies to introduce the ideology of the Progress Party – whether they will or not. The party of progress isn't for most people. They give priority to the elite. The students who have the best grades will be allowed to choose the front line: where they will go to school, and what kind of school they want to go to. The Progress Party does not have much respect for the municipalities and will obviously wind up the local government, except in coastal zone cases and in the case of snowmobiles. One is the question of whether the Stortinget should override the school owner — county municipalities and municipalities — in this case: overrun of the local population. The second is the consequence of forcing the owner of the secondary schools to introduce character-based admissions. It's probably a very good right-wing policy, but it's not good for students most, and it's a threat to bet in public schools. This is not new. The Progress Party had a similar proposal in 2004. Then they were alone. Now they're on the right hand side of the team. The right has turned. I would like to quote the Right from the debate two years ago: ‘To the right, municipal autonomy is so important that national politicians should be careful about detailed governance regarding local initiatives and different local solutions.’ And many are not prepared to accept that people and municipalities choose differently. Luckily, we are in the Right."And further on:"We have to accept that they choose differently. That is perhaps the problem of the Progress Party, that not everyone wants to be like them, and that they should not be allowed to choose." Then the Progress Party stood alone; now they have got Right with them. The right-hand side sits together on the coercion, on the side line, fortunately. At the June 2006 national meeting, just a little over a week ago, party leader Erna Solberg said the following in his closing speech: ‘The higher objective is to create opportunities for all, and we will achieve this by working for five clear goals for Norway.’ [[...]] The first point was a ‘knowledge school where no student is hanging after’. Erna Solberg stressed that the Right from now on would talk more about and focus more on the very weakest in school. It did not last long – until exactly 22 May. A broad majority of the Grand Duchy, from the centre to the left, believes that local populace will continue to decide on this issue. It's local democracy. In addition, the broad majority agree that school entrances based on grades have many very unfortunate consequences. It reinforces social differences, and it means crazyly much unnecessary transport, where students need to spend a lot of time getting to and from school. It is bad for the environment, and it is bad for the economy. SV will spend money developing school, investing in quality in school, upgrading it and not transporting students over long distances. This cargo also leads to segregation, and in the districts it threatens the existing schools. SV believes that it should be a right for 16-year-olds to attend their community school as much as possible. This right will take the Advance Party and the Right from 16-year-olds through coercive measures and by law. Fortunately, the majority of the Storting will do something different.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e137	I was actually going to keep a very lowly and quiet post. I will still do that, but after hearing the ideological storm currents here, I will begin by referring to the historian Leiv Mjeldheim's description of the position of the Left in Norwegian politics, the book "The Golden Interway". I'm going no further than to elaborate what that means. That means that on behalf of my party I am for free schooling, but I think it should be decided locally, and I don't want by law in Stortingen to limit local autonomy. Then it becomes very difficult for me when I'm going to listen to the stormy posts, whether it comes from the outermost right wing, represented by the Progress Party, or from Lena Jensen, from the outermost left wing. But I think that those difficulties are completely possible for wise people locally to find out. To illustrate all the intermediate positions: I have e.g. read the committee setting, and see that when the Advance Party and the Right stand together and match, it's obviously not that they necessarily think the same. These shades will be tolerated. It is not worse than that Norway is a very complex country, there are different conditions in this country. We get to think that the sense that's going to evaluate this locally is able to do that. That's my starting point, and that's why I don't want to vote in favour of a proposal that makes us legislate nationally. I want where I'm present, fighting for such a free school choice. I've done it in that city that I represent on Stortinget, and I've marked that point of view. It's not that today we're discussing how it's going to be designed, what it's going to mean. Actually, it's not a theme. It's a principle that's thematic, but it's expressed during the voting itself. Here, people vote for and against a little bit of a different premise. I am voting against the proposal of the Advance Party, which is supported by the Right, with the premise that I am in favour of free schooling, but I will not dictate local autonomy. That's the basis of the Left, and since there were many ideological winners to start with here, I get to call it the "golden middleway".
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e148	According to the Training Act, the county councils are obliged to fulfil the right to secondary education for all residents of the county. Applicants with youth rights are entitled to take in one of three alternative upper-level education programmes that they have applied for — the one previously named as a basic course — and then to two years of secondary education within the education programme. The starting point is that applicants have to make their choices within the overall range of programme areas in their country of residence. As the majority of the Committee also refers to in the appointment, each county council — as the responsible training authority and school owner — is responsible for organising, planning and dimensioning the various training provision. It is also the county that decides on which school the students are to receive their training. The 19 counties are very different in relation to geography, population, housing patterns, communication possibilities, school structure, number of applicants for a profession, etc. And they have different practices in relation to so-called free choice in higher education. In my reply to the Stortinget on 13 March 2006, I point out that the county councils are completely free to introduce free school choices if they believe this is a suitable tool for example. improved implementation. I believe that such a decision should be a municipal responsibility and that the question of the school at which the training offer is to be given should remain within the administrative area of action of the county. Individual municipalities are the closest to balancing different considerations and ensuring that the best use is made of resources. In the case of students’ opportunities to receive offers in counties other than home, this is ensured, among other things. by purchasing and selling student places to each other from county municipalities on a number of offers. This will take place, among other things: extensive cooperation in border areas between the counties and in the case of offers given only in some places. In addition, there are landlines and nationwide services. In the proposal to introduce free choice of schools, the proposers refer to the situation in high school, where the drop-out of pupils in education is high, and they believe that free choice of schools is likely to lead to more students completing a full course of education. I agree that it is worrying that the drop-out rate in higher education is high – for example. for boys in professional subjects for a total of 44 pst. But we also know that the explanation for the non-response is compounded. I have set up a wide-ranging and fast-working working group to review the reasons why students and apprentices drop out of school and vocational training. The group shall consider both structural, school and individual factors affecting the behaviour of pupils and learners, and propose measures that may lead to minor non-response. The Working Party shall deliver its nomination to the Ministry of Knowledge on 1 July this year. This will provide the Ministry of Knowledge and the counties with a basis for implementing various measures to improve the implementation of higher education. I would also like to refer to the new structure of higher education introduced from the harvest. Today’s 15 study courses will be reduced to 12 educational programmes and today’s 102 VK 1 course will be reduced to 53 programme areas. This will enable even more students than today to meet their primary aspirations for higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e161	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e164	Aristotle gave us the principle and the idea that individuals are the primary unit. So society is not a unity, but only a union of individuals. The individual has his rights by their nature, not as a result of political decisions, and the state is the individual's servant, not the master of man. At primary school level, developments in recent years have led to a far greater influence on the choice of school for their children. However, at secondary level, a number of students are only able to choose schools within a certain distance from where they live. In the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs’ guidance on user choices in schools, it is stated that free choice of schools can help meet the challenge of the knowledge society. It will strengthen and profile the role and tasks of the school in social development. It can give students and supervisors greater opportunity to meet individual needs and needs, and it will help to develop and strengthen contact and cooperation between school and home. There can be positive competition between local schools, and there can be a tool for the school development and profiling of individual schools and help meet the challenge of private school options. In my opinion, these are so positive and important elements that Stortinget should ensure that all Norwegian students were given this opportunity. Instead, we will today experience that the majority is pushing away the possibility and leaving it to the ‘communal maritime administration’ to decide whether the students will be given free schooling, fully aware that their county parishes are likely to oppose free schooling for ideological reasons. What's wrong with the students getting to pick school themselves? After high school, there are free university choices around the world, although you can get the same subject at the nearest university. No one's protesting it. Why should high school students be given less participation over their own education when they are 16 years old than when they are 18? It is not the case that students go to the nearest geographic school better than if they themselves give priority to which school they are going to attend. One of the main purposes of the Norwegian school is to create ‘gang’s human beings. That's a high goal. One thing is certain: you don't become a "gag's man" without trying to learn to make your own choices. I think it contributes to motivation and understanding of the importance of elections and the importance of action. The sociologists will order the students to the nearest school. So what do the students think about it? In fact, in the only professional survey that has been carried out and which is valid following the criterion for the publication of scientific studies, nine out of ten students respond that they want a system of free choice of schools. So they don't want the model that the socialists want to force on them. They will choose for themselves. It is a paradox that there is far greater political resistance to free choice than there are among those for whom we are set to be ombudsmen. Is it so that some politicians want to be the masters of the individual and think they know better than the ones they're set to serve?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e184	The representative of Lena Jensen made a point that the proposal of the Progress Party would come under the advertising ban in the marketing law whose policy came under it. Now I'm a little unsure whether it's Lena Jensen's posts here that will fall into that category, or whether it's the Progress Party's proposal. I'd rather go first. The representative Jensen said that free schooling will not lead to a better school, it will give priority to the elite, and that is not good for most students. Now we just heard the representative Gåsvatn explain what the students' perception of this is. But despite this, Lena Jensen does not come with any professional arguments from this pulpit. It's a political principle Lena Jensen expresses, not any professional argument. I mentioned in my post that Vestfold has had free school choices for many years. They've also had a red majority, iced a little yellow, for two years. Not once has the free choice of school been challenged — not once. I am glad that Vestfold SV has not listened to Lena Jensen's contributions from the pulpit today. Lena Jensen says she doesn't want to overrun local elected representatives. I understand that's SV's angle of it. We believe that local elected representatives should not be allowed to run over the individual student's rights, and there are enough of the differences in the policies of the Progress Party and the SV. And if you don't get all the way out of Westfold, you get almost 90 pst. by the students in Westfold met their first choice in both school and line. It's high in the national context. It's not like the representative Jensen is trying to present it as, that it's a right for everyone to go to high school. It's not like that. It's character-based admission to secondary school, too, even where it's not free school choice. Only then do the character-based recording of the lines. Otherwise, I would like to point out that it is very positive that the Council of State is expressing that he will come back to the Stortinget with a general review of the drop-out situation in high school. It's dramatic. We will also be able to come back to whether there is a link between free choice or not and the drop out percentage in the individual counties. So I look forward to that review.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e199	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2289]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e215	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and will be allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e222	As the Progress Party promoted this document No. The 8th proposal on state funding for expansion at Hope High School was my and the position's goal to arrive at a note that all the parties could stand behind. We did it. I'm glad that that was possible, and I want to praise the position of the result. A high school group is a vocational school for drug users in rehabilitation and aftercare. The school is doing a valuable job of bringing this group of people back to society and fulfilling their dream of a regular job. The Committee believes that this school is a good complement to public school, and we in the Workers' Party believe that when the public does not have a school offer to groups that need a little extra support and a new chance in everyday life, this type of school should be released. I feel that we have all the parties to this conclusion. The Committee asks the Ministry to consider returning to the question of government grants to these schools for disabled, drug addicts, etc. in the context of the 2007 State Budget. In addition, we ask the Ministry to assess the need for state support for these schools in this case. These schools embrace a fairly wide range of policy areas, and I think it is possible to look at the schools in conjunction with the areas of other departments in order to find the best solution for students in these types of schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e233	When the proposal to provide state funds for the necessary addition of Hopen Secondary School was promoted in the hall, I recorded something strange that individual representatives in the foyer made the comment that the Storting should not deal with this kind of individual matter. The reason was probably that these representatives were not very well-informed about what Hope secondary school is. As the rapporteur has explained in an excellent way, Hopen offers high school courses to the weakest of the weakest. The offer is for students who work out of a life of rush, misery and often crime, and into a new world of hope, education and prospects for work. The school has applied for development grants for many years, because it has expanded its offer to prevent students from being forced out of Hope High School after finishing a basic course. Today, the school offers secondary education up to a degree letter, and it is very important for the rehabilitation effect on the individual. I must admit that I was disappointed when the State Council of Djupedal rejected public investment aid because money for schools should go to public schools and not to private schools. Fortunately, the case rapporteur and the government fraction at Stortinget have shown that it is still possible to hear important and sensible proposals. The case rapporteur and the government fraction in the United Kingdom have taken the matter seriously, seen the importance and reason of the school offer, and they have taken the Prime Minister's repeated calls for broad cooperation on the floor. That is important and sensible, and I would like to pay great tribute to the rapporteur for this practical approach. That is also why the Progress Party does not need to promote any alternative proposal in the Chamber. A unanimous committee is making sure that the issue is raised in the 2007 budget, and I sincerely hope that the Council of State, having been thoroughly involved in the work done by these schools, will have a more positive attitude to supporting this effort to provide an adapted training provision for disabled students. I look forward to finding good and constructive solutions to a problem that is important to society, but most importantly to the individual user.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e242	As you know, the Gospel Center is behind the operation of Hope High School. The Gospel Center is well known to most people. For many years it has been the largest private actor in the care of Russorg in Norway, and the philosophy of caring for the individual and the secure framework also characterizes Hope, as it does other Gospel centers. The offer of the Hope Evangelical Center is especially organized for school everyday life. I am also very happy to say that it is nice that we have received a proposal on this in Stortinget, and I am also pleased with the meeting that it has taken place in the committee. I don't intend to use so many words on it beyond that, but I think that a center that the Gospel Center deserves to be a little focused on, and I also want us to be serious when we give this support to Hope. The school needs to expand classrooms and special rooms in line with public expectations for educational facilities. The school has currently established temporary arrangements to meet the most precarious needs of the school, pending a final solution vis-à-vis government authorities. Once the government parties have also addressed this proposal, and agree that Hope and similar schools are in this difficult situation, I also hope that this is an expression of willingness to follow up when the budget comes. I have allowed myself – also in committee context – to express the fact that you want to come back to the question, is a slightly weak wording. There is not so much commitment in it, and I would at least have said from this pulpit that we are going to follow up on this, and be concerned that this is going to be more than words. You don't get too far with honors and understanding when you have to set up premises, neither at Hope, nor at other similar schools. What they need is money to realize these buildings, and therefore I hope that the Council of State can also confirm here today that there will be funds for these schools already in the budget of the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e251	I actually take the word to fulfill a promise I gave myself as a very young politician, because then I often felt that the 'old guys' came and sat down on me, and then I was socially dead right for a long time. I am also taking the floor to give a great deal of recognition to the rapporteur, who is making his debut as rapporteur, and who has done a real and good job. She has managed – I kept saying – to need through any attempt to misplace the matter and make it an ideological battlefield or whatever it might be. She has managed to see that it concerns people who are in a pinch, and she has managed to formulate an attitude that has gathered us together. Sometimes praise should be given from this pulpit as well, and I do.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e260	The President is not disputed in it. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2289]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e282	Fortunately, there is no disagreement that all students, regardless of their functionality, are entitled to an adapted training offer in accordance with their abilities and assumptions. Unfortunately, there is not always the same consensus on how the school should make the clear demands of the Education Act on reality for all students. This is why the debate on integration or special measures comes up at more or less regular intervals, often inspired by media postings that show a student who obviously does not receive a satisfactory offer. In recent decades, we have been able to see major changes in the perception of integration of so-called specialisations — from an era in which children with different physical and mental disabilities were ‘hidden away’ in institutions to an era in which full integration is described as the right thing to do. There is no doubt that the current situation, with its integration as the absolute starting point, is correct, both from a training and development point of view and, in particular, from a human world point of view. However, in this interpellation, I would like to highlight that in some cases the pendulum may appear to have shifted too far towards integration. It may seem — both from the experiences of parents of children with special needs with school and from the public debate — that the desire for integration is so strong that in some cases it is overlooked that the student may have other needs. The feeling of integration is the obvious starting point, should not hinder the desire of parents and students for other solutions in cases where other solutions are obviously best for children. The documentary film ‘Jenta from Oz’ showed the fate of an evolutionary student who was placed in a normal class, sail if she had obviously been better off being with students in the same situation. This film sparked a strong debate, with partly strong, emotional and not least categorical statements about which solution would have been the best. I therefore hope that this interpellation can provide the basis for a slightly more balanced debate and at the same time give the Minister of Knowledge the opportunity to follow up and elaborate on the statements made in the Evening Post on 28 March, where he called for a greater monitoring of the situation of students with different developmental disabilities in the school and the offers they receive. For a long time, the right has sought a broad analysis of training for children, young people and adults with special needs. Already in 1998, the Right proposed for the first time that such an investigation should be carried out, in the light of developments since the special school law was integrated into the training law in 1975. Since then, the problem has been raised many times without the possibility of proper monitoring. Often it is difficult at all to get into a discussion, because motives are drawn into doubt, or the views and consequences are drawn into the extreme. The most convenient thing is, of course, to ignore the whole debate or hide behind ideological atrocities, but then we fail the responsibility we have with the children and the families involved. In order to prevent any misunderstanding: the right starting point is that integration into the so-called primary school is the normal solution for students with special training needs. The objective of adapted training also applies to these students, and we are quite sure that the implementation of the knowledge promise, with greater emphasis on local freedom of action and adaptation, will make it easier than before providing students with good local services. But there is an equally natural starting point for the Right that it is the parents who must have the decisive word when it comes to whether or not their children are to be trained in the so-called primary school. There is no doubt that it is the parents who know their children best, and there is no reason to doubt that the parents, when faced with a choice, will choose the solution they are convinced of is the best for the children. We fully share the view that all children and young people have the right to an offer of organised training in their own community. It is important to build up good local services in the home settings of students, but at the same time it is necessary to make choices available. Students who obviously need a special offer must be able to receive such an offer. There is little doubt that integration has been and is positive for all, most of them. At the same time, however, it is important to maintain that the most important consideration must be given to the individual student, and that therefore one must be open to choose the solution that gives the best opportunities for development to the students, whether through integration into the secondary school or through an offer in a special department or special institution. If it can give the student a better and safer offer than what the student would have received in a normal school, the policy should not stand in the way. The political point must be to put the student ahead of the system and be willing to take more individual considerations into account. It's about seeing the people. In the debate that followed the presentation of the documentary, among others: the governing party SV has been on the track and considered that integration is the only right, in any case. I hope it depends on a misunderstanding, or that the position is drawn a little long. It should also be borne in mind that quite a number of parents of students with special needs see integration on the other hand, namely that their children are put on display so that society can see that there are children who are different from us. It can be a pretty cruel experience. The group of students with special needs is very complex and needs change with the age of their children. For example, the differences in kindergarten age are very small, while in puberty they are very large. The students’ challenges span everything from Down’s syndrome to behavioural problems of varying degrees and major physical or mental handicaps. In the group of behavioural problems, it is also very different. We have everything – from those who worry and fight for hours simply because they're bored, to those who have heavy diagnostics. Before the weekend, I met three parents who have children with special needs. Two had children in kindergarten, and one had children in school. Let me briefly refer to some of the points of view that emerged. Firstly, the biggest challenge is that this group is so complex, from children with Down syndrome who receive reading and writing training to severely disabled children with the biggest challenge of having a diaper shift to work. Integration is important in kindergarten where other children are good role models. Integration is most important at an early age before the differences become too large. Parents need the option to choose an acceptable offer in the local environment and the option to choose different offers as the child grows. Children with special needs gathered in groups in ordinary school can give these children a good mastery feeling. The parents will have the freedom to choose for themselves the offer that best suits their child, and one of the parents told me she's going to choose a school offer for her son based on where other kids he knows about Down's syndrome will go, because he needs comrades. She's sure he won't have comrades in a school or in a class with just "usual" children. In particular, schools need to have a toolbox that they can use, and competences are important. Few have the necessary skills, and therefore the offer becomes very personal. If the resources are scarce, the wear on this part of the staff becomes large. Illness can get high, and you get into an evil circle. The last point the parents made was that there must be a political recognition that these students and these children are very resource-intensive, also economically. In brief, the following can be said: 1st@item: inlistbox Integration must be the main instrument, but not at all costs. The children must be given the greatest consideration, and parents must have the freedom of choice to choose the best offer for their children.2. This group is so complex that there is a need for differentiation and different solutions.3. There must be a political recognition that it is resource-intensive to offer these children a good offer.4. Competence must equal money. Here we have, for example: small municipalities a major challenge. In the case of pupils with developmental disabilities or those with physical disabilities, it is tempting to say that the right to training in secondary school is absolute to parents, if they so wish. However, a major challenge is for students with serious behavioural problems. Unfortunately, there is a lot of evidence that these kinds of problems are increasing, while we see examples of this behavior becoming more violent than before. While behavioural problems in the past were significantly linked to high school and high school, trends towards this problem spreading downwards in the age groups are now apparent. It is difficult to accept that in a compulsory school you cannot protect students and teachers from violence. It is also difficult to accept that one or a few students should be able to destroy the learning environment of the vast majority. It is therefore necessary for municipalities to establish, to a greater extent than at present, alternative options for students with serious behavioural problems so that parents can make real choices. So the behavioral problems are the exception to the general rule, and no children with special training needs are to be forced out of the regular school if their parents think it is best for the children to be there. But at the same time, maybe this choice would have been easier if there were real offers. So simple and so difficult is the challenge, and I hope the Minister of Knowledge will address it with an open mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e329	The government aims to develop a school based on knowledge, skills, mastery and community. All children and young people should be seen, stimulated and motivated to learn and develop further — professional and social. Equivalence, inclusive and adapted training is an overall principle in Norwegian school. The Training Act states that all pupils should be given appropriate training. Students who do not receive an adequate benefit from the training are entitled to special education following a single decision. First of all, I would like to stress that students with special needs are a very diverse group, which was also involved in the interpellant. These are students with different difficulties and diagnostics, such as: ADHD, autists and mentally retarded, e.g. including children with Down syndrome. Students with the same diagnosis are also different. What is appropriate for one student is not necessarily appropriate for another student. This has also been achieved through several specific examples in the media, and not least through many contacts I have received in the ministry. Therefore, it is not a simple grip or standardised solution that is the answer. Several actions need to work together and contribute to a good follow-up of the individual student. Municipalities and county councils are responsible for training all children and young people in accordance with the legislation. The Education Act gives all primary school students the right to attend the school to which they are soccer. Students who receive special education after a single decision may require such training in secondary school. Based on the individual situation, the municipality can provide training at another school when this is considered to be the best solution. However, the student and the officers may refuse such an offer. When the Training Act opens up different choices and solutions, the range of services available in different municipalities will also vary. In any case, it follows from the law that provision of special education is to be drawn up as far as possible in cooperation with the student and the parents, and that a great deal of emphasis is to be placed on their views. All students entitled to special education following individual decisions shall have an individual training plan, an IOP. The plan shall be drawn up in consultation with the proposers and the student himself. The PPT shall guide and assist in this work. The plan shall be evaluated every six months, and through concrete cooperation between the individual student, this scheme is provided for in order to identify whether the student’s offer is ‘obviously an unfortunate solution’, as asked by the representative. If it is found that the offer is not good enough, responsible school authorities and teachers must discuss with supervisors what can be done to change and improve the offer. The need for special pedagogical competence must then be withdrawn. PPT has a key role here, but cooperation on other services in question may also be necessary. State special pedagogical support system may guide and assist in such a process. Should the parents nevertheless feel that the training offer is not good enough, and does not comply with the law, they have the right to complain to the county council. The right to adapted and equivalent training in an inclusive school for all has been established through many school reforms. Recent research, however, shows that we have not yet achieved this goal. In order to provide an adapted and well-organised offer, school leaders and teachers need to have good and relevant skills. Adapted and high-quality training and special education is a priority area of the Knowledge Lift and the Strategy for the Development of Competences. Special pedagogical competence is an essential element in this context. Universities and colleges cooperate with specialised educational centres to develop relevant offers. Reports from municipalities to now show that adapted training is one of the areas that school owners have prioritised the highest in their plans. I am pleased that the representative Eriksen in his question points out that Norwegian school uses – and will use – considerable resources to train students with special needs. We're both concerned that the resources are being used correctly, and that the students are getting good follow-up. The representative, Eriksen, asks me how I want to ensure that the attention of individual students with special needs is adequately taken into account, even in cases where mainstreaming in ‘ordinary school’ is clearly an unfortunate solution. I am concerned that there is a searchlight on special education, but at the same time I would warn against urgent action that could undermine the goal of obtaining as much as possible a good offer within the framework of the ordinary home school. I don't want to go back to a society where we hid our children in institutions, and I'm glad that the interpellant also underlined this point. In order to ensure a well adapted offer to the individual, three types of follow-up and assessment are relevant. One is the law-based assessment related to the individual training plan, which is to be carried out every six months. The second is the assessment to be made by the national quality assessment system. Systematic use of diagnostic tests and other screening and observational material are important tools in this context. The third relates to the evaluation of the Knowledge Lift. A comprehensive review of adapted training and the place of special education in school will be an important part of the evaluation. This includes, inter alia: a mapping of organisation and content, resource use and performance, the tasks of the State support system and the PP service and Statped. This has been assigned to the Education Directorate. Sub-reports will be prepared during the evaluation period and to quote St.prp. No 1 for 2005-2006: ‘Assessment, exchange of experience and dissemination of information will be provided so that positive results can contribute to the implementation of course changes. The user groups will be central to this work.’ I would like to add here that I have already informed the Education Directorate to ask the parents of children with special learning difficulties about how they and the children experience their situation. This is an important part of the evaluation work. In other words, it is the school to be adapted to the child, not the opposite. Should the overall evaluation of the Knowledge promise subsequently show that regulatory adjustments are needed, we will need to look at this in more detail. I would also like to point out that the County has the power to decide whether all aspects of the training offer are in accordance with the law. The county may also require a municipality to change the training provision where it is not suitable to meet the needs of the child. Municipalities cannot demonstrate economic reasons if this results in the student not receiving a quality training offer and in accordance with the requirements of the law. The government is concerned that all people are unique and are to be met by a school that understands and takes care of their individual assumptions. I would like to emphasise again that it is not a simple grip or standardised solutions that ensure a good offer to the individual. Whether or not pupils are able to obtain satisfactory offers at the ordinary home school needs to be assessed in a concrete way. This is also the responsibility of the State to decide, inter alia. in the context of complaints. Furthermore, a cycle has been set up that will follow the development of this area closely in the future, so that consideration of individual students with special needs will be adequately taken into account. It's an important debate that the interpellant travels. I am also pleased with the nuanced tone of the interpellant, namely that there is no standardised or easy answer here. A society like ours must always raise the debate about how we treat the weakest, even in school. That means that I look forward to this debate, and I look forward to that an overall increase might happen if it is such that the rate needs to be adjusted. Because, like the interpellant, I have also received many enquiries, and I have followed with great interest the debate that has taken place in public, not least after the film that was also referred to by the interpellant, which naturally makes a strong impression on all of us who see it. I think this debate is good, and I would like to thank the interpellant for taking a nuanced level and not saying that there are easy answers to such demanding challenges that we are facing here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e364	I think the knowledge minister points to something quite right when he starts and ends by saying that there is no standardised solution that suits everyone. That's absolutely right. And that might be especially true in situations where we see children with special needs. But then too many parents feel that it is not the formal rights that are the main challenge, but how the situation is experienced when you have a child with special needs. For example, a large number of parents experience that they are met by the kindergarten or by the secondary school with a little wrinkle that tells them that integration is really a little difficult, both because it costs a lot of money and because it requires special adjustments, while at other times when parents primarily want a special offer for their children, they feel that they have no other offer than full integration into the community and in school. So there might be a need for more knowledge in the municipalities as well, there is a need for knowledge dissemination in the municipalities. I think that is a good proposal, as the Council of State points out, that what has to come out of the evaluation is also a greater degree of information dissemination and dissemination of good examples. I also assume that the Council of State will come back to Stortinget with the results of the evaluation that the Directorate is currently carrying out, assuming that it is not least a real tool – and a real listening point – for parents with children with special needs. The state councils are warning against hasty arrests. I do that, too, and that's why I have the angle of incidence in the interpolation that I have. But I want to say that for some of these children, there is actually a lot of urgency about getting an offer that is adapted to the needs and wishes of both parents and students. That doesn't mean you're going to wonder about the whole situation for students with special needs in one day or with one grip, but it's about the urgency of seeing people, and in many cases it's urgent to see the students. In conclusion, I also want to be so bold that I interpret the Council of State to that he is not in line with his party trap Rolf Reikvam in that integration is what you should choose in any case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e378	Let me first underline that there should not be economic considerations that will be essential for the child's offer. The municipality has an obligation to organise a teaching arrangement for the child based on the individual assumption of the child. This means that there must be a dialogue between parents and supervisors, the child and the local school authority on how this is done, insofar as it is not initially agreed on what the offer should be. My starting point is that we need to find out more about how these kids feel in the situation they're in. That's why I also asked the directorate that they should ask about this. Just this practical approach to a school reality I think I can be right, because that means getting a knowledge of how kids feel about it. We see in the newspapers that many of these children – at least it is described this way – become lonely in school, they don't make friends in school, they feel they are different in school, and in that way the distance between so-called normal students and these students is created. This is knowledge that we have to take with us when we're going to organize solutions for each family and each child. My – and our government – starting point is that the solutions for each child will and must be different, because children are unique and different. What might be right for one child isn't necessarily right for another child, even though they might have the same formal diagnosis. Our starting point is the law – and our government's starting point is this: we have to meet the children with different measures, because it may be necessary to maximise the social and professional benefits of teaching. Let me then just underline something that I think the interpellant is very right in, and that applies in this case as in many other aspects of life: as parents or guardians of a child with special problems, you meet many people in a municipality or in a school, but it's often the 'drive' you have, that gives some of the result. There's a big difference between our many municipalities and many schools, and this is probably an experience many of us have in many of the different ways of life. But we believe that all children should have rights, and these rights should be fulfilled by the municipality, starting with – as I have stressed – the special needs of the child, and facilitating social and professional progress or opportunities in school. I feel that this debate is based on exactly the same assumptions that Eriksen has and that our government has. I therefore believe that this debate will continue to be a good debate, because it has also highlighted an important problem and because there is no wish for the pendulum to go as far back as I am aware that some people in the public debate have called for, namely that we should restore the special schools. I'm glad that the interpellant stresses that it's not her starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e396	Norwegian school is a very good school in many areas. An area that is demanding, but which in every way also shows the quality and diversity of schools, is that it should be a fully integrated school where all children can get their schooling. We have a school that can offer individual students customised training based on the individual's assumptions. This does not mean, however, that we have a school day free of challenges to get this done. Adapted training and a school for all have not eliminated the need for special pedagogical competence in any way, rather on the contrary. Children and young people with hearing and vision difficulties, language difficulties, which are strongly disabled, who stem, have major learning difficulties, behavioural problems, etc., depend on the school’s having or having the skills to adapt to their needs. That's what I think we should focus on when we see headlines in the media that children and young people don't get the benefit of the adapted education that you have expectations of. What I hope it won't be focused on is whether there is a need for the establishment of special schools in order for the offer to be good enough for the students involved. I hope that the time is right for special schools, although I also realize that for some students or student groups we have a too bad offer in today's school. I have visited schools in my own municipality on several occasions. During these visits, I have been particularly briefed on how to organise the teaching for students with special needs. What has struck me, and which has also been confirmed by conversations with parents, is that in the classes these students go, it feels very positive that there is one or more in the class or group who have special arrangements and special resources around them. The other students also benefit from the extra resources associated with individual liver. Special pedagogical resources and environmental worker resources may be perceived as very positive for the learning environment. In addition, students get a natural relation to disability, which is an additional benefit for the functionally healthy students. However, when I want a debate on how we can organise for students with special needs in the community school, it is in recognition that there is a lack of significant competence in many schools today, so that actions such as educational-psychological services in the municipalities sketch out for some students are not always followed up. This may be due to a lack of financial resources, but also in very many cases to a lack of competence at individual schools. Of course, special pedagogical skills and environmental worker competence are available at each school. However, often it is the kind of competence of a college that is necessary for action to be followed in relation to individuals. Special pedagogical research within the Norwegian school system, according to the trade union community itself, is economical in the sense that special pedagogics is a young subject in research. There is a great need for this type of research, not least in the wake of the reforms that have taken place in our school. In recent years, the school has undergone major changes. The change that might be the largest is the resolution of the fixed class structure and the transition to the group. In addition, the fixed schedule has been replaced by weekly schedules. This places great demands on students’ ability to structure their own schoolwork. For students who need structure in school everyday life, this has given rise to additional challenges that we do not know the consequences of. But we know that the drug use by e.g. ADHD has sessioned. I want the Norwegian school to remain an integrated school where all children and young people can go together. But it presents great challenges in terms of how we accommodate the individual student. Then we need more knowledge of how things are at school in this area, and we need the special educational work to work. This means that we need to stimulate more research, secure strong educational and psychological centres of excellence throughout the country, provide good professional environments in the municipalities, and stimulate each school to think about how it can ensure that the school has access to the necessary skills in specialised education and environmental work. I trust that the Minister of Knowledge has a high level of preparedness in this area, and that is what he is saying today. It is important to be able to still say that we have a fully integrated school where all children can go together, and where individual students need special arrangements get the learning outcomes they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e415	I would first like to thank the interpellant for bringing up for discussion a theme that puts a lot of feelings into action. For many years, the Progress Party has called for parents to be given an opportunity to choose a school offer that is best organised for students with special needs even outside the secondary school. The last time we had this up to debate, we were torpedoed by what I would call the followers of mainstream integration. They are not concerned with the individual’s needs but with the fact that the principle of integration applies to all, regardless of whether the individual student is offered the best possible offer. The followers of what I call principle integration are primarily some politicians, some special organisations and better-informed within their own disciplines. At the same time, we received dozens of statements of support from them. Parents and grandparents were on my phone for several weeks to support the Progress Party's vision. Many told me that they fought a hopeless fight against their own partner organisations and a system that many local authorities recognized offered too badly, but with which they could not help. What can be more demanding and frustrating than seeing your own child be lonely, frustrated and excluded from school? Who here wants that job? Why should these parents not be able to choose a more adapted and competent offer for their children? The examples I was given from my desperate parents were bad and difficult, and a complete review of the whole problem is necessary. It is necessary to distance oneself from the principle of integration and to adopt a more practical approach in which the choice of parents and the interests of individual students are centered. I want to quote Tor Inge the Roman, who is a researcher at the Norwegian Institute for Research on Growth, Welfare and Ageing, NOVA. He says, ‘The question of the integration of people with disabilities has been too much influenced by ideology and has not been based on practical assessments.’ Two out of ten special students feel included. That means 80 pst. by the students somehow do not feel included. Three out of four special livers don't play with peers in the spare minutes. Can we as the responsible authority sit still and look at this kind of dissatisfaction? The Progress Party believes that this is unacceptable, and we expect the Council of State to follow this up in a different way than saying that the Middle School should be better. It is impossible for each school and municipality to offer a sufficiently good offer within the framework of a normal class to a very large number of special lives. Of course, if their parents are satisfied, they shall continue to be entitled to attend the secondary school. But where that's not good enough, parents will have the right to choose something else. Norway has the most integrated school in the world – at good and bad. For many, it's important that a person can be adapted and socialised in any way. But let's at least recognize that the inequalities in the needs of special life are infinite. What's right for one doesn't fit for another, and that's exactly what the Council of State also said on this pulpit. The Progress Party proposed to allocate 50 million in the budget. kr for various measures for special livers. We did that because we would focus on the individual student's needs and wishes and in practice facilitate the best possible learning outcomes. We don't want to fight for principles that lead to students becoming lonely and parents frustrated by the lack of alternatives. Principle integrations are done because they don't work in practice, and the faster we take it in, the better it is for the individual user. The interpellant challenged the Council of State to address the challenge with an open mind. I actually think the council was more open in the approach than I've heard him in a long time – and that's positive. But I also registered that the Council of State said the goal is to provide the best possible offer in ordinary school. We believe that the goal is to provide the best possible offer to the individual student, and that is a significant difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e443	The theme that Mrs Eriksen is addressing today is extremely important. If a society succeeds, it can be measured by how we succeed in integrating and treating the weakest among us. I am pleased that the inter-pellant and the Council of State clearly affirmed in their introduction today, that it is important to stick to the principle of inclusion from human and pedagogical perspectives, that all children have the right to have a school that is adapted to skills and skills, and to develop both professional and social skills in the best possible way, and that all children have the right to individualised training. The school has to be for our kids, and they're diverse, they're lush, they're different, and they're a very complex group. It is important, as I said at the outset, to keep the principle of integration high in this debate. No one's earned that we, in a big way, put the kids away in schools and institutions. Fortunately, only the Progress Party is responsible for this in Norway, and they are still far from in government. The debate is in completely wrong ways when it's a caller in response, are special schools. But not all kids benefit from going to a full class. They experience a decline instead of progress. It's very individual how to learn and how to take up knowledge. I've met parents who have told us that children can only evolve through movement and only by using large spaces. Much is also about strengthening the competence of teachers and focusing on special education. I think Ine Marie Eriksen is right that the money is being used incorrectly in many areas. Many children get assistants who teach them in ordinary classrooms, who don't have the skills they need and who can actually make things worse. We have recently received through the media a picture of parents' desperate struggle against the auxiliary device – a struggle to get a diagnosis, to get a good offer for the children. Many parents and students work too much and too long to get well-organised training services. I have met with parents who are fighting for help and for the children to have a diagnosis. What's important to me and to SV is that you don't need a diagnosis to get the help you need. Help is to be there when you need it. I can take an example that the ADHD association provides. From parents reporting that their child needs help, it takes an average of four years to get the help and special education you need. And this is too long. It takes too much time before you get help, and when the help comes, it can often be too late. The students have got so big a hole in their basic skills that they turn their backs on and do what is completely natural for them – they stand on the sideline of their own reality. It's important today that we put help in at an earlier stage. It's too random what kind of competence you have in each school. That's why there's a lot of difference between students getting the help they need. We also need to find and highlight the good school examples — where integration works, where skills are available at school. In this context, we need to draw up and refer to the good examples of schools where both integration and special classes work. Integrating as much as possible where possible is the starting point of SV. We also know that there are different practices from municipality to municipality. We know that eight out of ten children in Oslo and Akershus with major general learning difficulties are in special classes, while in small municipalities they are usually in ordinary classes. Children who do not enter ordinary classes are also more often segregated from leisure activities and have fewer friends than those in ordinary classes. The studies that have been conducted show large individual differences. What's our challenge, and what we have to deal with, is to create a school that's adapted to the individual youth.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e462	There is reason to pay tribute to the interpellant that she addresses this important but also difficult topic. «Integrated into solitude» was as far as I remember a book title a few years ago, and I am afraid that this might have become everyday for some students with special needs. A number of newspaper headlines have also shown that the integration of many is not real. Much may indicate that integration has become more a honorary word in line with the concept of customised training, words that we all know are very important, but that we have not yet completely managed to fill with content. Maybe we have to go as far as to ask the question of integrating students with special needs may have played down here in the country. The Christian People's Party still believes it is important that all students are included in a good way, and that children with special needs also attend the same school as other children in the community. Near-environment school should be an arena where children and young people meet with their differences and learn respect for each other. It's important for everyone to be able to go to school with the same playmates they have in their spare time. The Christian People's Party agrees that it is important for the students to be integrated into the secondary school. At the same time, we see that integration becomes more difficult the higher the class steps you get. Many students need offers that require a high level of equipment or competence among employees. This may mean that municipalities need to be able to seek cooperation in order to make a good offer. In particular, this may apply to small municipalities. In some places in the country, several municipalities have joined forces to make a joint offer. Follo Kinderschule is a good example of this. For several years, they have made a good offer to students with special needs. The school is located in Ski municipality and is owned by the seven Follo municipalities Ski, Vestby, Oppegård, Frogn, Ås, Nesodden and Enebakk. Today, the school has an interim board that aims to establish the school as an intermunicipal company. However, it has proved difficult to achieve this objective. According to a letter from the Education Directorate, it turns out that this type of operation will be illegal. Under the Training Act, the municipality is responsible for fulfilling the right to primary education and special educational assistance. In the opinion of the Directorate, there must be a clear basis in the Training Act if the authority of a municipality is to be added to someone other than the municipality itself. Such a permit is not provided for in the Training Act. According to the Directorate, there are also no pre-work points in the Training Act to allow municipalities to transfer the exercise of authority and responsibility to other bodies. It is the municipality that is responsible under the Training Act. However, we are well aware that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has produced a note of consultation on changes to the municipal law that can mean a decoration in relation to inter-municipal cooperation. It would be interesting to hear the extent to which the Council of State believes this will eventually mean changes in relation to the establishment of inter-municipal schools for pupils with special needs. The school in Follo is not the only one of its kind in the country. There are several other municipalities that have merged to make such an offer. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, it should be considered to amend the Training Act so that intermunicipal cooperation on special education can be opened up. The assumption must be that local authorities and parents believe that this is the best offer for the children. Another prerequisite is that the rights of students under the Training Act are not impaired. The responsibility of municipalities to fulfil the right to primary school education and special educational assistance for each individual student remains constant. The major challenge in terms of integration is that it has to be perceived as real for the person concerned. Only then have we succeeded. In order to achieve this, it is essential that the system itself is not put ahead of the students and their needs. Adequate attention needs to be paid to individual pupils with special needs. This also applies in cases where mainstream school integration is obviously an unfortunate solution. That's why we need to see if there are other and better ways to organise integration, primarily within today's school. Then we also have to be willing to change the system. We need to make the necessary changes to ensure that inclusion can be seen as real for those children with special needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e481	First of all, I would like to pay tribute to Ine Marie Eriksen, who addresses an important, but also very difficult, theme. I agree with the interpellant: there are no quick and simple answers here. Children as a group are vulnerable in themselves. So here we're talking about a group of special needs. The right and obligation of training were statutoryized 30 years ago in the then law of primary school. The concept of customised training also came on the agenda. That right has become more and more strengthened, late in a legislative change in 2003. Of the total student group, there is a small group of children and young people with special training needs. This is, as mentioned earlier today, a very heterogeneous group, which can have anything from relatively simple reading and writing difficulties to heavy multiple functional impairments. Very many of these students get the offer at their secondary school, and many schools succeed in this challenge. But we're left with a small group of people who have major problems in 'ordinary' school. There's a reason to look at this. These students are physically integrated into the school. And in this debate, this very concept, integrated, has been used a number of times. But there is a lot of evidence that they are not included. And then the question is, can they be? In now 2003: 16, ‘In the first row’, it says among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘An inclusive school demands a lot for the school. When a student doesn't work, the question is, what's wrong with the school? In the traditional school, the question has been: What is wrong with the student?’ The centre party believes that the school must be better equipped to meet different student groups from the student’s point of view, based on the student’s rights and needs. The goal is the best possible offer for each student. The school shall be a cross-section of society as well as rusty children and young people to grasp life outside. In a good public school, there must be room for everyone. But it will cost, competence costs. I'm not going to claim that I have a complete overview of the Norwegian school life, but it's probably a fact that several of the students who had needed a pedagogical tailor-made scheme are left to assistants. Based on their assumptions, the assistants probably do a very good job, but they do not have the relevant vocational training. Teacher density and group size are of course important keywords as well. In order to provide all students with individual learning plans and follow-up at their level, it is necessary that the teacher has the capacity to really see the individual. It can shine as an insurmountable task when a large student group holds a wide range of skills. This requires, among other things: that teachers are also thinking a little bit new. For example, more people could be more aware of the student's strengths and develop and build on them. Maybe it might have a positive effect on behavioral students. And then until what I feel is implicit in the interpellation, and that's been up in different media: should all the students go to high school? That must be the absolute rule. Schools and communities must strive to facilitate conditions so that there is room for all. Then we might have to admit that in a few cases the ordinary school is unable to make a worthwhile offer. Because, in addition to learning, we need to focus on quality of life in school. For the few who do not experience any joy or feel any quality of life in school, alternative offers must be correct. It is reassuring to hear a warm-hearted government council that is concerned about this issue. And it's important that we get a broad evaluation of the promise of knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e506	There is no doubt that as many have said, and as many have commented, the interpellant has taken us on a rather demanding and difficult journey. What's the common denominator, as I see it in the hall, and as the left part, and as I stand for, is that we're going to put the individual children and the individual student in the center. Then I think in a lot of cases we'll end up with the answer that it's best in what we call the regular school. But we will also end up with the answer that it's not always right, and then we have a practical political challenge, because then there are different opportunities in this country. I can illustrate that by taking Oslo School. I'm going to illustrate it at a very special special school in Oslo, namely Nordvoll School, which is a school for autists who have been fought by parents after the HVPU reform. And those who work there, the teachers, who are very motivated and competent people, say that the parents have fought it out. And this school now has 15 years of experience in Oslo. Based on autists, they say dry – and I do not say this is right – that approx. 80 pst. Of those that they're dealing with, you can do absolutely everything you have to do in the right way in what we can call the normal school. 20 pst. does not, under any given conditions, obtain it. Some of them you've tried, and then you can't. Then there will be a system force if you are to push children into situations where you know it's not going to work. So in Oslo school, in this big city, the school reality is that it's about. 126 primary schools, 20 special schools and 24 secondary schools. Then there's a choice. That choice does not exist at all. In some places, according to what Mr Lånke has called the principle of forgiveness – i.e. it obviously exists – not by permission, but by forgiveness. So there are intercommunal solutions. I have myself looked at such an intercommunal solution in the Grimstad area, Langemyr school. And I've got all the nuances of life on the table, just as I felt that the Council of State answered the interpellant – with the intention of doing so. I have also been present when the Christina film was shown. There was no one in the film or someone who was present, who was pronouncing the school in Os – on the contrary. They said they did absolutely what they could. But what came out was that there are often watertight bulkheads between school and many other parts of the auxiliaries that should be set up. Then there will be a job for us who are engaged in politics, whether it's in this room or you're a state councillor, to make sure that there's so much cultural massage going on that auxiliaries relax. Some of the experiences that really cross my mind, based on many years of political experience, are that the best and most competent professionals often write an infinity of investigations and plans, leaving it to the least skilled to carry out the job that the plans require. When I experience this time and again on my journey through life over many years, we face a system failure, we face a system challenge. Because it doesn't make sense for us to span the best and longest education on people to make the ideal investigation for someone, and then leave it to others. Now it's not just in this area that it's like this. All of us who have a certain experience know, for example. that the Norwegian Psychiatric Service is the police and not psychiatric nurses. But now we're talking about kids and school. And I would like to send to the Council of State how he can grasp this system clamp that obviously exists and that others have been in here – also the representative Enger. Because it's going to be wrong that those we give the best education and the prerequisite for doing something, they don't get enough close contact with those who really need it. Then I have as my starting point that you're actually willing to stand up and help. I see it as very positive that the Council of State will systematically monitor, and that he wants as an ideology – to put it that way – to put the individual person and the individual student in the centre. I also believe from the ideology that the ideal of integration we have will hold in very many cases, and that we shouldn't in any way easily let us sweep away from it. But we would almost be cruel and merciless if we didn't see the situations where it didn't. It would be quite terrible and we would be freezing if we didn't take in the parents and the kids who have been through those situations, because then we'll make someone to throw ball. And then the conclusion is that then we're suddenly inside a hike that doesn't call for any simple political headlines, but it calls for a kind of reflective debate that we can get around an interpellation with the shape it has in Stortinget, to which I want to contribute. This concerns the ideals of the inter-pellant and the state councils and the ideals of all those who have spoken here. But the challenge is to make sure that the practical choice that exists can also exist more places than in the situations I have described, especially from Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e519	First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank you for the debate. I think it's been a good debate, and I think it's revealed what I hope is a bigger consensus than you might get through the media debate. We all have a strong desire for integration to succeed where it is appropriate, but at the same time we have a recognition that it is not always true, and that real choices must be made for the parents and the children concerned. And with that, I think it's important to have the following questions: Why do we integrate, and for whom do we integrate? The important thing there is to see the people, see the children, and say that we integrate for the sake of the children. We're not integrating for the sake of society. And that's a pretty important difference. As I also mentioned in my interpellation, there are some parents who experience that they are almost being pushed into an integrated solution because society is going to see that there are children who are different and who have other needs. So it's not because it's for the best for the other students and for the kids themselves, but because society needs to see that someone is different, just different. This is not why we integrate – we integrate for the sake of children. I think it's important to point out that in many places there are people with a lot of competence for students with special needs and special education. But often they sit in the scenes and train others. They are rarely in contact with the children's sea. Maybe that's something you should look a little bit closer to and do something about. So the best skills are far away from the kids and could have been better used closer to them. This is a problem that is not easy at all. The recognition is that it is difficult to make it work in practical policy, but I think there are two aspects in particular: the needs of children are changing, for example. dramatic between kindergarten and puberty, perhaps almost even more than for so-called normal liver. While integration is very good and useful in kindergarten, it can be a direct disaster later in the education cycle. Perhaps we should especially remember Ola T. Loaned the word about the book "Integrated to Loneliness". It tracks back to the question I asked at the very beginning: who do we integrate for? If we can manage to keep the individual tab high and see the people, I think we can get far on the way in the practical policy as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e530	Like all those who have spoken in this debate, let me thank you for a good debate and thank you to the inter-pellant for raising a demanding but important issue. I don't know if it's possible to say from this pulpit that you agree with all the posts that are held, but at least there's something in the vicinity of what I feel, that there's a kind of consensus that the Storting is concerned about looking closely at the different instruments we have, based on how the children are going to get the most organized teaching arrangements. As is well known, the law opens up different ways of organising the offer, both in the ordinary home school and outside. In an assessment of the student’s situation, the starting point is to offer a different educational situation from that provided by the home school. This is the starting point, but let me stress – just that this will not get a kind of impact page towards the fact that the ordinary home school will not initially be the best offer for most – that we have thousands of children in Norwegian school who are integrated and included in various ways, and where parents, children and school make an outstanding effort to get these well-organised teaching facilities. Furthermore, let me just stress that the cases we have seen, perhaps in the media debate in particular, are of course children who obviously need a different offer – or at least a better and wider offer – than they might have had over time. But most of the kids we don't hear about, because they actually have it quite well in the ordinary home school and have an offer that the parents and they themselves think is good. All of us who have children in school also know this from our own experience. We see the children in our children's classes, in our classroom and in other contexts. We see that they are largely comfortable, and that the school is good at facilitating the inclusion of children in a natural and natural way. Let me also stress that there is often a need for interdisciplinary cooperation on many of the most vulnerable children in school. Their – shall we call it – problems or suffering will be complex. In that case, there will not only be one agency that will have to find a solution to this, it will of course require the municipality to facilitate multi-disciplinary and inter-territorial cooperation. In many respects, health and social affairs in particular will be a natural partner. It is important that the municipality takes the responsibility that rests on it and that the law also underlines very clearly. This debate has not really given me special challenges or questions, other than that, we will come back to this. Evaluation of the promise of knowledge is part of what we are now doing. This will be one theme. This will give Stortinget the opportunity to come back to. We are concerned that if the price has to be adjusted, our government is willing to adjust it. But our starting point is – as I sensed that a total accumulation will agree – that the course we are at is correct. Then we have to see if there is a need for some adjustments for very special cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e545	The debate on substance is closed. So 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e563	We know through research and reports that we have a school that systematically distinguishes losers and winners. We have a school that in many areas accumulates and actually reinforces the social divisions we have in society. This concerns Norway to a greater extent than other countries we like to compare with, including the other Nordic countries. Some claim that at an early stage in children's lives, based on social, cultural and economic variables, we can see who's going to be winners in the Norwegian school system, and who's going to be losers. We have a lot of grips that need to be taken to ensure increased quality in school. Today, I want to discuss one of the most important criteria for the success of children in school, namely a commitment to strengthening the role of parents in school, in school-home cooperation. This is a topic that has not been much affected in the political debate and on which too little attention has been paid. We know that parents are vitally important for the academic and social development of students at school. I am convinced that investing in strengthening school-home cooperation will lead to improving the quality of school. Many researchers believe that parental support and help are more important for the school motivation than for the social class, the educational level of parents and the intellectual interest of parents. The much-discussed PISA survey shows that we have a school that separates losers and winners, but this survey also shows that an important element of success in school is parental support for children’s schooling. When parents interact with their children, they can give encouragement, show their interest in the progress of their children, and generally show their commitment to how the children are doing, both inside and outside the school. A key objective of public policy must therefore be to support parents, especially those with little education, in order to strengthen them in interaction with both children and with schools, in ways that can improve children’s learning. We have numbers and some research in this area. We know that parents and teachers have to play on the same team to make the student the best possible success in school. I would argue that this has been a neglected area under the former bourgeois government, and I believe that this must be an area that needs to be high on the agenda of the new red-green government. Only with a closer school-home collaboration will we be able to create a school that is available for our students, adapted to each student, and that can ensure that our children succeed in school. All parents must be seen as a resource in the lives of children and as an important partner in the training of children. The parents must be on the team. All parents want their children the best, but many do not know how to contribute. Also, many do not know that they are wanted and needed in the training of their children. We need to have a resource focus, not a problem-oriented focus. Parents must become active and be used as a resource in their children’s lives, not as a barrier to learning. Cooperation with parents in school needs to be strengthened. The students have to experience that they have to communicate the same types of impulses and values from school and from home. One important goal of helping to address this to debate in the Storting is that I believe that such cooperation will improve the school and the learning of our children. In working together at home, we need to grasp the diversity and meet it. It must not be over-focused, as it has been, on problems. An OECD report of 1997 concludes that parents who are engaged, interested and supportive in the child’s training promote the child’s school performance. More commitment to cooperation is positive for both students, parents and teachers. Follow-up of homework and talking around the dinner table are helpful for the students at school. We know that parents are absent from cooperation, which is perceived as problematic. This is human. We know that the school also has difficulties dealing with parents who do not automatically function as the school's extended arm. Teachers work best with those who are equal to themselves, we know. The attitudes towards learning and school that parents convey to their children are invaluable. That means that the good teacher can never succeed if you don't have your parents on the team. There is no instance that affects the children as much as their parents do. The parents act as a filter around the children. The impression is coloured by the attitudes of the parents. It is that the apple does not fall far from the trunk. The most important thing is to support parents’ educational skills, such as reading and discussion, and social skills. Strengthening the mastering skills of children at home is a positive contribution to school learning. Children and young people get the most out of school, personally and socially if their parents show a clear interest in how they are doing and what they are doing at school. In order for this to be done as far as possible, the school must facilitate parental participation. This is supported by research, including all types of knowledge that the school imparts. In a large study on reading in school, the main conclusion of researchers is that parents can be encouraged and advised to give their children more support and help. Schools and parents need to cooperate on this. So this is one of the most important criteria for success in reading at school. The empowerment of teachers in home-school cooperation was not a priority in the introduction of Reform 97, and this area is also very weak in teacher training today. School-home cooperation is a topic that is not affected by teacher training. The emphasis should be on empowering teachers to facilitate good cooperation between school and home. We know that the key areas of student well-being, learning and behaviour are strongly influenced by the teacher. This should mean that if cooperation between home and school is to have an impact on the student, it should be based on the teacher's competence. This is important to get into teacher training. Many teachers, in fact, believe that parents have little chance of participating in real cooperation, and we know that it is the most resourceful parents who dominate cooperation in school. These are patterns that have been identified and, as we know, exist, but it should – and it can – change. Parents do not work together – as I said before – which is perceived as problematic. Research has shown that teachers cooperate with parents who are equal to themselves, but when the inequality comes in, it becomes problematic. And where there was to be best cooperation, there would be the worst cooperation. I want to challenge State Council Djupedal to see how the Council of State can strengthen home-school cooperation in teacher training. 30 years of research in the United States shows that greater family involvement in children’s learning is essential for achieving high-quality education and a safe training environment for each student. Almost 90 pst. by the differences in 8th-class mathematics are explained by the absence, varied reading material at home and TV sitting. These are elements over which parents have all – or great – influence. Studies also show that the teacher believes that strengthening the role of parents in the learning of children is the priority of public education policy. This must be taken into account. As the interpellant in the previous case, Ine Marie Eriksen, pointed out, we know that too many parents and children are struggling. They feel that they don't get the support and help they need in school. We have to put in the help at an early stage, if we see that our kids need it. In Norway, we have had the mentality that we should wait and see for too long. It's been the idea that the students are going to mature to learn mathematics and Norwegian. There has been a so-called ostrich policy where politicians have stuck their heads in the sand and just waited for things to go over. While we've been waiting, many children have become victims in a system. It has ended that the children have lost basic knowledge and experienced the so-called sweatserost principle – they have so many holes in basic competence that they do not get a mastery feeling. The good teacher never succeeds unless the parents are on the team. It is our responsibility to ensure a system that follows this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e609	Strengthening home-school cooperation is a high priority for this government. I support representative Lena Jensen in the fact that parents have a very important role to play in relation to students' professional and social development, and that parents are a very important resource for the school. I am pleased that the representative is raising the debate. I am committed to strengthening the opportunities for parents to participate in school and to providing their children with professional support. We know that parents have different assumptions about this. Measures that can help to balance these differences will be an important theme in our work on the upcoming social and educational challenge. The Government intends to send this notification in December 2006. But if we are to succeed in this, we must invest in several arenas at the same time. In the Principles of Training, Part II of the Knowledge Commitment Apprenticeship Board, the Government places great emphasis on the responsibility of the school and the apprenticeship company for developing the social competences of the student, apprentice and teacher candidates, motivation for learning and learning strategies. The educational poster, which is part of this, stresses that schools and apprenticeships should facilitate cooperation with the home and ensure parental/trainee co-responsibility in the school. The primary responsibility for child education and learning lies here. Their commitment is of great importance to children's motivation and learning outcomes. The cooperation between home and school is central to creating both good learning conditions for the individual and a good learning environment in the group and in the school. Cooperation between school and home is a mutual responsibility, but the school shall take the initiative and facilitate cooperation. The Education Act, the Law and the Education Board provide the basis for cooperation, and parents/supervisors have a real opportunity to influence the learning work of their own children, both professionally and socially. Home-school cooperation is regulated in Chapter 11 of the Training Act Body for User Participation in School, as well as in the Regulation of the Training Act, Chapter 20 The Parental Committee for Primary School. Cooperation between home and school is already an important area for this government through the Parental Committee for Primary School. FUG is an important advisory body of the Ministry of Knowledge in matters relating to home-school cooperation. In their out-of-school activities to parents with children in primary school, they take care of their parents' interests in school. Just because we see the importance of the work of the Parental Committee in this area, we have set up a group to look at a strengthening of the role of the FUG. This work will be completed by the end of June. The government will return to Stortingen in the fall session following the case. In a short time, the ministry will send out a brochure to all the country's parents, providing information on the promise of knowledge. In this context, we have invited FUG to provide ten advice to parents on how to support the schooling of children. These I think will be well received. The framework plan for teacher training today focuses well on the importance of close and mutual cooperation between home and school. The framework for general teacher training includes: students shall: learn how to establish active and positive cooperation with the home and with community knowledge of child-growth conditions today, family structures, the role of the family in a modern society and the importance of school-home cooperation Teacher training institutions and schools are responsible for providing concrete content to the framework plan. Home-school cooperation must be given great attention in teacher training. NOKUT's mid-term evaluation of general teacher training shows that the principals and school owners demand the competences of newly educated teachers such as home-school collaboration, parental conversations, conference hours and parental meetings. The government will present the final conclusions to the Stortinget. Another educational offer that the Government expects will lead to improved home-school cooperation is the so-called rector's school. This master’s education in school management is currently established at four institutions around the country. It concerns the University of Oslo, the University of Tromsø, the University of Agder and the University of Sogn and Fjordane. Since 2002, these four have cooperated in the provision of continuing training services in the field of education management. I assume that in the education of tomorrow's school leaders the importance of establishing and caring for close cooperation between home and school is highlighted. Here is the key to strengthening students' professional and social well-being. The first coal is graduated in just over a year. The Government considers that an evaluation of this master’s training should be undertaken with a view to identifying the importance of home-school cooperation in this training. School leaders around Norway have to signal clear, positive attitudes towards home-school cooperation. It is a fact that if you want a permanent change in behavior in an organization, it must ultimately be firmly anchored in the leadership layer. The teaching staff at each school needs management not only to value their efforts but also to actively contribute to the sustainable priority of home-school cooperation. What measures are useful for food, however, can vary from school to school. The teaching role has been under attack from many teams for a long time. Employers make great demands on the adaptability and flexibility of each teacher. I am convinced that the teachers in general see the parents of the children as a significant resource in the pupils’ education process. However, there must be a reasonable balance between the demands and expectations of the school owners, the school managers and, in particular, the parents' group for each teacher and their overall willingness to give the teacher the role. It is not just students and parents who are entitled to be valued – the key in this context is mutual respect. A measure The Government has great faith in is the Education Directorate’s ‘Project Educational Assistance’ plan. It starts in the autumn of 2006 and lasts for two years, with a budget of 10 million. kr. The project has its background in the Soria Moria Declaration. It is explicitly stated here that the purpose of homework is to contribute to social relaxation, and it is noted that increasing hours of initial training should also provide room for homework. The project shall: provide an overview of ongoing homework and, if appropriate, evaluation of this exercise, tests and evaluation of homework at all levels of initial training,contribute to the dissemination of experience in good model learning aids; The tests on homework that we are now undertaking should involve different types of school and steps, be different and have different helpers. There is a clear need to get an overview of the already existing services in developing more knowledge of learning aids. Key questions in the work on homework will be: What are the characteristics of the provision of teaching aids currently available in Norwegian schools in terms of organisation, staff, content and target groups?To what extent is there a link between different organisational models for teaching aids and the results achieved?Can teaching help be an appropriate tool in reducing the social reproduction of children at school?What can be the consequences of different models of teaching aids for cooperation between home and school and parents in their schooling? As part of the ‘Project Training Aid’, the Directorate-General for Education will monitor local trials of parental schools. This is an offer made by some schools, by giving parents increased competence to support the schooling of children. Here parents can get to know today’s school, the importance of their own role in the school of children, as well as knowledge of how homework and other support for their own children’s schooling should be carried out. In this context, it is also necessary to mention a project undertaken by the National Centre for Mathematics in the training. That's where they invite parents to school, so that parents learn to be safer in the real world. The project takes parents seriously and is an example of how to help with homework through the parent group. The government is committed to ensuring that parents have a strong connection with the school and that individual schools ensure that parents feel included. They need to be informed and encouraged to contribute positively to children’s schooling. If we are to succeed in creating lasting changes in Norwegian society, children's environment of growth and education are the gateway itself. I share the interpellant’s view of the role of parents in the schooling of children. This means that our government is facilitating many different ways – which I have now gone through in the answer to this interview – to strengthen the role of parents in school. The experience that the interpellant also refers to, and the knowledge that we have about this, shows that the results for the children are also improved by the involvement of the parents. It is an important experience to take on board further work on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e691	I would like to thank an engaged State Council. I would like to thank the Council of State for showing, through its response, that he is taking seriously home-school cooperation. All I can do is take off my hat and go on maternity leave and feel that the home-school-cooperation of the new red-green government is safe. The Council of State stresses that this government is looking at the strengthening of school-home cooperation and that this has a high priority in this government. He is committed to strengthening parents' ability to participate in school. I am very pleased that the Council of State stresses that this is a theme that will be addressed in the big message of social embalming and education that the Government has announced will be coming to the autumn. I am pleased that all the measures that the Council of State has put in place are in progress and under development. The Council of State was also involved in the role of FUG – something I did not have in my introduction. The Council of State concluded that an evaluation of how to strengthen the role of the FUG is being carried out and that these can support children and their parents’ influence in school. I am also pleased with the answer given by the Council of State in relation to what he wants to do in teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e704	This is a very important debate, because the relationship between school and home is a very important axis for improving the quality of children's well-being and education. This means that there are many different measures that can move in the right direction here. It is very important that we underline the importance of this in the context of the Knowledge Lift. It is also important to underline the importance of this in the evaluation of general teacher training. As in very many other circumstances, one thing is law and order and what is actually in the letter of the law, while the reality in school is another. It is therefore important to stress that parents have a role to play in this and that the school should be entitled to have a role for parents. If the school does not do this automatically, parents may feel that they are not included in the everyday life of the school. That's why it's very important to establish that your parents have and are going to have a place in school. That's because this is important for school, but not least for children's learning at school. Experience has shown that those with different supportive parents have consistently improved school performance. This is a very important experience to bring with it. When our government is paying for homework, this is also to complement home-school cooperation. Many of us have probably been sitting with the pod and trying to drive with homework. At the same time, within the disciplines we may not be so competent in – at least when the children get a little bigger – that our own knowledge of different things is not good enough to provide qualified help. Therefore, teaching aid is a new arena, where both parents and children are to be given the opportunity to receive more qualified help, thus strengthening home-school cooperation, but not least the student's performance in school. That means that we'll come back to a lot of different components in different questions we want to present to the Storing. But our basic attitude is exactly the one that the interpellant used in its interpellation, namely that we want to emphasize in many different ways the importance of parental participation in school. It's positive for children's learning, positive for school, and not least positive for parents. In fact, it is quite extraordinary fun to participate in children’s growth and education — also in the arena that the school is. The school shall not be a closed body for the family. On the contrary, the school should be part of this wide circle around the family.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e715	While parents in the past were concerned that their children were not good enough for school, many parents today wonder if the school is good enough for their children. Parents are a much more demanding group than before. Many teachers feel insecure in meeting their parents, and many parents are dissatisfied with the influence they have on their children’s everyday school life. Other parents have negative school experiences themselves and have been offended by authoritarian teachers when they were school students themselves. These parents may tell their children that they should not bow their heads to the teacher, and not listen to what they have to say. All parents need more knowledge about today’s school to be supportive of their children in school everyday life. Discipline in school has been a topic in the public discussion for a longer time. I think discipline is a lot about winning parents' trust in school. Teachers no longer have authority by virtue of their formal position. No, they have to build up a personal authority, and the way to personal authority goes through the trust of parents. The parents are no longer terrified for the teacher to call and say something negative about their child. If the teacher calls today with such a message, the shooting is often directed back with questions about what is the school's responsibility in all of this. The teachers have largely become targets because of what is wrong in our society. In the work on increasing parental cooperation, teachers as a group should not be suspended again. Therefore, we must work to increase personal authority for each teacher. If the parents do not trust the teacher, the students will not show respect to the teacher either – and it is required for the teaching to work better. Teachers are well educated to talk and cooperate with children, but talking to their parents has been largely absent in teacher training. If we are to help teachers work better with their parents, we need to strengthen this. The school has changed a lot since the parents themselves went there. Therefore, it is important that we get what many schools have good experience with, a pre-school offer for some parents a few nights a week before the children start school, to clarify parental responsibility and give parents the opportunity to be supportive of their children from school. If parents are to take more responsibility, the school must facilitate it through conscious work. Researcher Thomas Nordahl says that cooperation between school and home is characterized by a lot of information and little dialogue. Some parents experience the school’s attitude as demeaning and uninviting — parents interfere with relationships that they do not have the right to. To the extent that the school does not take parents seriously, it helps to reduce parental responsibility for their children’s schooling. Although formal parental representation and FAU exposure are very important, we must never forget that parental exposure is primarily about direct communication and cooperation between the individual teacher and the individual parent about the individual school child.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e730	I find it interesting to note how SV's staging representatives communicate with the Swedish Governments through interpellations in this room. However, given that home-school cooperation is not mentioned in the SV party programme, I understand the SV representative’s need for clarification from the SV State Council. I would nevertheless like to thank the inter-pellant for raising a question that the Progress Party has been fighting for for many years. And thanks come despite the fact that over the same years SV has voted down the proposals of the Progress Party in Stortinget to strengthen home-school cooperation. I fully agree with the interpellant that it is important that the cooperation between home and school is developed in a positive way, and that parents are seen as a resource instead of a scourge. Unfortunately, it may have been that one at some schools feels demanding parents as a nuisance, and that one really is most pleased with the parents who almost cannot be heard from. However, it is a challenge that the interpellant points out that absent parents often have a negative impact on the performance of children. In this context, it is important that the Storting supports the measures already taken to raise parental awareness of children’s schooling. The parental committee for primary school is an important measure. Unfortunately, FUG has too little resources to meet the increasing progress of engaged parents. An idea the Council of State can take with it is, in other words, to strengthen the work of the FUG towards parents and extend the mandate of the FUG. Active parents are another organisation that aims to help parents better understand their rights to children’s school, their rights to influence and influence, and how they can best help their children through demanding schooling. This organisation does not receive a single crown of public support, so that another idea the Council of State can take with it is to help Active Parents with a few dollars in operating aid, as the Progress Party proposed in the 2006 budget. Otherwise, it turns out that user administrators are a very good idea to involve parents in children’s schooling. The evaluation of a pilot project with Larvik user manager shows a very positive result list, and I would like to clarify: only positive results. The project is now stopped by the county of Westfold because the experimental activity has to be limited. Thus, a very successful project is being grounded because of the limitations of the Training Act and the state’s recent experimental refusal. A third advice to the Council of State will thus be to amend the Training Act to allow parental boards. If we are to facilitate cooperation between school and home, the premises for cooperation need to be changed. Schools that have taken parental cooperation seriously can show very many positive results, while other schools still resist parental exposure. The problem the interpellant addresses is far too important for it to end up with nice words and little action. I hope, therefore, that the Council of State can refer to concrete actions during the autumn session of the notified notification, which can contribute to concrete and practical results.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e747	This is an important debate. Interactions between school and home, master programmes, homework and other interventions are important measures. The home and the stimulation it gives to the individual student are enormously crucial to the learning outcomes. I stand here with a headline from Tønsberg’s magazine, where the Minister of Knowledge also announces the message he has mentioned, and it has the headline: ‘It’s alarming that the students’ family background means so much’ – it’s a quote from Djupedal. I'll almost say it's alarming if the Minister of Knowledge hasn't brought this all along. Family, growth and the social background are central to school learning. I'm talking here from my own experience. There is a great variation in how teachers themselves deal with the role. The fact that they get more ballast is very important. I think it's important not to shoot at the teachers. What also strikes you when you have been a parent to some students who have gone through the Norwegian school is how much variation there is in the parental exposure, just as Huitfeldt's representative was in the room. What you see is that the parents who are active, they become even more active, and the parents who fall outside from the beginning, they fall even more outside. It's a big challenge for the school to get to the parents that it actually applies, because you don't have any coercive means at home. The Norwegian school reproduces social differences, we've heard a lot about that. The evaluation of Reform 97 confirms this. The single school has not been able to even out the differences. The representative Jensen said that the previous government had done little. I will protest strongly against that. I perceive that this is in and of itself the promise of knowledge in many ways. It's about putting more emphasis on basic skills, about focusing on adapted training and clear curricula, and it's about learning outcomes in school, and by hopefully smoothing out the differences and giving students equal opportunities. This is precisely why national tests are needed at individual level. This is not measured at the average student level. Nor do you give the homes and those around the student insight by having national samples at the average level. Here you have to go down on a single life level. That's just the point. That's also why you have to make clear demands in school, I think. It affects, among other things: in requirements for study competence. Here the previous government did quite a lot. We hope that the weakening of the signals from the current government does not go far too far. Clear demands for students indicate what the school expects of them. It's taking the student seriously. When you can start measuring the extent to which the students reach the requirements, you give the school a means to get to the students who get hung up and cannot follow, at an early stage. It gives the best opportunity to get to the weak students and those who come from non-follow-up homes. Here I think the feedback to the individual students must be very specific, if you're going to have the hope of getting the parents that apply. The provision of tools to provide concrete feedback, hopefully, could lead some parents to wake up, and hopefully this will also lead to those students who do not have parents who are awake, being able to address their own challenges through cooperation with the school. For every student you manage to go up, in relation to the race that maybe home conditions add up to, you've won a pretty big victory. Here's a big problem ahead of us. We look forward to the communication that the Council of State has announced, and to an active debate on this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e762	This interpellant too deserves tribute for her focus on an important topic. Over 100 years ago, Amalie Schram wrote some heartbreaking books about the Hellenic people. She portrayed social distress and injustice in ancient Norway, long before the oil wealth took us. In her world the poor and troubled had no hope of getting out of misery. The worst thing was that life's problems seemed to go into inheritance. Unfortunately, we see similar features as Schram portrays, even in our time. It's true, as the interpellant says, that the parents have a big impact on the students' relationship with the school. Too many children take over their parents' social problems. Besides the family, a strong and good public school is a place to give all children what is needed to survive in life. School is a comprehensive arena for education and education. At the same time, it is also a social policy arena to give all children, regardless of their family background, a good and common basis for success as independent people in society. It is therefore very serious when research shows that, on the contrary, the school continues, even reinforces, the social differences in society. How serious it is, it becomes even clearer when we see that one fifth of the students leave primary school without being able to write, read and calculate completely. Anyone who cannot read properly when he or she leaves primary school has problems coping with education and the labour market. Anyone who does not have a basic sense of numbers will have problems both in the workplace and in everyday life, and will also not be able to follow the social debate. It is not difficult to agree with the interpellant that one of the solutions to the challenge is better cooperation between home and school. Studies show that parental support and help are far more important for school motivation than social, family or parent education. Therefore, an important task for the school will be to build safe and good relationships with all parents. The teachers and the school have to be better at talking to and much less to the parents. Another important point mentioned is that there is a clear link between school information and the experience of discussions and participation in school. Those who are satisfied with the information experience greater participation. Therefore, good information can be an important basis for discussion and participation, while also providing good information. One can get a larger parental exposure even about the content of the subjects if it is put up so that it becomes interesting for the parents. Important prerequisites are that it has to happen in an inclusive social climate, confident that everyone has something to give, and in a language all parents understand. An increased commitment from parents to the subjects will serve both parents themselves, the children and the teachers. At the same time, we know that the quality of parental cooperation unfortunately varies from school to school and from parent to parent. Schools therefore need to develop forms of cooperation and meetings that do not scare away parents who are insecure and unsafe from school. The cooperation system laid down in applicable laws and regulations provides a good framework for dialogue between home and school. The challenge is to make the system work in practice, daily and for everyone. At the same time, the Christian People's Party believes that opportunities must also be opened to find new meeting places or channels for participation. In this way, parental cooperation in school can be revitalised. We believe that if anyone finds that they want to create other types of cooperation bodies than those we have today, they should have a chance to do so. In several schools, we know that cooperation has just been vitalised by the fact that schools and parents themselves have established local areas for cooperation. There is a particular challenge in getting good and close cooperation between home and school in foreign language students. The level of education among foreign-language representatives, parents’ ability to help with homework and communication difficulties and cultural difficulties are some of the reasons. At the same time, these parents have many and diverse interests and competences that the school can benefit from and to a greater extent see as a resource for the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e779	It is very nice that Lena Jensen has addressed this issue of cooperation between home and school. Here it is certainly an area where there are great opportunities for further development and improvement. Actually, this cooperation was going to be totally seaworthy. The school's objective paragraph states: ‘The primary school shall, in cooperation and understanding with the home, assist in providing pupils with: [[...]] It's a clear sign that it's the parents who have the primary responsibility, while the school is supposed to help, and it's the school that's the department. It is good to hear the State Council's assurances that this government will give home-school cooperation a high priority. I think the Council of State expressed itself this way: I am committed to strengthening parents' opportunities for participation in school and to providing children with professional support. We know that parents have different assumptions in this regard, and measures that can help balance these differences will be an important theme in our work on the forthcoming Social Equalisation and Education paper. It is good that the announced big message for the autumn will take up this relationship. It's very central. It is necessary to put in place measures that can provide opportunities for all parents to support their children. In this context, many parents are an unused resource. After all, research shows, to say the least, that parents' interest in school is crucial to the performance of children. Social differences are accentuated in school. It is therefore quite right that measures should not be targeted only at families that are motivated by school. I know that FUG representatives have taken up the topic and asked: How can we empower parents to be supportive of their children? There must also be requirements for parents. Perhaps there are similarities between parental involvement on the one hand and joint commitments on the other. Cooperation must in any case be binding on both parties, both at home and at school. As mentioned above, there are major inequalities in different families. We parents draw our story with us and transfer it to our children. Those who have a good relationship with school from their own time at school are strengthening it. In families where there's a bad relationship with the school, it's going to make a difference. So, unfortunately, the school is involved in increasing the differences between the social groups, between different families. The school people should gradually become more aware of that. It brings me to the teachers' responsibility. I'm going to wake up well to try to define this group, but pretty much one might say that there are people who through life have had a good relationship with the school. It brings us to a simple truth: it's easiest to cooperate with them a similar seaman. Teachers work best with people who like school. It's completely understandable, but it doesn't last. For teachers, it is important to listen to parents’ feedback. They are the closest ones to show how the student absorbs the teaching and can explain the needs of individual children. So here it's important that school and parents meet and that they're open from both sides. There's a lot of tension in this field. Perhaps parents and teachers should first and foremost make a statement of expectations between themselves — agree on the arenas, so to speak. Parents and teachers each have their own field of competence. It's important to clarify. The goal of both parties is to support the student, who must always be in the center.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e807	There are some basic prerequisites for this debate on the relationship between home and school, and that is that you have basic respect for the fact that both family and school are important institutions in building society and that they must meet with respect. There is no doubt that for many years – and I think especially the socialist parties – we have tended to weaken the family as an institution and to overburden the school. And when you overload the school, it could be that the school sugars and blesses a little bit. Let me now take today's debate constructively and say that you want to balance it, so you can see that the school is important, and that the home and family are important. In order to meet what is at the heart of the interpellation, namely that students should feel good and they should be motivated to reach out to learn something, it is essential, first of all, that you have what Economist said about Finland a few weeks ago, that the answer to success was: teachers, teachers, teachers. Teachers, too, must feel basic professional security and must feel secure as adults. It's absolutely crucial. Then it is clear that since the situation in Norwegian homes is different from how to help, for example: In mathematics -- because we've had a generation that we've almost learned -- I think the grips that were taken by the government that I put in, that started to organise good homework, are important measures. Then I will return to the previous debate. Nordvoll School, at Trosterud, Groruddalen, Oslo, is a school working with autists. What's the school special about? They have professionally strong, safe and competent teachers and an unusually close home-school collaboration. They both have, but depending on the two prerequisites that you have mutual respect, and that you have also made sure to build strength, so that it becomes energy out of cooperation and not the opposite. When you study school in Norway, it exists – and I have nothing against it in many cases – as a school in a municipality somewhere in the country with 10,000 inhabitants. But I would like to recommend the Council of State to take a study trip to the capital. I have two examples: Mortensrud School, Oslo South, with 93 pst. foreign-speaking, minority-speaking, students who have put an enormous amount of effort into mobilising parents to set up, and get results from mobilising parents and getting them to set up. And so, for that matter, Skøyen school on another side of Oslo, where parents are so engaged and motivated that they take over the teaching, so that teachers can go to Finland and get inspiration. Now let's at least work out the examples where you're trying to build each other up and do it. And then there's probably a lot of other examples. But these examples are important, because the examples systematized provide cultural insight, they provide organisational insight, and they lead to school policy insight. This has not been said as an argument against a single research result that exists, but it is important to spread the stories that show that things actually are useful, that show that things work, and that they show that one stands for something that is good and safe, that creates something. It's a basic concept that I've at least learned, and that's the concept of respect. ‘Respect’ is a crucial concept. Teachers must meet respect, and teachers must show respect. They must show respect for students, and they must show respect for parents. But the key to not even feeling that teachers are being taken for the nth time is that they also show respect, for example. in municipal policy language, that they are addressed as teachers and that a principal is a teacher and not a manager of the holding. There's a lot of soulless language in Kommune-Norway right now. There's a lot of unsuspecting language that triggers people so it really stands by, a language that almost takes the identity away from those you expect to do the job that's at the heart of the interpellation. Then we, representing different parties here, can take this home with us and take the initiative to learn locally in Norway – with all the decentralisation of Norwegian school, for which the Left supports and I am also in favour – a wise discussion and a wise conversation about the contents of school, which is not perceived by the teachers as coming enough a supervisor to sit on the shoulder and watch out: what are you doing wrong today – that it becomes the wise debate about the contents of school that I feel has been the purpose of the interpellation debate here today. Then you might just create these basic premises of mutual respect, which means that you build each other up and strengthen the authority. So safe adults are a prerequisite, whether the safe adult is to be a teacher or to be a parent. Then the Council of State has shown a number of good practical measures to build it on. I believe that, and I'd like to cheer on that. But we need to rediscover a debate, and we need to have a debate that also passes through the pedocrats' professional language politically, where a strange mix of pedagogical and bureaucratic expressions is being made. Then there'll be a sauce that most Norwegian citizens can't get through.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e826	It's an important topic the interpellant addresses, and it's been discussing for a long time. That was the very background of the Knowledge Lift, which is the major school reform to be introduced from the harvest. As the Council of State rightly points out, ‘Project Educational Assistance’ is a very important part of the possibility of providing good ballast for all students. It was a project that was started with a grant from the previous government, which has been followed up and crammed from the current government. Combining good teaching aids and ensuring committed, competent and motivated teachers who have ambitions on behalf of their students may be one of the most important things we can do. For too long, we've lived in a kind of illusional world when it comes to Norwegian school. Not only did many people think that we kept goals purely qualitative, but many also thought that the Norwegian school of unity was an important instrument to balance social differences. Some of us have long had our doubts about the sustainability of these truths, but I think it came as a pretty powerful surprise to the vast majority to be documented that the Norwegian so-called single school not only continues social inequalities, but deepens and reinforces them. At the same time, it has been demonstrated that pupils from low-level families systematically come out worse than those with high-level parents. In addition to international studies that clearly demonstrate that Norwegian students are poor or intermediate in knowledge and skills, it was precisely research into the social inequalities that was driving the work of the previous government to adopt the great promise of knowledge. Not to make demands, not to create cultures for learning and knowledge, is to fail those students who need the most school. When accident cultures have been created over many years, where professional demands are often exchanged for rest in the class, we also insist that the students receive professional replenishment from home. In this way, we privatize learning, and the school fails one of its most important societal tasks. A little tabloid can be said that some students have such a strong home background that they could almost do without school. The then Education Centre, the current Directorate of Education, conducted a study in 2003 to identify how the level of education of mother and father, the gender and ethnic background of pupils had an impact on the characteristics of the 10th grade leaving in 2002. The conclusion was that all of these factors had significant significance, but that nothing was more important to succeed than having well-trained parents. The parenting committee for primary school, FUG, commented on the time of the study with something that should be suitable for creating an alarm clock. They pointed to different studies that showed that the school works best with parents who have high education and good experience from their own schooling. The school is not able to involve all the other parents, where close cooperation between home and school would really have an impact on students’ performance. From the United Kingdom, it has been seen that the introduction of standardised tests has been able to involve the so-called'resourceless' parents more to some extent, because they have suddenly got an arena where they can talk to the school, and they have got something handy to talk about with the school. The concerns of FUG also tell us something about how the school does not smooth out, but reproduces, deepens and reinforces differences between students due to different social backgrounds. I want to withdraw the threads to the big message ‘Culture for Learning’, which provides the basis for the Knowledgelift. This underlines the need for schools to benefit from their local counterparts and the community in order to maximise the benefits of learning for individual students. At the same time, it is stressed that parents and superiors are those of the school's most important students. The previous government therefore went in to give schools great local freedom to organise cooperation between home and school, without wanting to bind cooperation to special forms or formal bodies. The majority of the population wanted to maintain the legal forms of cooperation. But I still think it is important to avoid rigid cooperation solutions becoming a sleep cushion for the further development of home-school cooperation. We have many examples of detailed provisions limiting rather than promoting the objective pursued. Personally, I trust that each municipality and school, in cooperation with parents and supervisors, is able to find good and local solutions for information, discussion and dissemination of knowledge between school and home. The evaluation of Reform 97 pointed to the large social differences in schools. The final conference of the evaluation also pointed out that students who, for various reasons, need the most time and help to benefit from the school are those who lose the most when the school neither demands nor has a good home-school collaboration. I hope that the Council of State in its further work on this issue will address Chapter 11, the School and its co-workers, in the message ‘Culture for Learning’ and follow up on the constructive solutions that were outlined there.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e847	This is a very important debate, and the interpellant deserves praise for taking it up. I allow myself to begin with an experience far away from school and school problems. I heard a talk a few years ago at the Academy of Sciences by one of our leading cancer researchers. He explained the results of the recent research, and when he was going to summarize, he said: People often ask me what to do to avoid cancer. To that I only have one answer, dear hearers, you have to choose your parents carefully. It's kind of the same logic that's been going through this debate. Parents are the factor determining whether children succeed or not. The interpellant even went so far that she said: The good teacher can never succeed if the parents are not on the team. Fortunately, that is wrong! There are a lot of examples that even children of school age who don't have any of their parents alive have been quite successful in school. Fortunately, there are also examples of children who have not had an adult environment in support of some aspects of their home environment, including school success. thanks to good teachers who have understood it and who have therefore been involved in the role of support player and as ‘reserve parent’. We're supposed to be happy about that. This is one of the reasons why it is vital to maintain high quality objectives for teacher training, the selection of those who will become teachers. The importance of having high quality goals for the school is precisely because it will always be the case that children have different resources at home, and the school has to meet that challenge. We don't have to go so far that we turn the perspective and start falling back on the idea that, after all, it's parents' resources that are the determining factor. Then there's a perspective that's missing from this debate, which amazes me. There are many people who believe that we have a schooling duty in this country. We don't. We have a training obligation, and it is clear that parents have an obligation to care for their children in accordance with what the law says. There are no legal obstacles for parents to solve this task even if they can prove that they can do so through home schooling. Similarly, through many international conventions, Norway has committed itself to respecting the right of parents to choose school for their children. It didn't strip the interpellant with a single word – funny enough. I have previously tried to motivate Norwegian education ministers to take an interest in and initiate comparative research on the relationship between schools that parents have established themselves, take the initiative and take responsibility for, and how the learning process takes place there, and the public school, among others. Because I'm sure there's something to learn there. There is certainly something to learn where parents, when a primary school is closed, assume the responsibility of themselves to try to continue that school. There is certainly something to learn from the most multicultural schools in this country, St. Sunniva School here in Oslo and St. Paul School in Bergen. There are no primary schools in Norway with a wide range of students with different ethnic backgrounds, different social backgrounds and different cultural backgrounds. Why does the interpellant forget it? She herself stated in an interview a short time ago that the type of schools actually accentuate intolerance and increase prejudice between people. Where in the world did she get that? In fact, Norwegian school research lacks something elemental here. The party to which the inter-pellant and the Council of State belong has made the future of its party leader in political life dependent on the establishment of a sufficient number of private kindergartens in this country, including: on the initiative of parents. Why is this a white spot on the map when you get to school?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e864	I would like to thank you for a good and meaningful debate, and for the many different perspectives drawn up in this debate. It is important that we get closer school-home collaboration in order to succeed in creating a school that is available for our students and that is adapted to the individual student. Closer school-home collaboration will lead many more students to feel mastery and to feel successful in school and their lives. A lot of perspectives have been taken up. The aim of promoting this interpellation in the United Kingdom today is to look at the interdependence between school and parents and that it is important to strengthen school-home cooperation in order to achieve the good results. I also underlined in my interview that it is important to take a starting point that all parents are a resource. No matter what kind of cultural background you have, no matter what language you speak, and no matter who you are, you're a resource in your child's life. A lot of parents need help to see it. They also need help to see how they can contribute better in school-home cooperation in order to develop the student's skills in school. As Christian People's Party Ola T. Lånke said, it's important that we find space and space that there are systems that work, that it's not just talking. I'm glad the government says this isn't just going to stick with words. It is important to have a constructive and good dialogue between school and home. But, as the representative Dørum also said in his speech, there is a lot of good school-home cooperation. There are a lot of good teachers and a lot of good examples, which I hope you can draw out in the further process, to show that it benefits and shows that it actually works. SV has always been concerned with strengthening school-home cooperation. What really surprises me in this debate is the attitude of the Progress Party. The Progress Party once again puts itself on the sideline of the debate, and attacks SV so that we do not support the proposals made by the Progress Party. The proposals of the Progress Party include, inter alia: That you should have parented school. That's not the kind of parent exposure we want. We want a clear distinction between what parents can and cannot, and that we support this cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e879	Let me thank the interpellant for raising this important theme. Let me also thank you for many good contributions from the pulpit on the importance of parental exposure in school. It's true, as a lot of people have said, that this is a very important arena, and our government is going to make sure to strengthen this differently. Let me also agree with Mr Dørum's consideration of the impeccable language that is often used in some bureaucratic interpretations. Let me also say that I agree with the example he has, and say that it is now over that something is called the growth centre in Norway, that we go back and call it what it is, schools and kindergartens. I'm annoyed by these growing-up centres that I'm now looking around in Norway. Let's use the good language we have, properly and not camouflage it. Let me also tell the representative, Gundersen, that reproduction of social inequality, we are addressing our government. It's true that we know this, but it's striking to see how important parental cooperation is to avoid this. What you could say is that the school can and should play a more active and better role than what we have done today. This applies to many governments, so this is a collective responsibility on our society, that we haven't been capable enough to get the school to become a tool for social equality. We'll see if we can go through a debate and have a lot of suggestions in the big news that we're going to bring up to Christmas. We think there are questions about this axis, which the interpellant has now addressed, about which there will be an important discussion, about parents in school cooperation. We have many good examples from Norwegian schools that are successful in this. Let me end with an example from Sweden. The inclusion minister and I have visited Rinkeby school outside Stockholm. It was interesting to see that a school that was almost a war zone has become an internationally known example of a model school. The change started with the principal contacting his parents and asking them, what do you want with the school? The parents answered three things: we want a good school for our children, so they get work. We want security in children's school, and we want a school that looks pretty. This was a school with largely immigrant students, who had almost failed in everything that is going to fail. Now this school is one of the best professional schools in Sweden and one of the best in Europe in many disciplines, not least in real science. If you ask almost any of the Norwegian parents, I think they'll answer the exact same thing: we want a good school that provides education for our children, so that they get a job and succeed in life. We want a school that provides security around children's growth and life. We want a school that looks pretty, that makes you want to go to school, and that motivates learning. This is probably also part of the answer that the interpellant is really asking for. What should we, as education authorities and societies, do? Yeah, that's this: we're going to have good schools for our kids. That parents have a natural part in school, is also true.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e892	The debate on substance is closed. So 8 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e898	The size should then go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e906	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Ivar Kristiansen on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Right, andproposal No. 5, from Line Henriette Holten Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:16 [[2005-2006]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e930	Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to evaluate the effect of, and the cost of, national salmon fjords established by the Stortinget in the treatment of St.prp. [[2002-2003]] No 79
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e974	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Torbjørn Andersen on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Right, and the proposals No. 3 and 4, by Torbjørn Andersen on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 3 and 4 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e1007	Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, says: ‘The decision requires the Government to refrain from making any proposals that may deprive the municipalities of the land management of the coastal zone.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e1105	During the debate Ketil Solvik-Olsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to resume negotiations with Sweden with a view to establishing a common Norwegian/Swedish Green Certificate Market for the production of power from new renewable energy sources from 1 January 2007 and, as soon as possible after agreement on a negotiated outcome is reached, to promote a legislative proposal for the Stortinget on the establishment of such a market. The certificate market should be based on the bill sent by the Bondevik II Government at its hearing on 24 November 2004.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e1127	The President voted in favour of the proposal and the proposal was therefore adopted. See also new voting, page 2290
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e1137	During the debate, Mr Anundsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals in order to ensure that all secondary school students are entitled to free schooling irrespective of their place of residence, by the autumn of 2006.’» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e1174	In Case No: 7 and 8 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e1195	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? Mr Andersen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e1205	We have conducted a vote that gave a surprising result. If there is a correct number of representatives present in the Chamber, I want to take that vote again. If there are any people who have voted incorrectly, Stortinget has reached a wrong result according to what should be the composition of Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e1212	The President will claim that there is a firm practice that if a representative makes aware that the representative has voted incorrectly, a new vote will be taken. The President cannot see that anyone has notified that they have voted incorrectly. This must be done to the extent that we have the voting, not later. But the president wants to ask if there are any people who are sure they have voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e1215	I'm not sure, but I'm not sure of the opposite either! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e1222	Of course, the President is concerned that the decision of the Storting should be correct. When there has been a request to take the vote again, and it is also admitted that you may have voted incorrectly, although Mr. Klungland can't remember it, the president will ask if there are anyone who will object that we go back to the vote that the President's double vote decided. – No one has opposed the President’s proposal, and we go back to voting on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox During the debate Ketil Solvik-Olsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. An alternative is to vote between this proposal and the vote. The suggestion and setting have been previously referenced. For the sake of order: these are the three government parties behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-05-22-2.ana.ud2118e1235	The President notes that the result of voting is exactly the same, and with the President's double voice the proposal has been adopted. Does anyone require any other word under § 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
