ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e28	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that matters be dealt with as follows: 5 and 6 are dealt with as a whole – and considered adopted. [[See page 2727]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e57	It's been 16 and a half years since the first East Germans hit themselves through the hated wall in Berlin. 9 November 1989 marks a break — or perhaps rather a breakthrough — in history. The new order of time – or disorder – starts here. The Cold War ended, the Soviet Union collapsed like a card house. New states saw the light of day. The European map – but also the Asia map – had to be redrawn. North-South policy also changed dramatically. It was no longer the case that the powers of the United States and the Soviet Union divided the spheres of influence between themselves in Africa. The hope of the future was enormous. Nevertheless, since November 9, 1989, we have experienced a bloodbath in the Balkans, in our own continent. We've had ethnic cleansing in Central Africa and growing terror from new militant groups, which culminated in the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. And we've got a new concept: trafficking. Mafia from post-Soviet areas and the Balkans closes hundreds of thousands of women and children as sex slaves in Europe and now contributes to prostitution being the second largest source of income in international crime. NATO has more than any other organisation in power — it may be a claim — to adapt to both the new map and the new threat images. Today, the Alliance has 26 member countries, and a number of states are integrated into the Partnership for Peace. When both the undersigned and Mr Per Ove Width promoted the Norwegian official position on the Keflavik base and NATO's role in the recent NATO Parliamentary Assembly, after Iceland had raised the matter, who came and supported us? It was Latvia and the Baltic countries, due to the need for NATO presence in the northern regions. It says a lot about the new order of time, which some people might still think is bad. Sixteen and a half years ago, it wasn't even a country. For Norway, transatlantic cooperation is important. As a foreign country in the EU, we have been cut off from the formal discussions on security policy in Europe. Our channel is NATO. There we have both formal and informal influence. It is therefore encouraging that there is a positive will in the alliance to strengthen NATO as an important transatlantic political forum. Indeed, the relationship between NATO and the EU was limited throughout 2005. Of course, some countries wanted to strengthen the EU's own bodies as a European basis for political dialogue between Europe and the United States. However, this is changing, as perhaps the spring Foreign Minister's meeting in NATO showed. For many of the new countries in the east, NATO membership is a way of being integrated into the West, and we also need to understand them in that context. However, invitations to membership are unlikely to be issued at the forthcoming Riga Summit. A unanimous committee here stresses that we will support the Government's view that NATO's door is open, but that membership depends on the country's own reform capacity and will, and that countries need to be assessed on an individual basis. I would like to underline this on an individual basis. Here I believe that there is probably a significant difference between Ukraine and Georgia. Nor should we underestimate the geopolitical nature of Ukraine and its relationship with Russia. It is therefore in Norwegian interest that there is a dialogue with Russia on a closer relationship with NATO for these countries. I think it is right to mention, when discussing the report on NATO in 2005, that Norway has pursued a very active policy to give countries such as Serbia – and, in brackets, Montenegro – and Bosnia-Herzegovina some form of status in relation to NATO. Norway has been the contact embassy in Belgrade during the period, and has, among other things, contributed very strongly to the restructuring of the country's armed forces. It is our embassy in Belgrade, which has therefore been the contact embassy for NATO, which has contributed to constructive development. And this is just the end of a long process in which Norway has been very active, given that these countries also need to be involved in Europe in some way. If you push them away, it can end in a completely different way than we want. I want to give praise to both the current ambassador in Belgrade, Haakon Blankenburg, and the previous one, who is now the OSCE ambassador at the same place. They deserve tribute for the work done in cooperation with the Norwegian authorities. Ros also deserves our NATO ambassador, Kai Eide, for his outstanding work in Kosovo. If we look at the military side of NATO, NATO is still characterized by the fact that some countries are in a process of restructuring the armed forces, and that is not all countries for which this is just as simple. Defence planning is based on the guidelines established by the defence ministers through the so-called Ministerial Guidance. And in order to strengthen NATO’s ability to follow the strategic concept of the alliance, the NATO Council adopted in December 2005 a set of policy guidelines for the further transformation of the alliance. I also think it should be mentioned that the 2002 Prague Capabilities Commitment initiative is important to ensure that NATO has the capacities required by the new threats. Keywords here include: the division of labour between NATO countries, i.e. that they can be complementary, all countries need not have everything; they can work well with other countries on different defence investments. It's also interesting what's happening now with a NATO transport aircraft pool, for example, that several NATO countries can take advantage of. This means that individual countries should also be responsible for specialised capacities. We have in Norway, among others. responsibility for strategic maritime transport. NATO Response Force shall otherwise have full operational capacity by 1 October of this year. It is important – let me add it – that the forces included in the NRF are actively used. This may happen in Afghanistan, where the ISAF extension area attracts robust forces, but it may also be possible to use them in many other places. They were probably also used – as far as I remember – in the humanitarian efforts following the earthquake in Pakistan. Finally, Norway is preparing to participate in the UN operation in Darfur. NATO has agreed to support the African Union in a transitional phase, including: with a staff officer, for it takes some time to assemble a UN force that may be operational. In my opinion, Norway should take its responsibility for this and have staff officers associated with NATO in a transitional phase in Sudan. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e93	A very brief article – there are two cross-political, unanimous settings that are available on the occasion of the communication and the annual report, but I still have a few comments to add. Let me first say that the headline of the settings must be that both NATO seem to be both politically and militarily strengthened out of 2005, as the representative Nybakk also underlined. I also agree with her that the will to strengthen NATO as an important transatlantic forum seems to be strong and positive. When I still want to point to a couple of relationships, it's because I think the occasion is also an opportunity to point to things that will be a challenge in the future. It may seem important for Norway to follow the EU's coordination of European views into NATO. One has not seen so much about this so far – more about politics than about the military. And for the most part, there is no doubt that our defence and security priorities are firmly established. Nevertheless, it will be important to observe how the relationship between the EU and the US within and outside NATO may present us with new challenges in terms of where we have formal and possibly practical influence. Then there are three small relationships that I just want to mention – small and small, they're big challenges. The first is Afghanistan. In the autumn, NATO enters phase 4 in Afghanistan, and you want to increase from 9 000 to 17 000 soldiers. It will also mean that the cooperation between ISAF and Operation Renewing Freedom is getting closer. The two shall have a joint coordination centre in 2007, initially headed by an American. The need for coordination is increasing because operations are particularly dangerous in the south of ISAF and in the east of Operation Enduring Freedom. One must well see in his eyes that it can easily lead us into a situation where the ISAF mission gets sharper. There is no doubt either that the Taliban will do its utmost to test NATO's determination and endurance. This may give us both political and military challenges that we must be prepared to meet. The second point is that it is worrying that only seven of the NATO countries now grant 2 pst. or more of the State budget for defence, when 2 pst. is the agreed objective of the alliance. Here it's a challenge for the whole alliance. The last thing I want to say is that it is also worrying that the political dialogue with Russia seems to be so difficult. This applies both to NATO parliamentarians and to NATO in general. I hope that it will be a bet area for the organization in the time to come, working systematically on how to improve that relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e110	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteurs, both Vallersnes and Nybakk, for doing a very good job in producing what has happened to NATO in 2005. What is now in front of us is further work, and then I just want to refer a little bit from what the Norwegian delegation was doing in the spring session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Paris 26-30. May – not that long ago. I just want to tell you that Norway participated in all committee meetings: in the Political Committee, in the Defence and Security Committee, in the Scientific and Technology Committee, in the Committee on Economic and Security, in the Committee on Civil Security and in the Steering Committee and in the NATO-Russia Committee. The Assembly adopted an opinion on Iran’s nuclear energy policy on the Scientific and Technology Committee. The resolution expresses concern, but still hopes to resolve the conflict by diplomatic means. The Assembly adopted an opinion on the progress made in the work of NATO membership for the countries of the Adriatic – Macedonia, Croatia and Albania – and on the development of Georgia. The session was marked by a strong focus on the Black Sea countries and the South Caucasus. This was true both in plenary and in several committee meetings. The approach to the region and security issues included development of democracy, including legal certainty and corruption prevention, human rights and general development issues, as well as energy and environmental issues. In plenary, Ukraine’s Foreign Minister, Belarus’s opposition leader Milin-kevich, Azerbaijan’s President, Georgia’s President, and the Russian delegation strongly expressed their dissatisfaction with the above-mentioned country’s desired proximity to NATO. Coordination of efforts in Afghanistan was another theme that engaged the assembly. In the view of many people, the main test of NATO’s operational capability in today’s safety picture is the operations. The reports on NATO's operations highlighted the challenge of NATO's current operations outside NATO's territories, as well as NATO's ability to carry out operations. Resource and energy issues were a central component of the meeting of several committees, and a question which would be natural to follow up further on the Norwegian side. Likewise, it was reflected on the human aspects of NATO's commitment. In this debate, there are questions about changing the mandate of NATO, with a preliminary proposal to conclude that the driving role does not lie with NATO in terms of crisis relief and humanitarian aid, or combating terrorism, but that NATO can carry out such tasks in cooperation with national authorities and international organisations with relevant mandates. NATO guidelines for such an exposure were requested. Norway supported Iceland, as the representative Nybakk mentioned, in their concerns about the withdrawal of US forces from the Keflavik base. The Norwegian perspective was not just that Iceland, as the only NATO country, no longer wants an air defence, but just as much that it can be seen as a signal of less interest to the north and all the opportunities, as well as challenges, that lie there in terms of resource extraction. Otherwise, the relationship with PLC and Hamas causes as much disagreement in the assembly as in the domestic arena. The PLC has observer status, but many in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly do not want to turn actively to Hamas for participation in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. At present, Norway has no place in the assembly. It was therefore gratifying that Jan Petersen was nominated vice president of the conservative group of the assembly. The selection takes place at the harvest session in Quebec in November.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e136	The Committee's position is unanimous this year, and those who have read the previous year's settings will see that there is a great difference. It's unanimous because SV is part of a government based on NATO membership, and we take the consequences of that. I would like to comment on two aspects that I think are important for us in the SV to follow up on. One is NATO's nuclear strategy, and the other is Afghanistan's situation against ISAF. In an interview with the German newspaper Der Spiegel, Peace Prize winner El Baradei said the following: The risk of nuclear weapons being used has never been greater. The SV and the Government will work for NATO countries to take the lead in the fight against nuclear upgrading. We will work to ensure that NATO continuously evaluates its nuclear strategy to reduce the role of nuclear weapons in international policy. The complete abolition of nuclear weapons is a goal that must be pursued. In fact, when examining the 2006 budget, a unanimous Foreign Affairs Committee agreed with the Government Parties and the Soria Moria Declaration in this regard. There should be a good basis for Norway to adopt an offensive position in NATO. The Canberra Commission said in 1996: Nuclear weapons are today held by a handful of states insisting that these weapons provide them with unique security benefits, while these countries reserve a unique right to have such weapons. Such a situation is unstable and therefore unsustainable. The possession of nuclear weapons by any State is a constant encouragement for others to acquire such weapons. – That was true in 1996. That's even more true in 2006. The Bush administration has divided the nuclear weapons into two categories: ‘Good’, ‘Good’, ‘Good’, ‘Good’, ‘Good’, ‘Good’, ‘Good’, ‘Good’, ‘Woman’, ‘Woman’ and ‘Woman’, ‘Woman’ and ‘Woman’, which are dangerous and destabilising. It's a simplification, to put it mildly. In parallel with the development of a rocket defense, attempts to develop less and more usable nuclear weapons, the United States has reduced the time to which nuclear weapons can be tested and is opposed to a controllable cessation of the production of fissile weapons. In this situation, we in SV believe it is important to work to get rid of the nuclear weapons that the United States has on European soil. In a survey conducted in Belgium, Germany, the United Kingdom, Italy and the Netherlands, a large majority of people agree that weapons must be removed. Several initiatives have been taken, including: by the Belgian Senate and the FDP in Germany. Here at home, the Inter-Church Council Committee on International Issues for the Withdrawal of NATO’s Nuclear Weapons from Non-atomic Land. NATO's nuclear weapon umbrella covers about one-sixth of the world's population. The expansion of the alliance combined with the deployment of nuclear weapons has made Russia more reluctant to equip itself. El Baradei says that other countries can't sit and watch NATO's 25 member states bet on the nuclear umbrella while trying to ban what is obviously perceived as a kind of security for other states. It's not sustainable in the long run. It is simply dangerous, and is a threat to the disarmament work that Norway has undertaken in the United Nations context. Therefore, Norway needs to take on an initiator’s role and a bridge builder’s role in NATO in order to remove nuclear weapons in Europe, and in order to reduce the huge number of Russian nuclear weapons that are also in Europe. Norway participates in the ISAF forces of NATO in Afghanistan. This is in line with the Soria Moria Declaration. Norway is doing an important job in ISAF. The situation in Afghanistan is complicated and stability is fragile. It's the combination of many factors that have created it over a long time. The situation has worsened, and it is serious. People in Afghanistan are tired of war. They'll create a future, like all of us. What Afghanistan needs is the same as all well-functioning countries — Afghanistan is not a well-functioning country yet — a country that can dispose of a substantial part of its economy, a business life, a school that provides education, a health care service that provides help, and a police that ensures legal security and security. Most of this is missing in Afghanistan. People were promised improvements when the United States and the coalition of willing went into the country. British think tanker Senlis says in a report that people in southern Afghanistan are still living in extreme poverty and have not noticed any benefits of the new democracy. They have also received many empty promises from the international community, i.e. promises that have simply not been fulfilled. They've been waiting five years for their lives to get better, and it just hasn't happened. This is a dangerous situation, because if there is a long time to go before people see some improvements, it can lead to more anxiety and greater soil for, among other things. The Taliban. Therefore, in addition to the contributions to the ISAF forces, Norway needs to step up civil contributions to the construction of a judiciary and increase efforts to replace the drug economy with alternative means of income in order to reduce the power of the many warlords over regions and the economy. It is also part of a debate on NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e162	Norway’s security environment has become more diffuse since the cold days of war. The security policy must therefore take into account a broad and more complex risk picture, characterised by a moving transition between peace, conflict and war. Threats far from Norway can arise and develop rapidly without special warning, and can help to weaken Norwegian safety. In addition, non-governmental actors may threaten security and involve Norway in conflicts. A broader understanding of the concept of security is therefore of great importance. The left is among others energy intake as a new and important security policy element. As we know, Norway has been given a prominent position as a reliable energy exporter, which is expected to have an increasing security policy significance both for us and our partners. In addition, Norway is a significant manager of natural resources in large seas. It makes it necessary for Norway to assert sovereignty and exercise powers in those areas. Faced with old and new threats, NATO continues to appear to be the most important piece of Norwegian security policy, despite the fact that NATO’s importance for Norway’s role in general has changed significantly since the Cold War. NATO is now in a process where the traditional defence alliance is seeking and testing new roles and functions. This will be a central theme for the informal NATO summit of the autumn in Riga. The left is concerned that the alliance should move forward with regard to becoming a political consultation forum. It will be evident in Norway’s interest that future EU-US security policy consultations take place as closely as possible within such a NATO framework and not bilaterally between the two blocks. Furthermore, it is reasonable to assume that the importance of NATO as a political consultative forum will be increased. You can choose among other things: refer to new types of threats that cannot be met by traditional defence strategies, as we know them from the Cold War and earlier. Terrorism and threats to partners from new nuclear powers are central. Moreover, political consultation and dialogue are important instruments in relation to a number of third countries. Through different mechanisms, they are in the process of connecting to NATO cooperation. In this way, NATO countries export values and social views to new countries, contributing to the promotion of stability and security. The perspective of joining the alliance should be presented to the third country concerned, while stressing that the ability to carry out internal political and military reforms will be crucial. In the process of connecting to new countries, it will be of great importance that NATO does not form a new front for Russia. A new terrorist balance would appear to be a creeping prospect here. The integration of new Eastern European countries should, as far as possible, be in agreement with Russia. Furthermore, legitimate Russian security interests should be reasonably taken into account. Moreover, some countries such as Serbia and Bosnia should not be excluded from the cooperation structures of NATO, which would hardly contribute to the promotion of security in Europe. We've recently seen NATO three into new roles. Both in the wake of the Hurricane ‘Katrina’ in the United States and after the earthquake in Pakistan, NATO provided logistical support for humanitarian aid. In addition, many suggest that NATO will strengthen its function in training and training in selected countries. Among other things, there will be: respect for human rights and democratic control of the country's armed forces will be emphasised. The left is in favour of NATO entering into such roles. The assumption must be that it does not help to extend NATO's resources for thin outside. It will therefore be a challenge to strike the right balance between NATO's traditional core functions and new tasks. Furthermore, there should be an integration between old and new tasks. More specifically, this means that military, political and humanitarian aspects should be closely linked to NATO's future actions. Finally, I would like to stress that there should be a good division of labour between NATO and other key actors, such as the OSCE, the UN, the EU and the African Union, AU.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e190	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 5 and 6. At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that matters be dealt with as follows: 7 and 8 are treated together – and considered adopted. [[See page 2727]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e219	It is a unanimous committee that supports the establishment of cooperation in the OSCE in 2005. Ever since the initiative to set up the OSCE, and the meeting in Helsinki in 1975 that laid the foundations for the organisation we have today, the OSCE has played an important role. With 55 member countries, the organisation is the largest regional organisation in the world. The OSCE has developed into an important player in areas ranging from arms control and anti-terrorism measures to democratisation, human rights, national minorities and environmental issues. The development of an enlarged Europe after the Cold War has required a great deal of willingness to cooperate and focus on the issues and areas with which the OSCE is working. The organisation has been important in the post-war construction of the former Yugoslavia and has been and is an actor that contributes to focusing on post-war issues, the return of refugees and internally displaced refugees, pressure on the authorities of the various countries to solve property problems and reconstruction and interaction to get national minorities and different ethnic groups to cooperate and live side by side. Here, the organisation still has challenges, especially in terms of helping to solve the issues related to Kosovo and its future status. The OSCE is also an important player in relation to the development of democracy in the former Soviet states, such as the United States. Belarus, Ukraine and Uzbekistan. Here, the national authorities need help to implement the processes, and there is a need for international pressure from the OSCE to initiate democratisation processes and respect human rights. The dialogue now underway between the Heads of State of Armenia and Azerbaijan to try to resolve the long-standing conflict of Nagorno-Karabakh needs follow-up. Here, the OSCE is an important contributor. So a range that obviously isn't mentioned in the setting. The recent revelations of secret prisons in Chechnya show that we need to put pressure on Russia to resolve the conflict, launch a democratisation process and gain respect for fundamental human rights. The OSCE, in addition to the UN, can help to focus the situation in Chechnya. This is absolutely necessary in order to help those who still live in the area to experience security and that all those internally displaced in Russia or who have had to flee to other countries should have the hope of one day being able to return to their homes in security and without fear of persecution. In our opinion, Norway must once again focus on the need for the OSCE to have a presence in Chechnya, so that human rights violations can be systematically monitored and addressed with Russia. The voluntary organisations, like Memorial, do a big and important job and need support from the OSCE. In line with criticism from the Council of Europe for secret prisons and violations of fundamental human rights, Russia must now also have the same criticism. The situation in Chechnya calls for the same attention and investigations on the part of the OSCE as the Council of Europe has given — rightly — in the case of the secret prisons in European countries, which have been used by the US authorities. The areas in which the main focus has been on the OSCE in recent years are trafficking in human beings, weapons and drugs. Every year hundreds of thousands of women and children are exposed to trafficking in human beings in Europe, as the representative Nybakk was also involved in his post on NATO. The work done in the OSCE and by the OSCE Special Rapporteur in this field is very important. Trafficking also has a day-to-day and clearly visible page in Norway. We must take care of the victims and ensure cross-border cooperation in order to take the backers. Such a modern form of slavery as human trafficking is involves both physical and mental terror in relation to the victims. There is hardly any country in the OSCE that is not a country of dispatch, transit or destination in terms of various forms of trafficking. The various aspects of trafficking have an impact on almost all areas of the OSCE. It is therefore important that the organisation has the strength and capacity to combat all forms of trafficking in human beings. I refer you to the settings of a unanimous committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e238	In this unanimous setting, a number of processes, matters and situations related to the Caucasus, Chechnya, Belarus, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan are mentioned. A number of the issues concerned therefore concern Russia. It is worrying that relations with just Russia have become more strenuous in the last year. In this case of the OSCE, it is to some extent parallel to some of the comments in relation to NATO and the problems you face there. It is to hope that the OSCE, and perhaps in particular our delegates and authorities in their work through the OSCE, sees it as a goal to work systematically to improve the relationship with just Russia, so that you get more involved with the processes and issues where you depend on Russian involvement. This will be the basis for progress in a number of issues such as: referred to by Mr Valle.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e243	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 7 and 8. [[See page 2727]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e259	St.meld. No 14, as we now have before us, the report of the 60th General Assembly of the United Nations is a session that has been marked by the great reform process under way. We can basically say that what has happened has been marked by two factors: one is the overall overall reform process and the discussion around it. The second is the relationship of power between the General Assembly and the Security Council, where a group called G4 countries have fought for space, without any final clarification. I believe that there has been a broad consensus in the Committee on the need for reform. There may have been shades of vision, rate and extent. That is why the Progress Party has made a minority comment, which I assume the party itself will explain. I guess it's okay to say that the reform work could have got a better start. Unfortunately, the organisation has split into western and developing countries, into a north-south dimension. It will go too far into all sorts of possible and imaginable shades of this division, but I think we have to recognize that it is historically conditional, that it is politically conditional, and that it is culturally dependent. As I said, the process being initiated is necessary. We need a better organized UN that can take care of the very important tasks facing the organisation. That's why I think we need to take on board that we don't have to get involved in deepening the lines of division that have emerged, but rather invite to a good dialogue in order to find out the future-oriented solutions that are necessary. Then we must and should take the necessary time. The Committee notes with satisfaction the appointment of its own high-level panel, where the Prime Minister of Norway is invited to be the leader, and where the main focus is on the work of finding an effective and better way to organise humanitarian aid. Let me say from this pulpit that the Storting is excited about the committee's work. The Chairman of the Committee has been strongly asked to keep Stortinget informed. In these words, I make the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e276	I read with pleasure a chronicle of Kofi Annan in Sunday's edition of the Newspaper, where he writes in these World Cup times that he could wish the United Nations were a little more like FIFA and football World Cup sometimes. And what does Kofi Annan mean by that? In principle, the leading critics of the United Nations system would say that he must probably think that there are many nations here that all think his team and his own goals are most important. Maybe he thinks the countries that don't do it so well on the track are trying to hide it by blaming the judge? No, no, no. Kofi Annan pulls out sides of the football on which the United Nations system will definitely be envious. He notes that FIFA has more member countries than the United Nations has. Football is also one of the very few phenomena with as much global excitement as the United Nations has. It is a game that is played in all countries, across all ethnic groups and religious beliefs. The UN is our main global tool for peace, security, sustainable development and the defence of human rights. But the organization is far from perfect. That's why some of the important things that have happened in this period we're now discussing here today, the report 'In Larger Freedom', as Kofi Annan said – last year it was. The report made important proposals for reform of the UN, including: in the field of security policy, in the social and economic fields and in relation to human rights. There is no doubt that the UN is facing major challenges in terms of the need to strengthen and reform in order to better address current and future security threats. Some grips are obvious to change the UN structure. Take the UN Security Council. Here all the victors of World War II have a right to veto. This does not reflect the world as it is today. This is where it has to change. The composition must definitely reflect the realities of the day better. The right of veto must be amended in such a way that the acts of veto cannot block decisions for which there will be a majority in the Council. A single vote should not be able to set aside a decision which a clear majority wishes to implement. The third – and perhaps most importantly – is that funding for the UN system needs to be done so that we can provide the UN with stable and more predictable revenues to improve global cohesion policy. The financing of the UN must therefore turn from the membership quota to a more direct global tax. We can tax currency trading. We can tax arms trade. We can impose a CO2 tax or a charge on imports and exports across borders, as the Brandt Commission proposed in its time. And we can tax flights, such as, for example, Norway is in charge. It is a continuous challenge for the UN to have sufficient legitimacy in, for example, development work. The UN is accused of having a heavy bureaucracy. The UN is accused of being a blackout and a low-efficiency channel for development and emergency aid. Any accusation of a malfunctioning UN must be taken seriously, because a UN without legitimacy is definitely a weakened global tool. That is why it is an important task for the Government to play an active role in the further work on the reform process and to be an active driver and voice so that the organisation gets the legitimacy it needs, and becomes more effective and better able to meet the challenges we face. Kofi Annan also writes in his chronicle that he could wish the United Nations had a little more of the competition between the member states that we find in the football World Cup. I join Anna when he says that it would have been great if land had put all its honor and prestige in – and fought about – being the best at, for example. human rights. And it would have been amazing if countries were trying to surpass each other in terms of reducing child mortality, or in terms of the number of children educated after primary school. And it would have been amazing if there was as much money for aid work as it is in the football industry. I think we can all join Annan when he says that the world had been a little better place to live, the UN would have been a little bit more like football World Cup and FIFA in some areas, even though, of course, FIFA, like the United Nations, is being blamed for corruption and rigour. I'm glad the Government wants to strengthen the United Nations system. Norway has increased and will increase its support for the UN, but we must also make tougher demands on the UN organisations to deliver results in the fight for peace and development, and we must demand a more efficient, unbureaucratic organisation and a more efficient use of the money we provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e305	As the rapporteur pointed out, a unanimous Committee on Foreign Affairs stated that the reform process under way is necessary in order to give the UN a form and operation that are better to meet the major challenges faced by the organisation in the years ahead. On our side, we will also stress that the reform process must also aim to make the UN more relevant, and that the organisation needs to do its tasks faster and more efficiently. The UN must not be an objective in itself, but the existence of the UN must be conditional on the organisation focusing on concrete global challenges that the Member States themselves do not have the strength or ability to solve separately. It is also essential in a reform process to seek to make the UN more transparent. This is particularly true with regard to financial arrangements. Most people are aware that the UN has had a number of corruption scandals, which clearly weaken the organisation's work and also weaken people's confidence in the UN system. On our side, we will also point to the need for a comprehensive review of the UN's overall aid policy. There is a lot of evidence that better coordination and a better structure could deliver far better results than today. It must be in everyone's interest that the enormous resources available to the United Nations as a whole are spent as wisely and efficiently as possible, so that one reaches the greatest possible number of those in need. We will therefore stress that, in further reform work, we need to focus on this, and also carry out a comprehensive evaluation of the relationship between objectives and use of instruments in the UN's overall development policy. Finally, I would like to ask that the Norwegian side keep up the pressure and focus on the UN reform process.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e318	It is not difficult to join the unanimity of the Committee on the Reform Process, which is mentioned in the joint comments, where one points out that it is necessary to better master the major challenges that one faces in the future. It is also important to note that there is a unanimous committee which notes that it is not necessary to lose sight of this, although the General Assembly took a decision on 9 May which can be interpreted as a preliminary step backwards in that work. I want to stay a little bit more by decision on 9 May. For several years, it has been clear to those who have followed the work of the United Nations on the sideline, that the Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, has made considerable efforts to achieve better coordination in the various parts of the United Nations organisation, various departments and agencies. It also applies to organisational, logistical and economical issues — all of them in order to achieve more efficient operation, more targetedness and better use of resources. Therefore, the decision of 9 May was quite surprising when a split General Assembly adopted a resolution that delayed the efficiency of money use and decision-making procedures, in which all donor countries, except Norway, voted against. This I have previously raised as a written question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on 24 May, and I have received a full answer on two A4 pages, explaining the reasons for the vote. But I notice that one in the answer also states that other areas, such as the strengthened authority of the Secretary-General, are not fully cared for. And that's exactly the point. One has missed this coordinating – let's say – authority at the top of the organisation that could lead to better coordination in the areas we mentioned. Furthermore, in the foreign minister's reply, one says that despite the poor negotiating climate to which the vote contributed in May, the reform process continues, and one points out that the vote should perhaps have been avoided, because it can contribute to further polarisation between developing countries and Western countries. Then it must be allowed to point out that there might be a real disagreement about the future appearance of the United Nations, where defining what is efficient operation and good use of resources, might look different if you sit on the donor side, than if you sit on the recipient side. Therefore, I conclude by concluding that, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Right, Norway’s vote was justified on 9 May for a low level in relation to the adverse effect it could have.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e329	As several speakers have commented, the UN is in the midst of an important reform process, and I would like to comment on one important part of what I think deserves its place. But first of all, I want to say that the challenges are great in terms of creating an organization for the future, an organization that has the weight and the power to intervene in the great tasks that the United Nations has and that the United Nations gets. There is a clear signal that there is a need for a clearer structure of all funds, organisations, special organisations and committees that the United Nations Member States have gradually asked for and that have been developed. At the same time, the UN reform and its process must include a gender and gender perspective. There is a clear need to establish a clearer and possibly new UN structure for women and equality. As this work is being carried out today, it is too weak, characterized by fragmented structure, which is both understaffed and underbudgeted. In many cases, those who work with women and gender equality lack the power to make decisions, and your decision is far from real. In the interaction debate that we had on women and development issues in the Stortinget in May of this year, it was made clear from everyone that we need both ‘mainstreaming’ and special development measures. The same requirement must be met by the UN's work on women and equality issues. Yes, thank you, both sides, must also be communicated to the debate that is going on in the High Panel, and I have great faith that Prime Minister Stoltenberg as one of the panel leaders is doing just that. New evaluations of, inter alia: UNDP’s mainstreaming work shows that in actual implementation processes, women and gender equality tend to be invisible. The final document of the 1995 UN Conference of Women in Beijing and the two subsequent follow-up meetings in New York have been followed up. In fact, women around the world are very closely involved in the reform process that has been initiated. To date, there has been great disappointment that efforts to strengthen the United Nations Women’s and Gender Equality Mechanism have apparently not been given any emphasis, despite the fact that the UN final document of the 2005 World Summit on Women’s and Gender Equality stated that the United Nations’ competence in women’s and gender equality needs to be strengthened. Also with regard to the UN, I want to talk about nuclear disarmament and the need for disarmament, because more than ever, the forces that fight against the proliferation of nuclear weapons and for disarmament are needed. That is why reform must lead to a stronger fight against non-proliferation and for disarmament. Norway’s involvement in this area has been clearly long, including under the previous government. Norway has been and must be a driver of the widest possible and most binding non-proliferation and disarmament work. The proliferation of nuclear weapons is a serious threat to international peace and security. It is therefore important for Norway to continue cooperation in the seven-country group in order to move forward in the follow-up to the 2000 Conference of Supervisors, and it is even more important in view of the fact that neither the 2005 Conference of Supervisors nor the UN Summit in September last year were able to agree on new measures to address the threat posed by the proliferation of nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e349	Deep-stripping reforms must be implemented in order for the UN to address the major challenges facing the world community. The reform process in progress is therefore essential. The vast majority can say that they agree to this. The disagreement appears to be in which direction the reforms should go and how they should be implemented. There is disagreement between North and South, between large and small contributors, and there is a continuing disagreement about the composition of the Security Council. This has helped to weaken the UN. In addition, criticism from different walks of life, a criticism which unfortunately in many cases has proved to be justified. Central Keyword here is a heavy and inefficient administration, corruption and fragmentation in sub-organisations, programmes and funds. These include the fact that many different UN organisations have related tasks. In some cases, organisations are in a competitive relationship with each other. Furthermore, the presence of the UN in many co-operation countries is often uncoordinated, where different sub-organisations have their own administrative apparatus. Here's a lot to save and a big room for improvement and rationalization. It should also be cleared up in the various roles and functions of the United Nations. The UN shall be a set of norms, give legitimacy to decisions on which the world community is united, and give mandate to intervene where necessary. These functions should be brought together as far as possible within the UN and should not be confused in other forums where military, political or financial weights are decisive. Furthermore, the UN will provide assistance and emergency aid, but there are many other actors with which the UN needs to cooperate. No one will be served to allow the UN to be further weakened. The Left therefore believes that unreasonable demands should not be placed on the reform process, possibly linked to threats of cutting down on appropriations. Reforming the UN will be a long and difficult process. It will be essential to initiate a move in the right direction and not to require concrete and short-term results. It is therefore necessary to press for change, but at the same time to show the necessary humility to the great and complex task facing us. The left does not agree that the UN has no self-esteem. The UN shall be a universal and permanent organisation ready to operate or intervene when required. When new global problems arise, or a new comprehensive natural disaster framework, the UN system must be ready. It is not then necessary to use time and resources to build up the basic structures and infrastructures necessary for the functioning of the world community. The left is somewhat skeptical to the Minister of Development's emphasis on carrots and whips, as he did in the context of his policy statement on development on 16 May: UN organisations following Norwegian priorities are to be rewarded with increased appropriations, while those not doing so are to be decommitted. Norway should not step in the direction of increasing its influence in the UN based on financial contributions to the UN. If all the countries concerned were to embark on such a line, it would hardly be a constructive contribution, either to the ongoing work or to the reform process. It would probably help to create an even greater distance to many countries in the south. The most constructive contribution to the UN reform process is to actively participate in the laborious work of building a consensus between all the countries and actors involved. This is a complicated and time-consuming process, but nevertheless necessary process. Left wants an orderly world based on common driving rules – and not the strongest right. That's why we need the UN. The UN is far from perfect, but there is no alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e370	It's not just to make a good transition to the future defence issues that I want to bring forward the enormous work that the United Nations is doing in military operations. The UN is the largest military player, with 80,000 men standing around the world. The United Nations is doing a great job. We've got the second captain last year, a Norwegian officer. We can be proud that we've been seen in such a task, got such a high position, in an organization that has many sides to it, but that actually creates an incredible amount of security for people around the world. So we're not going to forget that the UN is also useful and works. And it works even more and benefits even more if the member countries give more to the organization. We all know that the UN should have an overarching role in security management. At the same time, however, the UN must stick to several other regional actors. We know that NATO doesn't know exactly where to go and where to go. We know that AU, African Union, is also looking for its way of producing security in Africa. We also know that we've got a new element, a new way for – at least stated – positive to try to work for security, which is coalitions of willingness. We also know that the EU is looking for ways to gather clusters to help increase security. In this context, it is important for the UN to maintain its superior role. But the UN's relationship with each of the individuals, and also many others, we need to be able to intensify in the future, so that one is able to use the resources that exist, not only count troops enough times and so on paper, but get even more flexibility between the work that is going on in the General Assembly, in the Security Council and the various regional actors. Here, I think there's a lot to add – what we're going to say – of old thoughts to make one more dynamic and make this work more smoothly. We know that sometimes it has to be tricked and tricked, just to get to the most important of all, sometimes, international presence, because where there is no international presence, it is often that the abuse is very bad. I think the United Nations could be even better in its military operations. With increased diplomacy, of course, and flexibility from the military policy side, we will be able to increase the security of people if we want to give the UN that key role. But then, of course, the UN itself must also be able to have that role, via the Secretary-General and the instruments that the United Nations has. In every possible context, we're talking about the relationship between military and civil. We have also had debates on humane matters. What I have registered is that more and more professional soldiers point out that we must give their efforts a follow-up in the form of assistance. But in addition, I hear more and more of them say that we should also be better able to distinguish between what are military tasks and what are police duties. We are present in Colombia, we are present in Afghanistan with our capable people from the Oslo Police College, etc. But often the important work the police are doing is outside the debate. It may in many cases be easier if one has not only been with and built up a national army, but also is with and built up a judiciary and, of course, an executive civil police authority. That we get the whole width and the whole spectrum here, I think I'll be able to be involved in increasing the security of those who really need it. I believe that the UN can be a place where that debate can take place. And for the most part, I totally agree with the representative from the Progress Party who says that then the UN must also be able to deal better with all of them, I've been saying, the internal problems one has, because there are important enough problems out there if it couldn't destroy. Since there's been a very calm debate today, I'll almost say, I just have to take a little hint at Vallersnes, who is asking for 2 pst. to NATO. I'm not just going to owe the Right, but no party has asked for us to increase and make sure that the United Nations gets its funds in the form of money for its thousandths of years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e383	There has been an interesting debate on an attitude that, in good Norwegian tradition, is unanimous on the main issues. I would just like to make a comment on what is often being focused on regarding the future of the United Nations, namely all the areas where the United Nations is short. You can sometimes feel that the UN is being made the subject of all its shortcomings in our time. But the UN is the result of what countries want, and what countries give the United Nations the opportunity to be. If all the efforts made every day by the United Nations in local communities around the world were to be highlighted, perhaps a slightly different approach could be given to the debates on the role of the United Nations today, where we often end up looking at whether it might be appropriate to remove floors on the United Nations building in New York. Then I will also just link a comment to this vote that Vallersnes has been busy with, and which I have responded to in a letter to him. I don't want to exaggerate the significance of it. So this was a situation in which Norway chose not to go into a very polarized image, where the south was heading north, and where we thought that the discussion attracted a polarization. In such cases, I think Norway can choose to give up, so that it can help to heal some of the wounds that occur when things are eaten. Otherwise, I would like to stress to the representative, Mr Valle, on disarmament that it is important that we carry that agenda forward, and I am pleased that she has taken it up in the context of the United Nations. We were a little bit into it when it was about NATO. Of course, it belongs there, but the initiative taken by Jan Petersen was a good initiative – the 7-country initiative. Let's go on with that. We are actively working on it, with strong support from Kofi Annan. We are renewing, strengthening and deepening our cooperation with the IAEA, El Baradei, and are going to have a seminar in Oslo on the entire handling of high-rich uranium this month. It's an important work, a work that can often fade like just uphill. But without grasping it, we're not going anywhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e392	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2727]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e408	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2728]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e424	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2728]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e440	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e449	The purpose of this proposition is to provide information on the Government's policy within selected parts of the investment activities of the Defence and to request the decision of the Storting on a case-by-case basis. The governing document for the content of this proposition is inter alia: Inner. S. No 234 for 2003-2004, cf. St. pp. No 42 for 2003-2004, The further modernisation of defence in the period 2005-2008. The proposition has the following contents: Approval of the cost framework for new construction project Dry dock – Haacon ProtectionInformation cases The following cases are submitted for information: Program Golf/LOS, New sea target missiles, New frigates, Combating tanks by means of range and Used armoured special vehicle [[(chapter. 1760 heading 47):]] [[(chapter. 1760):]] The Party of Advances and the Right has registered that the Government has decided to continue the dry dock in the mountains of Haakonsvern. The Progress Party and the Right will show here that we have previously pointed out that the need for dry dock should be resolved in another way. The Progress Party and the Right record a significant increase in the cost framework from initially 314 million. NOK 381 million. kr. With such an increase in costs, we can only fear that costs will increase further as the project starts. The Programme Golf has consisted of several activities to establish a common integrated management system, the FIF, in Defence. This program has now been changed to the LOS program. The Progress Party notes that the next stage in the realisation of the FIF, to be implemented by the new LOS programme, is called the Economic Project. The progress party is sceptical that the final scale and costs associated with this is not clarified. The Progress Party records that the Defence Agency has carried out an up-to-date assessment of future operational costs for project 6088 – new frigates. Here it appears that the planned operation provides an expected annual need for operational resources of approx. 900 million. kr after all frigates have been delivered in 2010. This assessment is based on the operational operation of three frigates, the operation of one vessel as a training vessel and the maintenance or preparation of one vessel. The Progress Party notes with concern that the project still has a significant financial uncertainty. In addition, the Progress Party is committed to the need to take on board the need for additional operational means for the Defence in the years following the phase-in of, inter alia. new frigates and after each new MTB of the Skold class. To date, no parties other than the Progress Party have seen the need for the allocation of additional resources to the Defence. In the future, the other parties must also take this into account so that the material acquired is used for the purpose for which they were acquired.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e473	The Workers' Party is pleased that the Government is following up the Storting decision to invest in an extended dry dock on Haakonsvern. This will ensure that the defence’s new frigates will have access to dock at all times, while helping to maintain an important environment of competence at the Maritime Defence Main Base on Haaconic Protection. On 1 June 2006 was a special day for the Maritime Defense, for the Defence and for our country. We got a new frigate when the first of the five new frigates, KNM “Fridtjof Nansen”, added Kai in Oslo – with big party and subsequent folk party. Afterwards, one frigate will arrive this year until 2009. In total, this is an investment of more than DKK 20 billion, including weapons and helicopters. This is a formidable investment, but it is also well spent money. The new frigates will solve a wide range of tasks both at home and outside. In our neighbourhoods, they will contribute to the monitoring of large sea and air areas, and they are equipped with their significant managerial capacity and helicopter capacity to meet most situations, from rescue missions to combat missions, if necessary. In particular, the new frigates become a central tool for military presence in important areas. So they're expressing our interests, values and priorities. Military presence supports Norwegian diplomacy by underlining and highlighting Norwegian positions and Norwegian positions. In order to help prevent the accidental escalation of crises and conflicts, more than the important work carried out by the Coast Guard is necessary. That is why modern sea-going frigates are so important, and I expect a broad majority of the Stortinget to agree that the frigates are still a major and important investment for Norway. Such a large investment must also be safeguarded, and the frigates must be maintained by the Maritime Defence Agency. I record that the Right Party and the Advance Party have other solutions and ideas on how to manage our frigate investments in the future, and that they are today trying to fight back because they do not believe that the Maritime Defense needs their own dry dock. It would be nice if these parties would explain what solutions they see for the future maintenance of our new frigates. I would also like to remind the assembly that, where possible and appropriate, an overall committee in yesterday's report on the financial management of defence states that it should be a priority to streamline the internal efficiency of the defence military organisation instead of dedicating parts of the defence activities to external actors. This should well also apply to Maritime Defence and future frigate maintenance. The Progress Party even went so far in yesterday’s debate on financial management that they said that they ‘are of the opinion that the Defence must own and dispose of its own capacities as far as possible’ in property, construction and construction. Furthermore, the Advancement Party said that they "regards investment in Defence as part of investment in society and will therefore regard its commercialisation as a further removal of the basis of public defence". But these were just words and rhetoric that don't apply when you get to the world of reality and to big actual investments in Defense as the frigates. We recognise that we are in a minority in the Committee on this issue, and I would therefore like to address the minority proposal in the vote. Finally, and with regard to the other information matters in the proposal, we are pleased that there is a great deal of consensus in the Committee's comments – with the exception of the Progress Party – and that the Government will appropriately return to the Storting on the matters that may differ from what is described or require further decisions from this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e500	The representative Signe Eye has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e503	This has not been particularly demanding for the Defence Committee. It could therefore be nice to pick up one of the threads that were woven into Signe Øyes’ posts, namely the joy that we have now got the first frigate delivered, and that it has come to Norway. I think there is every reason for us to stress that this is a very important event that will provide many opportunities to highlight Norwegian presence where Norwegian presence is to be marked. I noticed that she also used the somewhat interesting wording that she now believed that a broad majority in the Stortinget agreed that this large investment was correct. I expect that it was primarily addressed to the Swedish government coalition colleague SV, who has tried on the sales market for the frigates. I think the rest of us have got some of the main points, namely that if you're going to have a class of vessels of that type first, it's necessary to have critical mass. It is necessary to have a certain number in order for it to be effective. That's what the Stortinget has previously joined, and I think we're going to check that this decision was correct. In this case it is also necessary to repeat the position on docking. There are no questions about a rematch, but it is actually that when the government invites us to take a decision in the matter, we also have to answer with what we think is right, namely that there will be other, more cost-effective ways to solve this problem. I would like to remind you that it will be possible to have sensible cooperation events along the Norwegian coast that will provide win-win situations for both industry and maritime defence. When we are going to carry out a very difficult restructuring, where there is a fight over the funds, it is important not to make things more expensive than most necessary. This is what governs us. We want to use other solutions that can release funds for the Defence. But when the government invites us to take a decision, we also have to make proposals that this was not the way to go. Otherwise, I notice that the Advance Party once again advertises, as they did yesterday, that they want additional funds for the Defense. Honor them for that, but it's important to remember two things. One is that the majority – and it is a broad majority – implements the conversion of defence precisely to ensure that it becomes a balance with a good result for Norwegian defence. And then there must be an opportunity to note what I found yesterday, namely that every time the Progress Party was close to being able to influence a political decision – as they were many times when it was about the state budget in the last period – the defense never reached the priorities. That tells us a little bit about what it's really about.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e514	The Central Party, which does not have a permanent member of the Committee, wishes to express its views on this matter. Then I'll start with the dry dock. It's probably not to hide that we from our side were somewhat skeptical. Ideally, we wanted the realization to have been postponed until the Defence Committee had had its review, but we then came to the conclusion that the matter had been carried out so far that it was right to make a decision. We just hope that the 381 million. kr, which has been set as a framework for this project, turns out to be holding, and that we have implemented it. For the treatment of St.meld. No 10 yesterday, we were in the Gulf Project. I am not going to touch on what I mentioned yesterday, but we are looking forward to the extension of this project, now called LOS, by the end of 2007, to service, horizontal interaction, stockpiling and material registration. Then, in sum, we will have a working tool for the Defense that hopefully will give us the control and the transparency that is necessary. Yesterday we expressed our joy at the fact that one frigate had arrived in Norway, in Norwegian waters, and wished – and let me repeat it – that it would be properly tested in tough Arctic conditions, where we have real challenges. Then we will find a constructive solution to the 900 million in increased operating costs in 2010, when all five frigates are in place – three will be operational in rolling order, one will be operated as a training vessel, and one is for maintenance. Then we record that the necessary development work has been started on target missiles, with new armoury ammunition, and we're assessing armoured vehicles. This is, of course, a picture of a renewed defence that should be able to deal with the changed conditions we are facing. With these comments, the Centre Party joins the minority proposal of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e529	This issue of investment is also related to what we discussed yesterday, about financial management, but I will not embroider it too much. But it's clear, the head of defence has given some signal of political undermining of military domination, which is the framework for these debates. I'm not going to take that debate. I am not going to take a rematch on frigatsaka either, just briefly note that I also thought it was a fantastic boat. There is no doubt that there are good boats. I could say something about how they're going to behave in the Barents Sea, but I'm not going to do that either. But what I have doubts about is whether this investment is proportionate to the threat these boats are prepared to face. I'm not sure if that threat exists. That threat lies suspicious and rusts in Murmansk or has fallen into the Barents Sea. Now leave it alone. We are not going to take that debate either – there are a lot of clarifications about what debates we are not going to take here. In connection with investment, I have suggested that one can do like France and the Netherlands, where one has disposed of parts of the frigate weapon precisely because new tasks in relation to coastal work, coastal protection, have shown that frigates were not as serviceable as other boats. But I record that the government is in good shape and in any case will report to us if there are any problems in relation to the financial management in this. Because that's the most important of all, that it's the order of the economy, so that we don't get into the situation that we've now moved into an over-consumption where we just get trouble with the over-credit, to put it straight out. We've been in that situation before, and we're not going to do that again. It seems that there is good management of this, and should not be the case, the Council of State will return to this room as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e538	The purpose of this investment proposition is twofold. On the one hand, the Government wishes to inform the Storting about the individual parts of the investment activities in the defence sector, and on the other hand, the decision of the Stortinge is requested in a single case. In its Declaration of Accession, the Government placed great emphasis on the strategic importance of our northern regions. The richness of our seas is to ensure the well-being of future generations. The defence is, with its presence, a major contributor to securing these resources. As mentioned in several articles, approx. two weeks ago the first of our new frigates to the country. This was a brand day, not just for the Defense, but for the nation of Norway. For the frigate project, the reception of the first vessel was also a very important milestone. The government emphasises the follow-up to the repurchase agreement with Navantia. It is essential that through the repurchase agreement we can enable the Norwegian shipyard industry to compete for the maintenance of the frigates and other of our vessels. The defence has expressed the wish to maintain the frigates in Norway. Cooperation between the Defence Logistics Organisation and the Bergen Mechanical Workshop has been initiated to investigate how civil and military actors can cooperate in the maintenance of the ships. It is central in this context that we are given a transfer of technology from Navantia to Norwegian actors in line with the purpose of the repurchase agreement. As a consequence of the ambition to maintain the frigates in Norway, the Government is asking the Stortinget to formalise the construction of a dry dock on Haakonsvern. The dock is also central to the ambitions of Haacon protection as a maritime force center. The drug could enable cooperation between civil and military actors. Such cooperation is important in order to achieve benefits, both for defence and for society and for business. The reason why we are asking for a formalisation of this decision is that despite the fact that the project has been dealt with several times in Stortinget, the cost framework has not been included in any of the decisions. And because the project brings commitments beyond the current annual budget, there is a need for a separate decision on the project's cost framework. In the case of the LOS programme, formerly referred to as Golf, a review of the Programme strategy has been carried out, as is known. I have concluded that the continuation of the joint integrated management system in the Defence shall be based on the SAP computer system, which is the same strategic decision as originally made at the start of the programme, to which the then Minister of Defence Godal provided. A continuation is envisaged where the economic part and the supply part are carried out in a single delivery project. An external quality assurance shall be carried out before implementation is decided. The Defence Manager is also in the process of carrying out a health check of the programme and the results of these work will be available during the summer of 2006. If these activities provide sufficient assurance that there is control of the risk of the project, there will be a green light for continuation. A delivery project is then planned to complete the logistical part. The current project has not been completed. It is therefore not possible to say anything about the scope of this delivery project or the total scope of the programme. I would like to stress that I will come back to Stortinget in an appropriate manner when this is completed. In the case of other projects referred to in the proposal, these are, like the LOS programme and the frigate project, information matters. The projects concerned are all previously approved by Stortinget. I therefore want to keep the Storting updated on the status and progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e559	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e562	Some words about the project Armored used a special vehicle, M-113. This project shall provide the Army's mechanised brigade armoured used special purpose vehicle, and shall provide the Defence Force Force Forced Armoured Used Specialised Vehicle based on vehicles of type M-113. The size has been previously informed that the Ministry of Defence is considering reducing the scope of the project – unfortunately, I have to say. Work is in progress to revise the project management document with regard to the reduction of the number of vehicles and the establishment of a new and reduced cost framework, including the provision for uncertainty. It could be interesting if someone from the government parties or if the minister could say something about where this project is located and how it will be included further in the budgets. Otherwise I heard the minister talk a little about frigates and where these should be maintained. In the view of the Progress Party, it is not a problem to find suitable places to provide the necessary service and maintenance without the Defense itself building anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e572	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2728]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e588	The Storting has now been invited to approve a project for the replacement of the wings on Air Force P-3 Orion aircraft. The work to do on the aeroplanes is to replace most of the wings and the horizontal wings surfaces at the rear. This will give the planes a lifetime to about 2030. The aeroplanes could have been flown further with the old wings, but this would result in higher maintenance costs and extensive limitations of use. An overall committee has also noted that without the proposed investment measures, Norway may be at risk of experiencing a reduced airborne maritime monitoring capacity from around 2008 and without such capacity from 2016. The Government’s Declaration of Accession places emphasis on the north as Norway’s main strategic focus in the coming years. In order to safeguard Norway’s interests and assert our sovereignty, effective monitoring of the areas in question is necessary. An overall committee therefore agrees that in order to safeguard Norwegian economic, environmental and security policy interests, as well as to assert our sovereignty, effective airborne maritime surveillance using P-3 Orion aircraft is essential for the nation. For this reason, a Joint Committee of the Government supports the Government’s investment project for the replacement of wings on P-3 Orion maritime surveillance aircraft with a cost framework of 720 million. kr, as described in the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e605	The rapporteur has well informed about the replacement of the wings on P-3 Orion aircraft. Yesterday we mentioned the importance of the northern regions in another case about the Defence. We just have to realize that P-3 Orion planes are an essential element of resource monitoring. They have been good contributors in discovering and marking the vessels that have been transshipping fish that have been fished black in the Barents Sea – a regrettable problem that we, as a resource nation, have to take very seriously. The Orion planes have been shown to have very high efficiency. They've guaranteed us good control and good sovereignty. It is therefore gratifying that the Defence Committee has made room to invest 720 million. kr for this necessary repair. We now have a decent tool by 2030. If not, in 2008, as the rapporteur pointed out, we would have halved our monitoring capacity and in 2016 we would have been it in addition. And with respect to reporting: the clear emphasis we have placed on the importance of the north for the nation of Norway will not be a believer if we do not do the necessary steps that we are proposing here today. With these comments, the Centre Party joins the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e614	This is a happy day for both the Orion planes, those who use the Orion planes, and not least for the Defence and Norway. We're now going to spend 720 million. NOK to buy new wings, including provision for uncertainty. So this should be okay. We also assume that there should be cooperation with other countries. If there is no cooperation, the government will return to Stortinget with the matter. But the following is added: «In line with the rules applicable to major acquisitions of tangible goods abroad, a buy-back of 100 pst will be required. the value of the negotiated contract. The Ministry of Defence is responsible for negotiating such a repurchase agreement.» I hope that this can be done. If it's not going to go against assumption, I hope we're still standing by what we've said, that we're going to spend 720 million. I want to buy new wings for the Orion planes. The most important thing must be wings.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e626	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2728]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e643	In this case, the majority shall consider proposals for the regulation of remuneration for designated compulsory ratings as from 1 July 2006. In addition, the system of compulsory academic command has been presented. The objective of economic performance is to ensure a fair standard of living for those liable to protection and, where appropriate, for their families. I would first like to say that there is a unanimous committee position in this matter. An overall committee has noted that the regulatory proposal is based on national wage settlement. This gives the compulsory crews an increase of 4,5 pst. on the primary supplements, with effect from 1 July 2006. The same additions will apply to civil guardians. A joint committee further agrees to align wage-earners for compulsory academic orders to salary-level 36 for lieutenants and salary-level 40 for captains, respectively. In conclusion, I would also like to point out that the Government in this matter is adjusting the additions as one of several measures in a long-term process to give our compulsory soldiers increased status. Those implementing the protection obligation are competent, highly qualified young people and the main resource of Defence. I am pleased that the government has stated that the goal is to reach a dividend compensation of NOK 25 000 by the end of 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e656	Here one case goes faster than the other. I asked some questions in the previous article that I have not received an answer to. I don't know if the state council or anyone else will answer that now – for example. about this with 100 pst. repurchase and 720 million. kr, if we stand for this. That's not what this case is about, but I just want to mention it in passing. Earning the duty of protection is becoming less and less so. Now we're down to approx. one third of all boys. In the evening post on March 3, 2006 we read the following: ‘In a few years, down to one in ten Norwegian boys can complete traditional first-time service. It is entirely in line with the needs of the Defence." If this is an acceptable level, I'm not going to comment on today. What is clear, however, is that those who serve the duty of protection must have state-of-the-art measures as well as a clean and sound economy. The last thing is about this matter. In the newspaper Soldierneut, no. 5 2006, we can read that the soldiers require approx. NOK 90 000. This is divided into a service supplement of 1G for 365 days and a distribution allowance of approx. a half G. Together, as I said, approx. NOK 90 000. What we're offering today is a little less, which is $16 for 365 days. If I've calculated correctly, it's going to be $45,990 plus a dividend payment of $20,900, plus a total of $66,890. That is approx. $30,000 less than the soldiers want. This is something the Committee and the Storting must and should take a closer look at. At least I can promise that the Progress Party will take a closer look at this. It should and must be attractive to be in Defense. Then the economy is a bit of this, as well as other status-raising measures such as more and free return trips, several days of leave, a service with a positive content, study credits, etc. A good, effective defense depends on positive soldiers.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e674	I fully agree that with regard to this compensation to the soldiers, it is really only one of several measures to increase the status of the soldiers, in order that it may be reasonable that we should have guardians within a whole year. However, I would like to stress that this is not a normal salary. In recent years, we have increased the compensation of soldiers more than if you look at a percentage increase elsewhere in society. You've done that because you want to show that we want the soldiers there, that we appreciate the young people who deserve protection. It's important. But what is equally important is that we focus widely on empowerment and other measures. Earning a protective duty shall provide added value for the individual soldier. As for the representative of Bredvold's question about repurchase, I saw it as natural that that might have been the answer in the next case, which is about business policy. But I can stress that repurchase is an important matter that we always focus on. It is important to have as a starting point good repurchase agreements on all the tangible goods purchased by the defence abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e683	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[See page 2728]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e699	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to up to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e708	The aim of the Workers' Party is to make Norway one of the leading, innovative, dynamic and knowledge-based economies in the world in the areas where we take precedence. Furthermore, we have a goal of involving the state in a broad field of industrial policy in order to contribute to innovation and to a competitive business. As the proponents of the Progress Party correctly point out, the defence industry differs significantly from other industries. Much of the world's most advanced technology has been developed with a background in the defence industry. Norway's future jobs lie within tomorrow's technology areas, and much of the innovation in this area comes from advanced defence technology. Such technologies are primarily developed with a view to improving the defence capabilities of their respective countries, but the ring-fenced effects of such development projects have proved to be very valuable also for commercial activities. The proposers therefore request the development of a new industrial policy strategy for Norwegian participation in international research and development projects in the defence sector. The strategy must ensure that Norway avails itself of the opportunities for increased participation in such projects. The debate on an active industrial policy has used very different political rhetoric from the various parties on the Stortinget, including the Workers' Party. Therefore, it is gratifying that an overall committee in this matter is setting aside the rhetoric, agreeing on a common goal and having a unanimous vote on the decision. As indicated in the vote, the Minister of Defence, in a letter to the Committee, shows that the proposal concerns an area in which the current government is very concerned and where it is assessed to change the strategy. Furthermore, reference is made to the Government's Declaration of Accession, with particular emphasis on reviewing defence equipment procedures with a view to pursuing a procurement policy that ensures repurchase agreements and complies with Norwegian foreign policy objectives. The government will review current industrial policy strategies to further develop the competence of the Norwegian industry to support defence equipment. Furthermore, the Government will strengthen Norwegian industry’s ability to participate in international material cooperation and ensure that Norwegian companies are best placed to deliver material to the Defence in areas where this is deemed appropriate. The issues covered by the proposal will be considered in this work. That is why I would like to end by stressing once again that it is gratifying that an overall committee on this matter is taking the rhetoric aside, and that, in the light of the Government's response to the Committee, it agrees that the proposal and the intentions of the proposers will be respected. Therefore, the Committee’s recommendation is that Document No: 8:79 is appended to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e731	Norway has a well-developed defence industry, such as Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace, or what we also know as the Kongsberg Group. This type of industry is significantly different from that of other countries. The difference is that the defence industry supplies only to the authorities of each country and thus has only one potential national customer. The need for increased international cooperation in this sector is high, and in particular Norway, as a small nation, can benefit from such cooperation projects. Norway participates in very few international research and development projects in this sector. In fact, Norway has withdrawn from such projects on some occasions because of costs, despite the fact that the defence has had a clearly defined need for what was developed. A good example is the Nordic submarine project Viking. Norway withdrew from cooperation with Denmark and Sweden due to lack of money. Many countries use the defence industry to fit into advanced development projects. A good example is Canada, which has participated in the US JSF fighter project, without having any ambitions to acquire this aircraft. Norwegian authorities receive from time to time an invitation to participate in such multinational research, material and development projects. Today’s government representatives spent a lot of time in the election campaign telling them that the country needs a more active industrial policy. However, since the formation of the government, the rhetoric has become muted and the so-called active industrial policy has been absent. This is a lack of industrial policy. The Progress Party therefore wants to address this lack of active industrial policy and therefore promotes the proposal included on page 2 of the vote. All parties agree on the intention in this matter. Nevertheless, we are promoting our proposal as mentioned above.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e755	The representative Per Ove Wideth has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e758	As the rapporteur pointed out, this setting is unanimous. It also includes me. I just want to give a little explanation as to why I agree with this. It is simply due to the fact that defence equipment is a very special market, where it is a comprehensive system of repurchase and preference. I readily agree that this can be important for those parts of the business that are involved in this. The fact that everyone is doing it makes me not, for my part, see it as possible for Norway to have a different view of this. It's hardly something we're going to win at. So this is all right. However, I would like to add one point that I think is very much forgotten in the debate. It's that one thing is that this is the way it is, and that it makes sense for some industries that enjoy it, but I think we have to recognize at the same time that there doesn't have to be a very good social economy in this. If someone thinks that this is absolutely free, I think you're on the wrong path. As I said, this is hardly anything Norway alone can reform, and it is better to do what you can with the systems that exist. However, I was somewhat surprised that the Progress Party is now leading its proposal to voting, especially if they do not get the support of the other parties. The setting doesn't indicate that. In fact, I read both the proposal and the letter from the Government so that the Advance Party is in many ways prayerful before they have asked. Why, then, there is a need to bring the proposal forward to voting, I am uncertain about. It would be nice to hear how the Progress Party will interpret the fact that their proposals are being voted down. Does that mean that the Progress Party interprets it so that it will not be any of the strategy they have asked for? If they think so, they have every reason to consider whether it makes sense to maintain the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e769	When we from SV have been able to agree to this without making any additional comments, it is because I consider it obvious that this is within the limits of the Norwegian export legislation, which clearly regulates the export and purchase of weapons. That is why it becomes even more strange to me, when all are a few, that one is still presenting the proposal. So one way to think about it is to put it on the top, but enough about it. It inspires me to say a little bit about what we're really talking about. We're talking about the military-industrial concept. I'm not going to go far into it, but we know that it's not for nothing that the providers of flights to Norway today have an agreement with some countries on the development of the JSF and have a different development trail with Israel. It's because these are incriminating things. I could have rammed up a lot of other stuffed things. It is not obvious that one can buy and sell weapons. There are strong limits to it. The current Prime Minister Gerhardsen was probably the one who, in the context of the Cuba crisis, gave the tone and morals of Norwegian export policy: we should not sell or buy from countries where war or conflict threatens. If we were to practice it in the outer context, it would not be sold or bought a lot of weapons. But then it is that the alliance commitments that we have, in a way, push the need, the goal, which is in export control and in export policy. It's clear that this is something that one shouldn't be doing too far. It may reverse the development potential of the defence industry if one is not consistent. If you drag this too far into the military-industrial concept, it won't be able to find legitimacy in the population. I want to encourage the Progress Party not to promote the proposal, because then we can at least be a few to the Government coming back with a concrete case about this. That's because we might get the real content of this case and see if we can become a few.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e780	First, I would like to stress that Document No. The 8 proposal concerns an area in which this government is very concerned and where the Government is now working to change the current strategy. It is such that the acquisitions of the defence give us the opportunity to pursue an active industrial policy. The government will pursue a policy in which one facilitates the exploitation of the dynamics of defence, professional environments and industries. We will work to ensure Norwegian jobs and increase Norwegian competence. It is important, so that we can strengthen the opportunities for the Norwegian defence and security industry on the international market. We need to exploit the opportunities we have to work for both a strong Norwegian defence and a viable industry in Norway. Therefore, it is both right and natural that acquisitions to the Defense also result in assignments for the Norwegian industry. In the government we want to do what we can to give Norwegian business good conditions for development. We want to maintain the sustainability of the industry. To support the Norwegian defence industry, we have a number of concrete instruments. Among these we find first the material acquisitions of the Defense. This applies to repurchase transactions. It concerns development projects. These relate to international material cooperation, long-term industrial alliances, military cooperation and State ownership in the defence industry. The development of new defence systems, especially in Europe, is increasingly based on cooperation between several countries. The government wants the defence to be economically involved in selected projects, but will at the same time assume that it will be industrially involved. Participation contributes to giving Norwegian environments access to other countries' top technologies. As part of the Government's commitment to international material cooperation, I signed a cooperation agreement with the European Defence Agency, the European Defence Agency, EDA, during the meeting with EU defence ministers in Innsbruck on 7 March this year. I would like to stress that this work had started under the previous government. This cooperation agreement is important for Norway because it will ensure access to a central European cooperation body that will coordinate both defence procurement, which will conduct defence-related research and development, and which will develop military capabilities for the EU Member States. The EDA is also working to strengthen Europe's high-tech competence base and the European defence industry. The agreement will be of great importance to our cooperation with the EU, both in the defence and industrial fields. It will provide defence access to key material projects and industry with access to international cooperation and new markets. The Government's Declaration of Accession places particular emphasis on the fact that the Government will review the procurement procedures of defence equipment with a view to pursuing a procurement policy that ensures repurchase agreements and is consistent with Norwegian foreign policy objectives. Repurchase is an important instrument in an active industrial policy. For example, if we: decide to buy new fighter aircraft to the Defense, it will be a national lift. The majority government wants the acquisition of fighter aircraft, in addition to providing the best solution for the defense, to be of benefit to the country in other ways. Therefore, the government has made considerable efforts to show potential suppliers that we have not chosen the aircraft type, and that we are conscious customers. The selection of aeroplane type is fully open. The government has placed great emphasis on communicating that all suppliers are involved. Suppliers have clearly shown that they have understood just that. We will make strict demands for the involvement of the Norwegian industry. The Government is now reviewing the current industrial policy strategy to further develop the competence of the Norwegian industry to support the defence materials, to strengthen Norwegian industry’s ability to participate internationally and to ensure that Norwegian companies are best placed to deliver material to the Defence in areas where this is deemed appropriate. This work will assess the aspects of this proposal. Let it be clear that this government will pursue an active industrial policy, and we will follow this up in close dialogue with industry, defence and relevant authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e799	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e802	When we want to continue to promote this proposal, which some have clearly asked us not to do – uncertainly for what reason – it is because of what is at the end of the majority decision: ‘to be annexed to the Protocol’. Experiencedly, having been at Stortinget for many years, we know that attaching something to the protocol can be the same as doing nothing, and that this is completely non-committal. Although the Council of State has now explained that she is working on this matter – and I hope that is quite right, of course – we need an explanation of a strategy for how she intends to proceed. When will she possibly come back to Stortinget and explain what has happened in the case – when we now promote this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e810	Every year, the defense acts for approx. 9 billion kroner. We are totally dependent on working closely with our defence industry to get the best products and to have a viable industry as well. It's the government's busy. In addition, we are engaged in the cooperation agreement with the EDA, because it allows us both to participate internationally in defence projects and also to benefit the industry from international projects. I think – with all due respect – that in this government we have shown that we have been very concerned about the industry. We have been very concerned about, for example: the area of repurchase. We have had a strong dialogue with the potential suppliers of fighter aircraft in question and, as I also said in my post, will focus on this aspect if it becomes relevant to consider new fighter aircraft.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e817	Bjorn Jacobsen – in line?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e820	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e825	It was not a line, and then you have to wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e828	Okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e833	Are there any others who have asked for the word to appear? - It's not. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e838	In the answer letter from the Minister of Defence to the Defence Committee on the subject, the Council of State stresses that she is concerned with the issues raised by the Progress Party in its Document No. Eight proposals. But it actually helps little to be concerned about something, if you don't do anything about it. The government has now been in office for one year, but the attitude towards the acquisition of defence and related industrial cooperation agreements is as passive as under the Government of Bondevik. In the letter of reply, the Council of State said, among other things. that the Government ‘desires the defence to engage financially in selected projects’ and that it assumes ‘industrial participation’. However, this is too passive. The financial situation of Norway, in combination with our industrial and technological competences and not least our excellent research environment, suggests that Norway should be a driver of international material development projects. As a driver, we can demand what we industrially want to achieve, and not as today, where we have been awarded industrial offers developed by defence companies and authorities of other countries. Norway should use its comparative financial advantage to participate in projects on the basis of the long-term technological advantage of participation. The ring-fenced effects of commercial activities are also very high, and these are jobs that require high technological skills and are the industries of the future. It will not be possible to calculate such effects in advance. For example, who wanted to. Have you thought that the composite material used in our MTBs would also be a suitable material in the wings of the more and more windmills built around Europe? Or that the defense's bet on ship simulators would make Norway the world leader in ship simulators for commercial shipping? The United States, the United Kingdom and France inject all significant billions into research and development in the defence industry. For example, the US invested 0.6 pst. of its gross domestic product in defence R & D last year, while the corresponding figure for the United Kingdom was 0,2 pst. They do not do this because they necessarily have concrete plans to acquire the material being developed, but because they know that the defence industry is the gateway to other high-tech industries. They actively use the exemptions under WTO, EU and EEA law. In Norway, the position has been that the EU market is likely to open up to competition in the future, and this has been used as an argument against defence industry. It's going to be relatively pointless. The Party of Advances notes that the Government is constantly talking about cooperation with the opposition, but notes that even when the largest opposition party of the Storting is promoting proposals that the Government itself says are in line with its own declaration of adventure, there is no willingness to cooperate. Yes, it even chooses to vote against something it says it is for. That is why the Progress Party wants to promote this proposal. As the representative Petersen said, we all agree. If we all agree, we will vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e851	As the debate has gone on, I think it is important to find out that the purchase and sale of all defence equipment should first and foremost be assessed in terms of a threat need. Are there any threats that can legitimize that sale or purchase? Or can we risk being in a drive that increases the defence industry more and more? It's in the military-industrial concept that we're spending more and more on defense. The figure today is about $1,000 billion on defence, $300 billion on exports, subsidies and blends, and very little $50-60 billion on aid. It should be a target, including for the Norwegian stockpiling, that this should be reversed. All the time, there are issues from the government that SV sees as quite clearly driving towards increasing military spending. Although it will provide good ringing for Norwegian technology and Norwegian technology companies, we will be very sceptical about it. If this proposal is sent over and the government comes back with it, I don't exactly feel that it will be driving compared to increasing defence expenditure. It is up to the Government to consider when they may come back with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e856	The next speaker is Jan Petersen, who is currently the last sign-up speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e859	That was basically what I was concerned about too, because I asked the Progress Party how they interpret the fact that their proposal is being downgraded. I would like an answer to that, because in it we can see whether this proposal is solely about opening doors, or whether there is a difference in reality. As I read and perceive the matter, the government has been as attentive as it is possible to the proposal that is. As such, this matter has been relatively unnecessary, in the sense that this would be done by the Government at any rate. But if that's how it's going to happen now something other than what the government has warned, if this proposal had to be adopted, I'll know, but as I can read this, it's turning open the doors. To the representative Tybring-Gjedde, I must say that this is not what Stortinget normally spends its time on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e866	I have to take a little line on the representative Petersen. He's talking about turning open the doors. Well, then it's really just to vote for our proposal, that's not what happens. It doesn't help to be present, as Petersen claims the Council of State is. Of course she is, but it doesn't just help to say that. Nothing's happening. That is why, yesterday, we also called for a defence commission to be set up, because the Government of Soria Moria has said that this should be done. Then it goes on for a whole year, and nothing happens. That's why we're very sceptical about this case. It's said a lot of nice words, and it's written to the committee that, well, this is what we're doing, we're going to fix this, and we're going to fix this. Nothing is happening and therefore a decision has to be taken on the part of the obligatory. It is not the majority proposal – it should be annexed to the Minutes. Well, what happens next? There is no obligation to attach any attached protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e872	Jan Petersen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e875	The impression that is now being created must not remain. There's a pretty sure tradition in this room because when the government says it wants to do something and has written it to the Storting, something is of course going to happen. Not all these proposals from the Progress Party that have been promoted over the years are necessary in order for something to happen. They can, for example, go to the village and pretend as if they have influenced a development, but no one must believe that they have actually done so. Of course, we have been struggling with this for many years, but it does not change by the fact that proposals are still being made. The Progress Party operates too many late-on-the-spot policies. This is probably an example of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e880	I will not prohibit the Progress Party from promoting a minority proposal in this Chamber. But what's funny about this case is that we have had committee treatment, there are unanimous committee comments throughout the setting, and there has never been any suggestion from any minority, because we have agreed. So it shows up as a troll of box, some time last day, that FrP wants to be down on that proposal anyway. And then there is reason to ask: what is the purpose when a majority decision can be taken here where it is decided to attach the proposal to the Minutes? It is quite common in Stortinget that matters are attached to the protocol. This means that you also get a say in a matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e885	I'm not going to decide what happened in the defense committee. But what must be obvious also for the representative Petersen is that a decision in the Stortinget has more strength than what is attached to the protocol. It's quite obvious! There are many examples of things annexed to the Protocol coming back to Stortinget in a completely different form than what was the intention of the promoter. If the representative Petersen is concerned about the proposals of the Progress Party, this is not exactly the case to address that type of issue. There are other places to do it. So now we are discussing a concrete proposal for increased investment and a new nutrition strategy for the defence industry, and that is what we need to address in this matter. If you wish – and that is also in line with what the Council of State says about the Soria Moria declaration – you can therefore vote in favour. If you want Right, they can vote in favour. You don't have to vote against just to protest against the Progress Party. In fact, the Progress Party is right in this case – that we are a little earlier than both the previous government that spent four years not promoting anything, and also a little earlier than this government that has spent one year not promoting anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e894	The representative Width has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e897	If we have not promoted this proposal in the vote, it is a matter of incursion. The representative of Signe Eye knows that well, for I have talked to her about this several times. Yet she pulls this up as if it were something new. It's definitely not. It is the Progress Party which promoted this proposal as a document No. Eight proposals, and that would be lacking only if we did not also promote them as a proposal in this Chamber. It's simply an incursion, and this is explained, both to Jan Petersen, to Signe Eye and to the Committee on Other Things, so this is nothing new. But if you want to do a number of it, you want to do it. It does not matter, because the Progress Party will promote this as a proposal. It shall be binding, and it shall not be the proposal that the Committee has otherwise come up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e904	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 15th [[Food, see page 2729]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e920	Document No 5 for 2005–2006, the Ombudsman’s Office for the Reporting of Defence, merges into the range of previous reports and does not differ that much from the previous one. We can read that the denominator has had five meetings as well as a number of inspections. The Committee has noted that 106 complaints were dealt with in 2005 and that a contribution of more than one third is similar to the average in recent years. Like the Committee, the Committee has noted that the conversion and downsizing of the defence have not resulted in a particularly increasing number of written appeals. On the other hand, the Committee notes that the Ombudsman’s inspections in some departments have argued that the financial resources do not cover the tasks to be resolved and that there is a general dissatisfaction with horizontal interaction. In addition, it has been argued that in the conversion of defence there is too much focus on the number of heads and too little focus on the tasks to be solved. The Committee would stress the importance of having an open and good dialogue with defence personnel in the further conversion of defence. The Committee has noted that the financial/accounting procedures in the Defence seem to work satisfactorily in 2005 and that there is only one appeal case on this subject. The Committee is pleased that the defence appears to have been controlled on its procedures and training in this field. The Committee has also noted that problems with access to doctors in some departments have been solved or are facing a solution. We are concerned that the soldiers will receive a satisfactory medical offer during the service. We agree that access to own doctors in the departments provides the fastest treatment, and therefore the most effective service. The Committee is committed to the good follow-up of the trustee board and to the continued prioritisation of the TMO and HMS courses. The Committee welcomes the fact that the issue of post-international damage has also been at the heart of the work of the committee in 2005. Furthermore, the Committee is pleased that the Committee will follow developments closely in 2006, in particular with regard to financial resources and access to professional personnel. Similarly, the Committee considers that, in addition to the establishment of a national military outpatient clinic, together with the psychiatric/psycho-somatic follow-up of personnel, the Swedish Veterinary Administration will make a valuable contribution to the work on sensitising problems. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Progressive Party and the Right, would nevertheless point out, however, that there is still a shortage of sanitation resources and a shortage of medical personnel with adequate competence in international operations. This clearly has a negative impact on the medical quality and capability of the defence. Here, the Workers' Party and SV have a slightly different interpretation. Otherwise, the Committee agrees that reporting on the disciplinary situation in 2005 has been alarming. Otherwise, there are some particular comments, and to the extent that the individual parties feel like it, they will probably comment on this for themselves. There is also a remark from the majority, all except the members of the Progress Party, saying that one is concerned that every sixth soldier who graduated ended up in unemployment. It is also the Progress Party – it should just be missing. But this can't be the defense problem, it's the society that should have a responsibility to capture this and help the soldiers when they graduate. You're not in Defense just to go on a course. The Committee took note of the fact that the call for first-time attendance in January 2006 proved more difficult than in the past for students to be granted the first-time leave. The Committee believes it is important that the defence demonstrates the necessary flexibility in calling and postponing students. The Committee notes that the Committee notes that the experience gained under the January quota in 2006 will benefit from the convening of the January quota in 2007 and that the following will follow developments in this area. The Committee has also noted that the defence has increased its drug-prevention work somewhat compared to 2004 and that this has resulted in increased awareness and competence in the field. The Progress Party takes note that FSAN, the Sanity of Defence, is concerned that a consequence of this is that the incidence of mental problems will rise against the figures experienced by Americans. The Party notes that FSAN is of the opinion that, in order to prevent such development, for example: The army has at least five battalions to ensure recovery between missions and maintain the family and social networks of personnel. The Progress Party, like the Swedish Veterinary Administration, considers that, in addition to the establishment of a national military outpatient clinic together with the psychiatric/psycho-somatic follow-up of personnel, will make valuable contributions to the work on sensitising problems. However, the Progress Party would nevertheless point out that there is still a shortage of sanitary facilities and a shortage of medical personnel with sufficient competence in international operations. This clearly has a negative impact on the medical quality and capability of the defence. The Progress Party notes that in recent years Norwegian politicians and defence management have wanted to contribute to a greater extent than in the past to clean combat departments for use in ‘sharp’ operations. We are concerned that cuttings can therefore mean more jobs and re-use of personnel, which means greater burdens on the personnel and their families. The Progress Party is concerned that the economic resources of most departments do not cover the tasks to be solved. This shows that there is no consistency between the tasks entrusted to the departments and the framework within which the management of the defence is required to follow. It is an unfortunate situation, in the view of the Progress Party, and it must be expected that the departments are not entrusted with tasks for which there is no resources. It is in the opinion of the Progress Party that the senior management of the Defence is responsible for adapting tasks assigned to the departments according to the resource frameworks provided by the Stortinget. If the senior management of the Defence does not have the power to perform the tasks assigned to them through the current budgets, the management of the Defence Service must take a service path to the Storting and present those cases that reflect the lack of resources so that the Storting can assess whether additional funds are to be allocated for the purpose or whether the tasks should be re-prioritized. It is not up to the management of the defence to go beyond their powers and appropriations in order to carry out tasks they consider important, all the time they do not have to prioritise within the given appropriations. The Progress Party expects the Ministry of Defence to review its procedures in this area. The Progress Party is concerned that a possible general uncertainty about the future of the organisation has led to the cessation of highly skilled personnel. We view the personnel as the most important resource in defence and are therefore very concerned that the personnel situation in defence is improved, and that the size of the organisation must reflect the tasks assigned to it. The party notes that there seems to be a general dissatisfaction with the arrangements for horizontal interaction. We expect this to be reviewed in the organisation, and that it will be reviewed in later cases in Stortinget. We have also noticed that many departments have vacant posts that are not occupied. This makes it apparent, in the opinion of the Progress Party, that the Defence Departments choose to re-prioritize their resources in order to discharge their assigned tasks at the expense of maintaining an organisation with the necessary number of personnel in relation to the structural plan. It is therefore also worrying that the reduction in annual work makes the organisation vulnerable to the protection provisions Health – Environment – Safety. With this I present the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e969	The Labour Party is well pleased with the work of the Defence Ombudsman in his report on the activities for 2005. The report is interesting reading and tells a lot about what's going on in Defense, about what works well, and in areas where there are challenges. The report should therefore be read as a whole with its references and recommendations. I still want to draw four points from the report. Firstly, the Labour Party is satisfied that the tough conversion and downsizing of the defence have not resulted in any particular increase in the number of complaints. On the other hand, we note that the Ombudsman’s inspections in some departments have argued that the economic resources do not cover the tasks to be solved, and that there is a general dissatisfaction with horizontal interaction, and that in addition, the conversion of the defence is an overfocused focus on the number of heads and the lack of focus on the tasks to be solved. An overall committee therefore underlines the importance of having an open and good dialogue with defence personnel in the further conversion of defence. I would like to stress that the new government attaches importance to good cooperation with the employees, and that in the Soria Moria Declaration we have announced that we will go through the experience of downsizing, privatisation and tenders as well as horizontal interaction. This was discussed, inter alia: also during yesterday's treatment of the financial management of the Defence. Secondly, the Ombudsman addresses the issue of late injuries following international operations and points out that there is a lack of sanitation resources and medical staff with adequate competence in international operations. The working party is therefore pleased that a joint committee, like the committee, emphasises the importance of a thorough assessment of the problem of late injuries following international operations, and that the conclusions result in the necessary measures and access to resources. I would also like to commend the defence that 1 February of this year set up a separate veterinary administration to follow up personnel who have participated in international operations. Thirdly, it is worrying that every six graduates ended up in unemployment in 2005. At a time when an increasingly small proportion of a year's coal undertakes initial service, it is important that adult defence training is maintained at a level that ensures that vulnerable ratings are offered an offer of a course of competence that can qualify and assist them in transition to the labour market after the initial service has been completed. Fourthly and finally, the call for first-time services with attendance in January 2006 proved more difficult for students to be granted the first-time service. I am therefore pleased that a joint committee points to the importance of the defence showing the necessary flexibility in terms of calling and postponement for students. However, the working party would stress that this does not mean a general exemption from the provision of first-time student service. The defence must seek to reflect society and the rest of the population by means of first-time guardians.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e984	The Ombudsman’s report reviews areas that are important for defence, and I would like to take the opportunity to say a little about some issues. The defence is responsible for ensuring that personnel with physical or mental damage resulting from service in international operations receive the necessary follow-up in the civil health system after returning to Norway. The Christian People's Party agrees that it is important to focus on what is happening both in the short and long term, when the soldiers come back. Many people need help after finishing their duties. The new veterinary administration to accompany personnel in need of assistance after participating in sharp operations abroad is an important and positive measure. The Veterinary Administration shall provide follow-up in areas such as law, social affairs and medical matters. The defence shall also establish a separate website where the relevant information for the veterans is collected. The Committee therefore believes that, in addition to a national military outpatient clinic together with the psychiatric/psycho-somatic follow-up of personnel, the Swedish Veterinary Administration will make valuable contributions to the work on late-onset problems. However, this also refers to the lack of sanitation resources and the lack of medical personnel with adequate competence in international operations, which clearly has a negative impact on the medical quality and capacity of the defence. The Christian People's Party supports the Committee's emphasis on the importance of giving a thorough assessment of the problem of sensitivities following international operations, and that the conclusions result in the necessary measures and resources. Finally, I would like to say a little about Adult Education in Defence. It is important that it continues to be perceived as a real compensation for the year in which the initial service is served, as well as as as a status-enhancing measure. The fact that the number of job vacancies after education is increasing is worrying, and it is very important that adult training can actually offer vulnerable crews a course of competence that can qualify and help them in their transition to working life after the end of their first job. In addition to earmarking funds for adult training, a priority list should also be established, in which the guardians continue to have priority, in order to ensure that their training needs are met.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1001	I don't really need to add so much, really just a very small marginal comment on the theme that Sahl and others have been dealing with, namely international operations and sensitivities. I really just want to underline three points. One is that this is something the Committee and the Storting are very concerned about, and that we are going to follow closely. The second thing is that when you read the setting, you'll see that we split into a little different comments. I believe, on the other hand, that we could have written this together, in the sense that there is a common belief that there are some important challenges that need to be met here. My third point is that I think the Progress Party has an important point when, in its remark, they underline the relationship between the size of our defense here at home and how much we can do outside, and that there is a relationship between this that must also have the leads for what we're going to do here at home. The smaller the defenses that are set up here at home, the fewer we will often be able to recruit, and it is important for us both in this and in other contexts to have awareness of this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1010	At the end of the debate, I just want to make a comment about late injuries. Where we have the greatest experience of this on a world-wide basis, the Soviet Union is waging war in Afghanistan and the United States of America in Vietnam. Many could have been said about the two wars, but above all, the solar data did not support homes in their own people. They came home, and they may have believed – at least some of them – that they were heroes. But they weren't, they were almost partially dishonoured in their own homeland, and it reinforced all the possible delays that they had to have after the experiences out there. It shows that future international operations must be legitimized in all possible ways, and not least one must have support in the people from which one is sent. So what are people getting sick of out there? It's primarily by experiencing things that they haven't gotten good enough practice in. What is directly irregular, what is happening in violation of international law, what is happening in violation of the Geneva Treaty, are, of course, the worst things people experience. What makes this experience even worse is if you try to report it further and the events you have experienced are not taken seriously. This has partly emerged after the Norwegian soldier experienced in Lebanon. This is also a replay of many soldiers who are out there. They're reporting on, like, memory and experiences that they've had, but it's not going to be serious enough. Here we must improve this work to an even greater extent. But as I said, legitizing tasks so that the mission is perceived as important, both in the country you are in and in the country you come from, is perhaps the most important thing you can do in terms of avoiding delays.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1019	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 2729]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1035	Today, we are dealing with one of many issues relating to adapting the EEA Agreement to a new directive promoted by the European Commission and subsequently adopted by the European Parliament. The issue we are dealing with today is a directive on minimum safety in tunnels. However, this matter is a little special. It was updated after tragic tunnel fires on the continent a few years ago. The EU Commission subsequently started work on a new safety directive. Through our EEA membership, we were given the opportunity to participate in and influence the design of the final directive. The proposal that was issued would mean the hook on the door for many of our planned underwater tunnels, among others. Here, a solid piece of work has been done by Norwegian authorities, primarily by the Directorate of Roads, but also by our EU delegation. This makes it possible for us today, with an overall increase, to recommend that the Directive be incorporated into the EEA Agreement. However, it also shows that a small country can achieve important results when maintaining a high professional level and moving in the right way, including towards a large organisation such as the EU. It is tempting then to think a little freely about what we could have achieved with corresponding solid work if we had been a member of the EU. But I'm supposed to let that lie today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1048	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 17. [[Food, see page 2729]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1064	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1073	The representatives Hoksrud and Halleraker have promoted a private document No. 8 proposals containing two proposals: to amend the Transport Professional Act for persons over 70 years of age and to introduce a derogation system until such a legislative amendment is made. Right, Advance Party and Left also promote their own suggestions in the vote. All proposers shall be provided with the background and the arguments for the proposals in a moment. First, a little bit about the committee's examination of the document. The third paragraph of Section 37a of the Occupational Transport Act sets the upper age limit for driving tickets to 70 years. The majority of the Committee refers to the fact that the upper age limit for holding a driving licence is justified on the one hand by general road safety considerations and on the other by the responsibilities of a professional driver for his passengers on the other. The majority emphasises that road safety considerations must always weigh heavily. Furthermore, the majority of the Committee considers that it is wise to maintain the difference between the provisions on driving licences and the provisions on driving licences, due to passenger liability. There is a difference between driving with or without passengers. The risk should be assessed differently for a driver in professional transport, who is responsible for a bus full of passengers, than for one who is to drive a private car or truck without passengers. It is also expected that the authorities will ensure the safety of passengers in public transport, while in the case of private car transport, the passenger is usually familiar with the driver and can assess the situation himself. The majority support the arguments put forward by the proposers for the importance of facilitating the work of the seniors. It is an objective that older workers should continue to work as long as possible. It is important to prevent exclusion from the labour market, and the senior citizens of the labour market should remain longer in professional activity if they so wish. This is a very important argument. In its opinion to the Committee, the Council of State states that she will return to the Storting case as soon as possible and with any proposals for amendments. In view of this, the majority would like to attach the protocol to the document. I would like to make a few comments on some aspects of the proposal. A year ago, quite exactly, the Progress Party presented a similar proposal. The majority then decided to attach the document to the protocol, but during the examination of the document, the relationship with the EU/EEA and other European countries became dominant. The majority of the Committee considered that the issue of the harmonisation of age provisions of the Professional Transport Act with the rules of other European countries had to be carefully assessed. With regard to the relationship with the EEA, the government concluded that our age limit for driving professional bus services can only be considered as a problem to the extent that the provision can distort competition and that as long as the age limit of 70 is well above the normal retirement age for bus drivers, this limit is not considered problematic in relation to the EEA. For the Christian People's Party, neither competition nor harmonisation arguments weigh more than the safety argument. But, as I said, the senator's argument weighs heavily. We have a goal of facilitating seniors in the workplace. However, this argument cannot be ranked above the safety argument. Nothing is more important than security. The crucial question then arises whether the department and the directorate, in cooperation with the health authorities, will consider the 70-year-olds themselves to be decisive in relation to the suitability of the steering wheel. As far as I remember, about a year ago the Ministry of Transport answered that question: High age in itself does not mean that you are getting worse at sea than you have been before. However, old age increases the risk of serious acute disease cases. Then it is interesting to read the Ministry of Transport's statement this spring, which reads as follows: ‘It is the age itself that poses a threat to the health status of the person, even if the person is otherwise in a fine form and has good pretence.’ It might be interesting to know what is behind these seemingly different opinions and whether the Council of State sees the possibility of possible harmonisation of the road safety argument and the senioar argument.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1097	To the last speaker's reference, it might be time for a senior to take the word here. It is important to clarify that there is a difference between the provisions on driving licences and the provisions on driving licences. It's important and right to maintain this difference. Private passenger car transport where the passenger can assess for himself whether it is safe to ride with the older driver is different and has to be assessed differently from professional transport. This can be decided by people themselves in the case of private individuals, but they cannot choose for themselves in the case of public transport. Thus, an upper age limit for holding a driving licence is justified on the one hand for general road safety reasons and on the other for the responsibility of a professional driver for his passengers. The Labour Party welcomes the signals on the organisation of work for the seniors, and it is important that the rapporteur on this matter also went into detail. And let's say, there are many, many capable drivers over 70 years. In some cases, an older driver may be better than some younger drivers. However, it is a reality that the response capacity is weakened over the years, and so it is in this context that we are talking about security for other people. It is good that the Ministry of Transport, in cooperation with health authorities, among others. shall be assessed as to whether there is an improvement in the level of health among the elderly and whether there is a basis for a change in the rules. The Council of State has therefore underlined that she will assess this matter carefully. The Labour Party therefore considers the matter to be in the best hands and may recommend that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1108	Many politicians are committed to arguing for the importance of increasing the number of workers in the labour market. The two previous speakers have also been very concerned that older workers will be allowed to remain longer in the workplace, but not this working group. This is a very important case for many older workers who are currently driving both buses, taxis and other types of passenger transport, and who are filling or soon reaching the age of 70. The majority of the Committee points out that traffic considerations must always weigh heavily. Of course, everyone agrees that this is very important, and that it should be given very great weight. However, we believe that there is a major deficiency in the arguments of the majority of the committee, because this matter is not just about whether people over 70 years of age should be able to operate passenger services or not, but it is a matter of whether or not they should be able to operate passenger services and be allowed to pay for it. So it is not a question of whether you should be allowed to operate a passenger service by bus or taxi after you have reached the age of 70, but it is a question of whether you should be allowed to pay or not for this service. As the law actually is today, it is such that a person who has reached the age of 70 can well drive a trailer of 50 tonnes or even 56 tonnes, and this he can also charge for as long as he has passed a medical check and meets the requirements for retaining his Class 2 driving licence. It may be that driving a trailer of 50 or 56 tonnes in the event of an accident involving a trailer or a lorry may also lead to a certain risk. In addition, foreign drivers who have reached the age of 70 can drive as much as they want and heel in Norway and pay for it, without breaching the law. If a Norwegian driver chooses to move e.g. to Sweden and get a Swedish driving licence, he can come back to Norway and drive as much as he like with his Swedish driving licence. In addition, Norwegian drivers who have reached the age of 70 can drive as much as they want and charge for it as soon as they cross the border of Svinesund or one of the other border crossings in Norway, and then they drive fully legally. Today's legislation is in stark contrast to the Committee's majority comment on road safety issues, when you can drive as much passenger transport as you want, as long as you don't pay for it. The question is therefore: is it that a person who pays to be transported is worth more than the person who does not pay to be transported? After being told and showing how the law actually works, the law and how it is enforced become something special. In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State also states that the issue of opening up exemptions from the Professional Transport Act § 37a is to be further assessed, in cooperation with the health authorities, in order to determine whether there has been an improvement in the level of health among the elderly, and whether there is a basis for a change of rules. Also the last time this case was dealt with in Stortinget, this had to be carefully assessed before any changes would be made to the law. So finally, a timely question has to be, how long does it take to evaluate this question before you can make a final decision? I will be allowed to take up the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1130	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1133	The representative Hoksrud gave a thorough and good account of our proposal, but allowed me a few comments. This is also a matter of non-discrimination between drivers from Norway and from other countries, perhaps mainly Nordic countries. In other words, it is an adaptation to the EU acquis we are proposing here – a justice towards the Nordics, in other words. It is true, however, that the representative Sahl was talking about: the senior perspective is important. The goal of keeping at work people who want, can and have health, is expressed by many. Healthily, many people believe that 70-year-olds today are speakers than 70-year-olds 27 years ago. That is why I am pleased that the Council of State in its letter draws this up and will assess this in cooperation with the health authorities. I interpret basically the comments from both the Directorate of Road and the Council of State in her letter to the effect that one is willing to look into this relationship and come back to the Stortinget with the matter. For us as proposers, it's a bit on the way. I look forward to the matter coming back fairly quickly. That shouldn't be so complicated. We should preferably have seen that we today adopted an exemption scheme and then got a case about a change in the law, but this does not seem to be the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1146	The left wants seniors to welcome to work, and sees it as very positive that seniors want to take an active part in working life. It is therefore positive that we now have a debate on the participation of senior citizens in professional transport. It is also the case that we have to take passengers seriously in any case. It is a fact of development in our country that we have got more and more people driving by school bus, over longer and longer distances. That is why we must in any case be sure that we have a safe passenger transport service and maintain a certainty that passenger and public transport services are safe in Norway, both for passengers and for other road users. It is therefore necessary to consider road safety and passenger safety very seriously in this case. The left considers that it is important that any amendment to the Professional Transport Act is based on a sound professional basis. We therefore want an assessment of the law to see if there is a professional basis for changing today's regulations. The left will clarify that emphasis should be placed on the increased level of individual treatment of individual drivers in the law. I have in fresh memory a man well above the age limit mentioned here, who drove the school bus both safely and well on not quite good roads somewhere in Middle Norway, to say it that way. That is why I have also noticed that both the Road Directorate and the Council of State, which underlies road safety, which I am pleased to do, are also open to individual assessments. We therefore see it as positive that such work is described, and should have liked it to have happened faster. But in the light of the review that I think it is right to do, I think it is right to convert the Left's proposal into a transmission proposal in the committee setting, which I am addressing. I do that in the context of the comments of the Directorate of Roads, as the Council of State has reproduced them, and what the Council of State says in its response to the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1157	The representative Odd Einar Dørum has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1160	Professional transport laws set the upper age limit for the running seat to 70 years. Age limits have been consulted with the health authorities. There is no way to give general dispensation as the laws are today. Therefore, the proposal cannot be implemented without legal changes. Once I informed the Storting that I am working on a change in the law, the proposal seemed to be a purely demonstration proposal. An upper age limit for the running seat is, on the one hand, grounds of general road safety and, on the other hand, the responsibility of a professional driver for his passengers. Older people have a relatively high risk of acute disease and have longer response time and weight vision compared to younger ones. I notice that the majority indicates that there is a particular concern when it comes to professional passenger transport. Passengers’ care must be taken to weigh heavily. Passengers often have no choice with regard to the choice of carrier, and have to be aware that authorities have made the necessary adjustments to ensure passengers when using public transport. When it comes to private passenger car transport, passengers usually know the driver and can refrain from accompanying an older driver after an individual assessment of the situation. Therefore, the assessments will be something different here than for public transport drivers. The Directorate of Roads has assessed several issues related to the age requirement for running seats. The Directorate recommends that there is an upper limit to the seat of the running seat, but believes that there might be reason to consider whether this limit should be higher than today. If we are to change the age limit in the legislation, it must be done in consultation with the health authorities and, where appropriate, because the health authorities find that the higher level of health in the elderly is appropriate. There may also be grounds for assessing an exemption scheme, but there is also a need to assess the grounds for this. In consultation with the health authorities, I would like to be able to assess whether there is a basis for a regulatory change in professional transport laws in this area. I want to inform Stortinget about the further work on this. I want to come back with a rule change proposal if the reviews we are currently making provide a basis for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1176	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1179	I'm not sure if I heard correctly what the council said. I would like the Council of State to clarify it – whether it is true that she considered the proposal to be a demonstration proposal by the representatives. In addition, I would like to ask the Council of State: Is it not the case that this discussion is about whether you should be paid or not paid for the transport, rather than the road safety aspect? That's something everyone agrees on. But what this is actually about is whether you should be allowed to charge or not charge for this type of passenger transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1186	The size should be known that I have a work going on in this area. It was on that basis that I called the proposal a demonstration proposal – I didn't say it was, it might seem, I said. When it comes to the question of getting paid or not, this is precisely about whether professional drivers should be able to continue in a job, and then it is about getting paid. One implies the other. There is certainly no point for most people to work for free in passenger transport. Of course, most people will be in a paid relationship. In any case, the question will, in good Western, boil down to a question whether a person may allow over 70 years of age to benefit from a derogation from the Transport Code, whether to increase the age limit or, where appropriate, extend the exemption scheme. I want to come back to Stortinget with an assessment and report on the work I have done well for in my answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1195	Another small point to the Council of State: this is a government that I suppose is not only concerned with senior policy, but also with public transport. In fact, public transport is struggling with recruitment, and some companies want to recruit drivers who are 70 years old, but have problems doing so. Does the Council of State see that this proposal is also important in such a context, and that it is important to come back with a speedy solution that will allow collective societies that want to expand their recruitment base, and that need to expand their recruitment base, to also hire drivers who have reached the age of 70?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1202	Yeah, I see that's a point. I also see – and the Government sees it – that it is important to have a good and active senior policy. As was said in an article earlier, it is clear that a 70-year-old today may have better qualifications than he had 29 years ago – well, it was – when the law on transportation was signed. There are definitely good intentions in the proposal. The intentions I want to take with me in the work that I will do, and that I will come back to Stortinget with later.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1207	I would use the line to say from the fact that I was very surprised that the Council of State called Document No. The 8th proposal for a demonstration proposal. I am in fact very close to the position of the Council of State – very close. I have therefore also made the Left's proposal for a transfer proposal. On the basis of previous experience in this Chamber, both as a Council of State and as a representative of big business, I was very surprised by the comment made to the proposers, which I do not in fact agree with. It must be possible to pursue opposition policies in a hall. In a department, I know there's a lot going on. I want to compliment the Council of State that in many ways she is a very committed, intense and hard-working Council of State. But as I said, I was amazed, and I am using the line to express this astonishment to a Council of State that I am very close in my mind in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1214	I notice the representative of Dørum's wonder. I mean, I put it this way that it might seem like – as I said, I didn't say that I meant it was, but that it might seem like – a demonstration proposal. I'm going to be very careful to characterise suggestions and posts from respectable representatives in the Stortinges Hall, so I'm going to take the post from Dørum with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1223	Now, to the extent that the Council of State replied partly to what I would also ask for. But I have an additional question. It is true that we, as wholesalers, also have a significant ombudsman role. There are very many people who are concerned about this relationship. Then it's in place that you get the opportunity to promote such a proposal here in the hall. The Council of State mentioned in its reply to the representative Hoksrud that we should know that such work was in progress. I can't remember that we're orientated about it. If the council could tell us where and when she's done it, I'd be grateful for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1232	I mean that earlier – I should of course have had the date and time – I told Storting that I am working on this matter. In the ministry and as state councils, we are negotiators, and I fully agree with the representative that this is a matter of considerable commitment outside. It's on the basis that the case is signed up, and we're working on a basis to make a decision on the matter. I will come back more specifically. I am sorry that I cannot be entirely specific on the date and time, so I am not allowed to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1237	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1242	I don't think I need 3 minutes, but I think it's in place to say something when the Council of State uses such expressions about proposers and a Document No. 8 proposals that are made in this room, and when you don't know when you've orientated the Storting. For the State Council has just briefed Stortinget about, it is that you do not want to do anything about the matter in 2006. That is precisely why the proposers are promoting the proposal. We want to move forward, and we want older people to be able to get the opportunity to acquire a passenger service even after the age of 70, and we want an exemption for that immediately. I also think it is in its place, as the representative Halleraker also said, to point out that all those who have made contact have been very concerned about this matter and how the Council of State views such a proposal as has been made in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1250	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2729]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1266	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to five lines after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1275	Document No The 8 proposal from the Progress Party gives a good description of the value creation that takes place around the District of Norway. The proposers point out that in many island communities and coastal communities, the only connection or the main connection to the mainland's transport network is ferry and fast boat, and they ask the Government to provide the Stortinget with an assessment of how these communities can be better able to generate economic value. The proposers refer to challenges for island communities where fish and fish products are the most important business. They also point to the special challenges facing fresh product carriers. I expect that the proposers will do their best for their proposal. The Committee's plurality underlines that transport is an important element in bustery, industrial development and resource use. The same plural also means that it's a goal to increase the bet on transportation. All parties, the non-participating Progress Party and the Right, are united in a comment that points out that one should have better discount arrangements on the ferry fleet and that a single ferry connection should be free of charge. This distribution work is under way, and from 1 May 2006, the discount scheme on the ferry fleet has also increased from 40 to 45 pst. The same parties have agreed that the national transport plan is the most appropriate document in the area of coordination of sectoral measures in the field of transport policy and industrial policy. In its work on the design of the National Transport Plan, it has come to grips with and views from both industry and local authorities. The majority agree with the proposers that one should have a survey of island communities and coastal municipalities that are unilaterally dependent on car travel and speedboats, and that these are also conditions that should be covered and mentioned in the national transport plan. That is why it is strange – we can use that word – that the Christian People's Party and the Left, which are part of this plurality, also support the minority proposal in the vote on an own assessment. At the same time, they point out in the plural note that it is natural that this is mentioned and covered in the national transport plan. I'm not sure what minority means by saying that the government is going to give the Storting an assessment of this topic. Does the minority want a case outside the national transport plan? Is it a big message it's a wish? Or do they wish to make a statement in connection with the 2007 budget proposal? This is not revealed either by comments or by the submitted comments. But I guess they want to do well in what way they want this assessment to be presented. The recommendation from the majority is that this be done with the protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1296	For the Workers' Party, it has always been a general objective of district and regional policy to facilitate equivalent living conditions throughout the country and to maintain the main features of the housing pattern. We will stress that transport is an important prerequisite for housing, industrial development and resource use. The public is responsible for the fact that it is a good and modern communications network throughout the country. This is why it is an important objective to facilitate positive developments across the country and to increase the focus on transport. This means, among other things: priority should be given to the development of the road network in the districts, the maintenance of a good national road ferry service and the improvement of ports and fairways. The highway ferries are to be counted as part of the road network. The costs to those using them should be reduced. The government will improve the discount schemes and investigate whether some sections can be made free of charge. I refer to, among other things, work on the National Transport Plan, NTP, for the period 2010–2019 has started. The design of NTP takes place in a thorough planning process, in which coordination of sectoral actions and the gathering of views from local authorities and local businesses is ensured. That is why it is so important to listen to the priorities of the counties. Therefore, the guidelines for the work of the transport network on the basis of a new NTP explicitly state that there should be a high level of emphasis on the involvement of county and metropolitan communities and from user and interest groups in the planning process. The national transport plan is the most appropriate and appropriate document to present to the European Parliament a coordination of sectoral measures in the field of transport policy and industrial policy. The mapping of island communities and coastal communities that are unilaterally dependent on car ferry and fast boat is also something that should and must be part of the NTP process. We must never forget the great value creation that is taking place in these coastal communities, and that the products from there are going to be rapidly to the central and international markets.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1311	I'm going to take a short version -- it's getting a little late in the evening. The suggestion is really self-explanatory, but let me add some points. There is considerable value creation in the fishing industry, and there are often large exports of fresh fish to European markets and also markets that are further away. Of course, the price of fresh fish depends on the freshness of the fish. It's that simple and so difficult. Fish that are read up on trailers overnight awaiting the first ferry the next day, because the last ferry of the day has passed, get reduced durability and reduced price. For many island communities and many coastal communities without a fixed road link to the national road network, and thus without a fixed road link to important markets, business activities may be regarded as risk sports. That is why we come with the proposal. The party is happy that both the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left are present. I would like to say to the President-in-Office that it is worded openly, in the hope of getting more people involved. Unfortunately, we do not succeed in that. Let me be quite clear that we don't want to wait four years through a long, heavy, new planning process for a new national transport plan. We believe that it must be possible to get grips faster than to wait for a heavy planning process for four years. It's actually the government itself demonstrated to be ambiguity, because it's 1 million. kr for extra night travel – a little further south than where part of these main issues exist, but it is thus put in 1 million. kr extra for the night vacation in Rogaland. So you've come to terms with it. Many others could want more departures — perhaps not night trips, but more departures. So this government can do it if they want to. It would be nice if you did some grips, for example. in the next budget, and took into account part of the island communities and coastal communities that actually need a few more ferry trips, so that business and value creation are no longer as marked by risk sports. I'm addressing the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1324	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1327	I note that the majority also agree with the relationship that has been raised here, and that greater attention should be paid. The majority refer the matter to the NTP work, while the overall opposition is more impatient and asks for an assessment of measures now. I'm not going to extend the debate unnecessarily, just pointing to a relationship that I think deserves attention. We are talking here about an important business in island communities that often consists of export businesses, especially for fish and fish products, where both time and cost are important to competition with other countries. It must then be important to reduce costs initially, i.e. as early as possible in the product’s value-added and cost chain. Just waiting costs, time games, lack of holiday offers and vacation costs are important for the further increase in the value of the export product. Processing and transport costs are also part of the way to the market for the product. Therefore, as an export-oriented nation, Norway has earned the lowest possible cost, at the earliest possible level, on the export route. That is why this attention deserves attention now, and not in three to four years’ time. Of course, the Council of State is quite free to consider how she will report back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1336	There is broad consensus that it is a general objective of rural and regional policy to facilitate equivalent living conditions throughout the country and to maintain the main features of the housing pattern. It is true, as the proposers point out, that many coastal and island communities have a good economic development and contribute greatly to the creation of value in the country. In the districts, most of our natural resources are located. The value creation here forms the basis for well-being both in the districts and in urban areas. But it is a fact that the number of people in the districts is falling. In addition, there is a centralisation within the districts, where the flow flows from peripheral municipalities to regional centres. We depend on people living in regions with rich natural resources. Therefore, through different instruments, we need to shift focus from moving from moving to moving. Through different instruments, living on the outskirts must be made more attractive. A good rural policy depends on policy in all areas. Agriculture policy, fisheries policy, policy towards the municipality sector and other industrial policies are essential in this context. The same applies to the ability of municipalities to organise and solve problems. However, transport is also an important prerequisite for housing, industrial development and resource use, and the public is responsible for a good and modern communications network throughout the country. Distance costs are one of the major challenges for the rural economy. Better communication solutions are important for positive development. A well-functioning, profitable, diverse and active business is a prerequisite for ensuring the well-being of the community and the quality of living and living of the urban and rural areas. In recent years, the industry has been challenged by increased competition. The Bondevik II government was given control of the exchange rate and interest rate developments. It has created new optimism in business, including in the districts. Now we see trends in rising interest rates and higher costs, which can lead to closures and deflagration, and thus job losses. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that business always has competitive conditions. Enterprise policy is closely linked to welfare and cultural policy. In business setting, it is also important to be able to offer a good community of good schools, kindergartens, health and cultural services. But transport policy is no less central: better infrastructure, good roads and other transport solutions are important. We should ensure transport solutions that are appropriate for business and local communities. In the work on the national transport plan, the various measures in the various sectors are coordinated and the views of local authorities and local businesses are sought. It is good that the national transport plan is a comprehensive plan with a total focus on society. It's important to see contexts – everything is related to everything. The Christian People's Party agrees that a survey of island communities and coastal communities that are unilaterally dependent on car ferries and speedboats should also be seen, among others. in the context of the national transport plan process. But we believe it is important for the Stortinget to have a thorough assessment of how island communities and coastal communities that are one-sided in terms of transport depending on car ferries and speedboats can be given a better opportunity for industrial valuation. We are therefore involved in the minority proposal on this issue, and challenge the Council of State to respond positively to the minority's proposals this time. In a letter to the Committee, the Council of State states that the Government will present its own major communication on regional and regional policy, including: transport policy will be an important instrument. The Christian People's Party is looking forward to addressing this message as well. And I want to add that here there is also an opportunity to respond to this Document No. The 8th proposal. In conclusion, I would like to mention that of course the Christian People's Party supports the State Council's clarification that the county councils and municipalities have a responsibility to contribute to the desired regional development, and that the Storting should not go into direct action and impose obligations on the county council. The aim must be to strengthen the coast and districts and to strengthen local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1362	For the Left, as for the majority, it is a general objective of regional and regional policy to facilitate equivalent living conditions throughout the country and to maintain the main features of the housing pattern. In coastal districts, local transport by fast boat and ferries plays an important role. This is not least the case in areas without fixed road connections, and in the case of both freight and passenger transport. And with some experience from Norwegian transport policy, I would say that sometimes the challenges are similar to the challenges of advanced motorsport. Much is required to ensure what we know, namely, that Norwegian export companies often have a very long and expensive transport route to their markets, and for companies where the first part of the road network is not road but ferries, distance congestion is reinforced if there is poor capacity and low frequency on ferries. An instrument for ensuring adequate quality and regularity of ferry services lies in the purchase by the State of national road haulage services which may also be extended to the designation of funds for individual ferry connections or quick-boat connections according to specific criteria. In this context, as other speakers, I would also like to point out that the Government of the revised budget for 2006 has just made use of this possibility through the proposal for an increase in the item ‘Buying of national road transport services’ by 1 million. kr to cover the extension of the offer of night ferries in the Stavanger-Tau link from 1 June 2006. This is one of the ferry links/areas mentioned by the proposers. For other of the mentioned connections/areas – and I mention them: the Lovund and the HALD project – it is not about night-riding, but mainly about day-/evening ferries, which can ensure that fresh fish loaded on vehicle trains actually come from farm the same day the vehicle combination is loaded and that travellers can arrive and return within a reasonable time frame in professional and private context. It is therefore important that the Government carry out an assessment of all relevant island and coastal communities where ferry connections and quick-boat connections are essential for value creation. Expenditure for the country through the purchase of national road haulage services or the earmarked purchase of other short-term ferry services may provide a good social return in the longer term. This can work well with desired policy objectives and strategies in other policy areas, thus ensuring good cross-sectoral, socio-economic impacts. The Left therefore supports the proposal that the Government should provide the Stortinget with an assessment of how the island communities and coastal communities, as transport-related, are unilaterally dependent on car ferries and speedboats, can be better able to generate economic value. Let me give a personal consideration to that, because sometimes I've been close to businesses in these island communities, and that's how it smells raw and efficient capitalism, in the sense that people are on, and they create something. In some places, it has even been felt that county councils with little money are able to concentrate their small resources, precisely to ensure that local road networks are secured. Such an example is Averøy on the North Sea, and when you're close to having that willingness to lift locally, you also invite you to make a commitment to an interaction between the local and the national. Then I've also been on some of the roads in Hordaland. I'm not going to comment on them, except that there's asphalt on highways from the 1950s. Weisef Martinsen in his time put asphalt on the road, but occasionally the curve was doubtful. Then we have to say that on parts of the coast we have built good connections. That's all possible reason to be happy about it, it's positive, and I'm one of the Norwegian politicians who's proud when I try to meet, for example. American journalists who don't understand part of the tunnels that we have on the coast. Then I often try to translate them into dollar terms, and then they get a little bit listening, because they're not going to think about the number of cars that run there, but they're going to think about the value that comes out in many ways. It is the peculiar thing about Norway that we are able to create such a development, if anyone with a narrow business-economic outlook does not understand it, even though of course it is incredibly good business and social economy that competitive companies can deliver their products and keep up market shares in areas that are important to us. And we know what areas it is, we know that fish are big for Norway, we know that everything that has to do with it is very important to us. So it's not just with a formal, but with a significant intellectual and emotional commitment that I agree with the proposal taken up by my party trap Borghild Tende in the committee, and as a substitute, it's a great pleasure to express these testimonies in an evening meeting in the Stortinget. Because we're probably going to get other types of testimony during the next case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1379	I think I would like to rent out saying that this is another matter in which I perceive that there is a broad consensus in the Storting about the intentions. In accordance with the Committee's plurality – and perhaps we are going to say a great deal here in this matter – the Government is also busy in overseeing the objective of regional and regional policy to facilitate equivalent living conditions throughout the country and to maintain the main features of the construction pattern, as others have said here. Transport policy is an important means of achieving this. So good infrastructure is also an important industrial policy tool, perhaps one of the most important, if we listen to, among other things. NHO and many business leaders around the country. In accordance with the Government Declaration, we will facilitate a positive development in the whole country and increase the commitment to trade, something we are already doing. Among other things, this means that we prioritise the development of the road network in the districts, and that we can have a good national ferry service. I might refer to other debates on the follow-up rate of NTP; when it comes to the provision of national road ferries, we are, at least, on top of follow-up so far, and the Government will continue to follow-up, because there is an important supply of people along the coast. Rehabilitation of ports and fairways is particularly important in this context. The priorities for this period were laid down in the existing transport plan, National Transport Plan 2006–2015, presented by the Bondevik II Government. I very much agree with the intentions of the proposal that we are now dealing with, and I would like them to be given a higher priority in the existing national transport plan, which lays the basis for the priorities we are making in this four-yearly pillar. Then the process of a new national transport plan is under way, and both county municipalities, metropolitan cities, user and interest groups are involved. In my view, it is with and certainty that local issues and challenges are identified and assessed and put high on the agenda to make the cross-sectoral balances for a coordinated transport policy and to submit a proposal for an NTP for the next period, which is scheduled to be presented in 2008. As I see it, NTP, as has been said by others here, is the most appropriate document to present to the Storting a coordination of the sectoral measures that we are going to pursue, both in terms of trade and industrial policy. The government looks at the national ferry service as part of the road network and wants to reduce the cost to those who use it. We want to make the discount schemes better, we're doing what we know. We will initiate trials on national road ferries, assess them after an evaluation that we are now in the process of, where we look more closely at different models of free ferries in the national and county road network and how we should organise such tests. On the basis of the distribution, the government will assess concrete actions in the 2008 budget. A new piece of work has been started by the government to prepare free ferries. I look forward to a positive dialogue with the broad majority that we are now seeing sign up for in the Stortinget to ensure better transport services, increased value creation and, not least, cutting distance costs for both industry and the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1392	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1396	I have to admit that I was a little excited if the Council of State would call this a demonstration proposal, since it was a reference to NTP, but I'm glad it didn't come. But I'm surprised you're running so slowly. The point is, among other things, which I myself was concerned with, that such a measure has just been used in the revised national budget. The point is also, to link it to the answer letter from the Council of State, dated 23 May, that it is expected that 93 pst. of the ferry sections meet the objective of opening time, and that 73 pst. meet the objective of frequency, and it is those that are not within the framework of which there is reason to be dissatisfied and impatient in the prospect of perhaps waiting for four years, until the new rolling of the national transport plan can bring about improvement. I hope that things will get faster, and I hope that the Council of State can confirm this, that we will look at this issue and not wait for four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1401	A coordinated and full assessment of the needs of that sector will be provided by the National Transport Plan, NTP. However, in the same way as now in the revised national budget, where we have a proposal to improve the supply of Tau-ferya, there will of course be ongoing proposals that need to be reconsidered in individual budget management. It will also take place in the forthcoming management of the budget. But I distinguish between assessing single offers and looking at the gathering of ferries, which I still think needs to be done in the NTP context. The scheduled work to do must be done there. This is precisely why we have a national transport plan. But improvements are always in the minds of this government, and I am of course going to do that in the current budgetary processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1406	No one else has asked for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 19th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2730]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1424	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to five lines after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Odd Einar Dørum, on behalf of the rapporteur, who is Borghild Tenden.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1435	In the case of the four-field motorway from Larvik to the Telemark border, the majority of the committee, i.e. The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left agree that a high standard of road is important to ensure road safety and to reduce the number of people killed and injured in traffic. The Committee has noted that experience suggests that Norwegian road standards take good care of road safety and that normality is consistent with practices in other countries with which it is natural to compare. The majority indicates that the E18 from Larvik to the Telemark border is dimensioned in relation to the expected traffic load and according to existing road standards, and that the expected traffic load on the route is well within the dimensioning criteria of a 20 m road width. The majority have noticed that the proposers are critical of the road growth projections on the route. However, the majority indicate that quarterly traffic forecasts will be available in the autumn of 2006 in the context of work on the national transport plan and that the issue of dimensioning the route will be re-examined. On this basis, the majority would suggest that Storting reject the proposal. The minority in the Committee, the Right Party and the Advance Party, consider that the traffic forecasts available give a false picture of the situation and that they are too low in relation to experience at present. These parties indicate that a number of local authorities have pointed this out, and the representatives will, of course, justify the proposal themselves. I have the register, also on behalf of the case rapporteur, that local public authorities are critical of the traffic forecasts on the route in question. It is therefore essential, in the light of the input from local authorities, that the Council of State does a thorough job with the forecasts and ensures that these are consistent with the reality picture. I feel that there has been an opening for just being able to work that way, and there is also an additional reason why we reject the proposal that has been promoted. If I am going to underline something until the end, it is traffic safety, but I will not conclude with anything that I do not have the right to conclude with. I am well aware of how road safety has been promoted on the road that runs in the northern part of Westfold. The reason why I say that, is that I had the pleasure of promoting the proposal on that road in its time, and it was implemented and completed in record time. It's just to take note that it's had an effect, but I accept all the factual reasons that underlie when you look at the dimensioning, and when you look at the road standards. So I have done so here on behalf of the rapporteur and on behalf of the majority. But I think there is reason to stress that the Council of State has signaled that this will be assessed correctly, as the Committee has written. I do not think it should be added when this matter is presented today. If balances are demanding, it is the duty of a Council of State to make such adjustments. I have the best faith that it will be done. The Council of State is a direct-talk woman, and therefore it is possible to speak directly through the President of the Council of State as well. So on this basis, I'm dealing with the setting that's been promoted, on behalf of the parties that are behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1454	The proposal on the full standard four-field E18 from Larvik to the Telemark border is based on the fact that the Storting should instruct the Government to build a specific road width on a restricted route on E18 in Westfold. Such plans are to be built in a long-term perspective four-field E18 from Oslo to Kristiansand with a road width of 26 metres from Oslo to Larvik and 20 metres further south from Larvik to Kristiansand. According to the State Road Service, the reason for changing the road width here is that there is a significant decrease in the traffic volume at Larvik and that there are changes in the terrain that warrant this. It is not intended to further change the width of the road on the route, although the volume of traffic may vary considerably between some routes. Traffic forecasts prepared by the State Road Administration for the Larvik-Telemark border section show annual traffic of 17 300 20 years after the year of opening. Today it's an annual traffic of 12,800. Current road standards have been defined and regulated by a regulation laid down by the Ministry of Transport under the Road Code Section 13. These define some important minimum requirements for the road network. According to applicable road standards, tribal roads of 10000 to 20000 annual daily traffic shall be constructed as a 20 metre wide four-field road with physical middles between opposite lanes. Such a 20-metre-wide road has two road shoulders, each of 1.5 metres, four lanes, each of 3.5 metres and one middle part of 3 metres. If traffic exceeds 20000 annual daily traffic in the forecast year, road normal means that the road should be built as 26, 29 or 30 metres wide four-field road. The width of the lane is the same with these norms, but the shoulder of the road and the middle part are wider. Proposals have been drawn up for new road standards which have been consulted but have not yet been finalised. The proposal involves minor changes to current road normal and does not affect the realities of this case. The proposal raises questions of realism in the traffic forecasts developed by the State Road Administration, on the basis of which the development plans are based. There has also been a question of the durability of state road traffic forecasts in general in recent years, most recently in connection with the transport committee's journey to Eastfold. In response to the proposal, the Ministry of Transport states that, in the context of the work on NTP, new state-of-the-art traffic forecasts will be drawn up which will be completed in the autumn of 2006. The question of the dimensioning of the E18 west of Larvik may then be raised again when available. The Labour Party believes that there is reason to expect that the State Road Service has taken note of the questions posed to realism in the forecasts. We have also noticed that the Council of State has taken this seriously. If the new road traffic forecasts on the route show a different number from the current one and road standards provide a basis for this, the intention of the proposers could be met. Road safety is also called into question by building a 20 metre wide road instead of a 26 metre wide road. The Ministry of Transport stresses in its response that there is no evidence or experience showing differences in road safety between 20 metres and 26 metres wide. In fact, both road standards can eliminate 50000 or more daily traffic and both road standards offer high road safety gains compared to the current two-field road of 8.5 metres in width. This is mainly due to the mid-point between the directions of driving that prevent meeting accidents, the fact that there is a doubling of the number of lanes and that along the road there is a softer design. A 26 - foot - wide [26 m] road has wider centerline and road shoulders, whereas instead, at 20 meters [20 m] of road width, damage pockets are built at regular intervals that can be used at emergency stops. Experience from other countries such as Sweden and Finland also supports the lack of evidence or experience showing differences in road safety between 20 metres and 26 metres of road width. There is also reason to point to the experience of Eastfold, with the placement of middle parts on a three-way path that the Committee was also able to see when it was there, which has brought considerable road safety benefits. There are many examples of road sections which have been developed with a width of 20 metres, with similar traffic forecasts as for E18, without a similar commitment from the proposers. Nor have they proposed changing the applicable road standards or decision-making system for this. I therefore respond to the commitment of the proposers in this matter. It seems only on this one route in Westfold that they believe that the development of a four-field road with a width of 20 metres would lead to lower road safety. It is only here, in this case, that they propose to deviate from normal decision-making procedures and ask the Storting to instruct the Government to build a wider road. So what is the purpose of the matter when they know they're going down? I can't help but wonder if there's the need for marking that counts more than the result. The Labour Party supports the majority vote to reject the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1488	Unfortunately, this is about to boil down to a matter of traffic figures and not traffic figures. I want to start by referring to a notice in Varden the last Saturday that just goes on this with traffic forecasts that no longer hold a target. It is not new that traffic forecasts do not keep track of targets, but this shows that the traffic forecasts used when dealing with these types of proposals do not match reality. Now, the traffic forecast and the real traffic figures from this distance show that there is a difference between the forecasts of the Road Administration and the real figures, at approx. 35 pst. in the last 10 years. This is a very important matter for everyone who lives by the road and uses it. Unfortunately, there have been many accidents on the route, unfortunately often with serious injuries. It is therefore important that this road is built as a road for the future and not for the past, which is set up by the road authorities, with the standard that is now being used. All local authorities, the municipality, the county council, the Freight Car Association and the police believe that the proposal is irresponsible both in relation to the volume of traffic and the type of traffic that travels on this route. On the current route, the number of trailers is approx. 19 pst., while the normal on a comparable distance is approx. 13 pst. But here you have to make accident pockets from the Vegvesen site so that the cars can stop at a habarikom every time they get an engine stop. And it's always the way the car stops where it's a habarikomum. I think most people know that when the car stops, it virtually stops where it should not stop, and not where the possibilities of putting the car away are good. I would also like to point out that the majority of the committee refers to the dimension of the E18 from Larvik to Telemark border in relation to the expected traffic load and according to existing road standards. In addition, the majority indicate that new quarterly traffic forecasts will be made in the autumn of 2006 in connection with the work of the national transport plan and that the issue of the route concerned will be re-examined afterwards. Now it might be interesting to inform the Storting that too low traffic forecasts are already being used for 2005 and the future. The Westfold police have had a traffic census. At Solum 13,388 vehicles passed in 2005. There are over 580 more than what the Council of State has laid down both in its response to the representatives of Hoksrud and Amundsen and in the traffic forecasts and the figures used in the reply letter to the Committee. In particular, I think that the majority of the committee will not look at the actual conditions of the route. As I said, the traffic forecast on which the route is based is far too low. We've calculated it with a low percentage, while the real numbers are on an average of 4.5 pst. to 5 pst. in the last 10 years. When you know that the actual figures on which you are based and that all forecasts from the new real figures indicate that you get well over 20,000 daily traffic on the route within 20 years of opening, the majority will still reject the proposal. I also want to show you why this width of the road is so important. For approx. a week ago I was supposed to drive to Oslo. When I saw a car standing in a full light on the E18, and had it not been really wide and standard on that road, the car had been standing in the middle of the road, and no one would have been able to get past the accident site. So then I know what it means to have real width and standard on the roads you build. And at least you should make sure to have it on new roads. I also hope that the majority will see the importance of a full standard four-field road with a width of 26 meters. Finally, I would like to point out that the Government and the government parties have repeatedly stated from this pulpit that they want dialogue and cooperation with the opposition and are in favour of good proposals. But in this case, the majority's proposals cannot be understood in any other way than a raw demonstration of power from the red-green parties, because according to the opinions of several government parties, they will later come back to the Stortinget and adopt a full four-field E18 with 26 meters standard. But then comes the proposal from the Government and not from one of the opposition parties, so then it's very good to adopt it. I would like to be allowed to address the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1505	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1508	When the Right supports a 26-metre road width on the E18 from Larvik to the Telemark border, it is primarily because we do not feel sure that the traffic development forecasts are keeping. The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has carefully described the challenges of the project and the figures found by the police, which show that there are a lot more traffic than is stated. So if you write this out for 10 to 20 years, you're going to run badly. So that's 90 million. SEK to save on building 20 meters of width. However, in response to questions from the Committee, the Council of State answers that it is impossible to say what it would cost to widen the road width if traffic were to increase. That's an interesting question. I have commuted between Oslo and Drammen, preferably by train, but often by car, for about 20 years. The E18 was initially a lovely four-field highway with a wide green middle discount from Asker to Oslo. Then the middle discount was removed, and an additional lane was pushed into each direction. Now we see that the largest single project in Oslopackak 3 is a new E18 from Asker to Oslo. Where were the forecasters when that road was sized 10-20 years ago? When I started to commute, it was possible to get there. Today it's completely impossible. We see this development in traffic. We don't like that, but it doesn't make sense to build its policy on a disapprove that traffic is increasing. Then one has to take into account that there is actually a real traffic development. And with an E18 that's going to be a flagship from Oslo to Kristiansand, I think one should think about one more time before one rejects this proposal. So the capacity's blown up on E18 from Asker to Oslo. We have also seen how it was when we worked with the motorway bridge in Drammen. With the incision that came there, it suddenly became queue to the Laertopen – quite far away. And then this propagated downwards in Westfold towards Telemark. I think it's a good delivery gel to listen to acquaintances, even when you're going to assess this. In particular, I think it is interesting that all the staging representatives, I stress all, from Vestfold and Telemark have declared that they support 26 metres of road width. The countyman in Westfold says the same thing. The police in Vestfold, Vestfold County, and all the local organizations and agencies that have spoken out support 26 meters of road width. Then the question is, why is the Council of State and the majority going against it when you've been so clear at the local level that 26 meters of width are needed? The right is in agreement with the Progress Party on the proposal that has been promoted and believes that it is the only sensible thing. I hope that the majority also makes sense, if it's not as the representative Hoksrud has pointed out, that it was a little silly that it was the opposition that took it up. Now we have to wait for them to advance it on their own. Then it'll probably be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1523	It's interesting to study the argument that has been used for road construction over time. At present, it is political to argue that new roads – and in this case wider roads – primarily contribute to increased road safety. It is not now possible to build roads without using the argument on road safety. It must be quite clear that if the number of people injured and killed in traffic each year counts the most, then the Progress Party and the Right should join us in the UK when we argue for the train. It is clear that measures can be put in place to improve road safety. First of all, there are two important measures which then apply: there is a lower speed, and there is a distinction between conversant traffic. Wide and transparent roads allow time only to increase speed. It is clear that there is a link between the volume of traffic and the number of accidents, whatever physical measures are taken. SV is concerned that car traffic should not increase. Environmental policy is a necessary measure to enable us to meet international Kyoto targets without having to resort to drastic action in other areas. In the last ten years, greenhouse gas emissions from road traffic have actually increased by 34 pst, while in a few years they will be of only 1 pst. above 1990 levels. Of course, a reduction in traffic growth is also consistent with the desire to reduce traffic accidents, because each accident is an accident too much. The proposers believe that the real traffic growth over the last ten years has been at 4,5 pst. It's a dramatic figure, and it's much higher than it's possible to accept environmental policy, but it's obviously because we've had a policy that's put up for growth in car traffic rather than in public transport. First of all, there must be a wake-up call that we take action to dampen growth. We saw at the opening of the new E18 in the north Westfold, that new roads are one of the measures that speed up the growth of cars. And that's the biggest threat to rail competitiveness. E18 in the north of Westfold led customers to flee from NSB to car use. The agreement in Westfold to build a new E18 is based on a political compromise which requires rail and road to be built around the same time. So if traffic safety was the most important thing, I would be more concerned that we are now building the double-track Barkåker-Tønsberg, which has been ready for construction for almost ten years, and planning for the Eidanger tunnel and the continuation of the double-track from Sande towards Holmestrand. The progress party is deeply double-moral in the case of E18. They call for a road width that will degrade and increase speed, while they wonder that others are taking the load by getting money to build the way they promote so strongly. For they will not vote in favour of this way as long as it is toll-financed, but they hope that others will make sure to adopt the bomb financing so that the road projects are not postponed. I am aware that politicians locally have called for an increase in road width, and that the SV’s representative from Eastfold, for whom I am seconding, has also joined this. My point is not to address the width of the road, but against the double morale shown in Document No. The 8th proposal. I understand that people have been worried, but I think the Ministry of Transport meets this concern with good arguments if the aim is road safety. I record, like the Workers' Party representative, that the Progress Party has not called for a change in road standards. Then there is a discussion about what is the correct forecast. Further planning for an annual traffic growth of 4,5 pst. is, in the opinion of the SV, an environmental disaster. In my opinion, the case had served best if the proposal from the Progress Party and the Right had not been advanced.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1547	The Christian People's Party believes that a high standard of road safety is important in order to ensure road safety and to reduce the number of fatalities and injuries in traffic. However, the Christian People's Party believes in the experience of Norwegian road standards to ensure that road safety is properly taken into account, and that the norms are in line with practices in other countries it is natural to compare us with. With regard to the specific route, we will not go deep into the procedure and the assessments that have been made, but we have noticed that the E18 from Larvik to the Telemark border is currently dimensioned in relation to an expected traffic load and in relation to the road standards that we follow today. We have also been assured that the expected traffic load on the route is well within the dimensional criteria of a 20 m road width. With regard to the growth of traffic on the route, we will only show that there will be quarterly traffic forecasts in the autumn of 2006 in the context of the work on the national transport plan and that the question of this particular route will be re-examined. The Christian People's Party does not seem to decide to instruct the Government to build a certain width of the road on a limited distance. We should let the decision-making system work the way it should. New forecasts are underway, and if these forecasts indicate a higher standard on this route, the Christian People's Party assumes that this project will be graduated up to 26 metres in width. In this way, I don't see it as the Right Representative said here, that we, who belong to the majority, vote against an extended width of this road. On the contrary. If the forecasts show an increase in traffic growth on this route, more than what is at stake today, we assume that the Stortinget will be informed that we will get an increased road width here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1558	In Document No: 8:80 is a proposal for the Government to implement the necessary measures to ensure that the E18 through Vestfold is secured by a full standard four-field motorway 26 metres in width. I am pleased that the majority in the Committee supports my conclusion on rejecting this proposal. According to current road normals, in the case of main roads with 10,000 to 20,000 running gear per day on average per year – so-called ÅDT – 20 metres wide four-field road with physical mid-sections between the opposite running tracks. The traffic rate to calculate is a forecast 20 years after the expected year of opening. Such a 20-metre road has a cross-section with road shoulders, each of which is 1.5 metres, four lanes, each of which is 3.5 metres wide and one middle section of 3 metres wide. For the Larvik-Telemark line, it is currently ÅDT of 12 800. The current traffic forecast shows 17 300 ÅDT 20 years after the planned opening year, i.e. in 2035. In a long-term perspective, with four-field roads throughout the distance between Oslo and Kristiansand, Statens vägvesen has thought of a road width of 26 metres from Oslo to Larvik. Further south from Larvik to Kristiansand it is thought to be 20 meters due to significant falls in traffic volumes at Larvik and changes in terrain conditions. E18 between Grimstad and Kristiansand is now in the final phase of the supply process and is attached built with a width of 20 metres. To make the best possible use of road users, it is intended to change the standard only once between Oslo and Kristiansand, although traffic levels may vary considerably between sections. I also show that more than 15 sections of road are either under construction or planned with 20 meters of quadruple, and that the proposers have not shown the same commitment in relation to these. The majority in the Committee believe that a high standard of road safety is important in order to minimise road safety and reduce the number of fatalities and road damage. I'm of course written in this. I am also pleased that the majority have also noticed that experience, both national and international, suggests that Norwegian road standards take good care of road safety, and that normals are in line with practices in other countries that are naturally comparable. I would like to point out that there is also no documentation or experience showing a difference in road safety between 20 metres of road and 26 metres of road. Both the 20-metre and 26-metre solution provides high road safety gains in relation to today's two-field road of 8.5 metres road width. This is mainly due to the physical middle part of the running gear that eliminates the meeting slots, doubling the number of runfields, and a softer shaped side area. Intermediate and soft side terrain removes experience 70-80 pst. of the deadlocks on the high-traffic two-field roads. Changes in road standards are proposed as new knowledge is acquired through research and experience in Norway and internationally. The additional road standards are a comprehensive technical code for the design and construction of roads and streets. Road standards are now under review. A proposal has been heard, but the new normals have not yet been fixed. The proposal being put forward is critical to the projections of traffic growth in Westfold. I have said in my reply to Document No. The 8-proposal that there will be new quarterly traffic forecasts in autumn 2006 in connection with the NTP. The question of road dimensionalisation will be raised if new forecasts and new road standards were to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1578	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1581	Governments say that if new traffic figures show a different traffic growth, the new figures should be taken into account. My question to the Council of State will then be: Is it okay – and wants the Council of State – to continue to use 1.5 pst. as the future forecast growth for the next 20 years? Because that's what's essential here, whether you choose to use the real numbers that you have back in time, or if you want to continue to base the prognosis on 1.5 pst. The important thing is that you should actually look at what's been the real thing, and use it as a traffic forecast. Then the number of vehicles on this route will exceed 20000. And if the Council of State so wishes, she can get a copy of the police's number, because I also expect her to believe that the correct number is 13,388 ADT, which the police are now basing on from 2005, in relation to her number, 12,800 ADT.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1586	As I said in my reply, a new traffic forecast is being developed in connection with the work on the national transport plan and the new state-of-the-art traffic forecasts. They will be finished in 2006. In addition, more attention is now to be paid to road type and route forecasts in relation to county averages. As I said, the question of the dimensionalization of the road west of Larvik will perhaps be taken up again when new numbers are preceded. The same applies, of course, if the quarterly traffic forecasts show that the wrong number of forwards has been added. Then one has to assess it according to the new forecasts that will lead to the autumn of 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1593	‘The county is very concerned about the safety of narrowing the shoulder of the road to a width of one and a half metres. Such a narrow road liability would mean that vehicles which stop along the road must partially stand out in the right lane. It is obvious that this represents a significant safety risk;’;» says County Emergency Chief Harald Haug Andersen to the East Coast post on 24 March. Why doesn't the staff listen to the government's extended arm in Westfold?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1601	Governments have a responsibility for road safety and road construction throughout the country. The county councillor and the head of emergency in Westfold have, of course, a legitimate right to promote their views on the roads in Westfold. I have a full list of roads with a width of 20 meters. I can mention E6 Dal–Lillehammer, E6 Svinesund–Svingenskogen, E18 Momarken–Vinterbro, etc., which is either about to be developed or planned to be developed with a width of 20 metres. We have gained experience from Sweden and Finland, which means that 20 metres of road width is good in line with the benefits of road development in our neighbouring country. Time didn't allow me to refer to it. But at least we're not indifferent to our neighboring country. The reason why I have not listened unilaterally to the County Council in Westfold is that I need a common policy for road construction across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1610	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1615	I should have actually learned, but unfortunately I am constantly surprised by the ability of the Progress Party to drive snow party tactics. In general, and long before the Stortinget is invited to deal with the continuation of E18 from Larvik and southwards, we feel that the Progress Party is promoting concrete proposals on the width of the road on the route in question. They know, of course, that the proposal is being rejected. The size, which is well known and which has discussed road standards on several occasions, does not adopt road widths individually or routed. In its conduct, the Progress Party is in fact in the process of destroying for a good cause that has been mutually agreed in Westfold and Telemark. And I'm sure the strand has noticed this cross-political consensus. I therefore see no other reason for this proposal than that it is an attempt to embarrass major colleagues in Vestfold and Telemark. They obviously think it's more important than the case itself. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee is pleased to point out that the state roadway system for the autumn will produce new quarterly traffic forecasts as a basis for the next revision of the national transport plan. Of course, this will also have consequences for the dimensioning of E18 from Larvik and further south. At the moment of the promotion of the development project for the Storting, this is an important part of the decision-making base. Road standards are determined by the Directorate of Roads according to regulations and prior discussions with the Ministry of Transport. Road standards guide all road development here to land. The Progress Party would like to disagree with current normalities and, of course, has full opportunity to propose amendments, but this is not done by individual decisions in the Stortinget. The party of progress loves to take matters out of context. It's actually an important part of the party's policy. This case is just one in a row. I believe that the interest of the Progress Party in the E18 road width also serves a different purpose, namely to cover the fact that the party has never intended to vote for the implementation of this and other projects relating to roads through Westfold and Telemark, as long as they are partly financed by tolls. Tolls are then more important than road safety. Then sacrifice the adventurism and the width of the road. This is the Progress Party in a nutshell.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1634	What is the purpose of the proposal, asked the Workers' Party spokeswoman here earlier. I'll try to explain it. The purpose of the proposal is to ensure that a comprehensive Vestfold – a county council, a county council, rapporteurs and municipalities – is seriously concerned about the situation on their roads and in this case uses the Progress Party and the Right as an agent to promote their concerns. But the two parties are also representatives of someone else. They represent the representatives of the government parties who have said that they too are concerned and that they too want more width of the road. We are also the representative of the representative of Gullvåg, who was just up in the pulpit to promote what he really means, that is. He thinks a little different – one thing when he's here, something else when he's in Westfold. Ninety million. NOK extra costs this. I am very pleased that the proponents of the Progress Party – who know that this is a split layer between the state on the one hand and the users on the other – that is. that there is a higher level of user payment – the case seems to be so important that they go along with their principles of not charging more charges to users. I think there is a great deal of respect for the Progress Party in this matter – it is excellent. Right for its part is not at all happy with increased bomb charges, but for the sake of good cause we are in favour of this. As important as the road width of the southernmost parcel in Vestfold, construction of the Bommestad-Langåker-parcel is about to begin. The plan's ready. Our government got it into the national transport plan. What's missing is a proposition for the Stortninget on start-up. It's not here yet. It has been a year, and I see no reason – at least no one knew – that there should be any delays. I find this exasperation – either in the external offices or in the Ministry of Transport – unacceptable. And I have to say that the Vestfold depositors who are in position have had a great responsibility to push this matter through. Today is June 13. The size disintegrates in three days. We have still not seen the spin of this case. This could delay the development of the worst accident squad in Westfold, perhaps, by up to six months. That is also the concern of the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1647	When the representative Gullvåg was in the pulpit, I became a little laughable – I have to admit that. When you have a bad case, attack is the best defense. He accuses the Advance Party of operating with something he calls ‘closer party tactics’ and says that we are in the process of destroying an important matter. I believe this is due to the fact that the representative of Gullvåg and the proposers for this proposal have a different view of what the Stortinget is going to do, quite simply. We believe that the Stortinget should be an important political player, who should decide on important political issues that local people are also concerned about, while Gullvåg clearly believes that the Stortinget should not mess anything up. The police in Westfold are known to be very sober. Nevertheless, they are quite clear when they say that installing a 1.5-metre road liability – as proposed – will lead to a very high risk for a vehicle train driver moving on the outside of the vehicle. This means that the police, the County Council of Westfold and all the local decision-makers – we have heard the review before – believe that this is a challenge. The Council of State's answer is that we should not solve this challenge here. In a letter to the rapporteur in Larvik – Øyvind Rise Jensen, from the Right – all the Vestfold depositors and all Telemark depositors have signed that they agree that the road width should be 26 metres. Instead, the representative stood at Gullvåg and defended himself because today he has to vote against something he is in favour of. I don't think it's a good way to run politics – and at least not that it would result in the characteristics of engaged co-representatives of the kind that Gullvåg was guilty of. We have a gold mine in this country – it has actually become a little less valuable after certain stock exchanges recently. We lose billions of money while we can't spend any dollars on roads and infrastructure in Norway. So we can risk our money on the stock exchange, but we can't build good enough roads that are traffic-proof, so that the people who travel on them can be safe. I have to say that I was surprised by the representative Aegean posts here instead, where he said he was more concerned with building the railway than with building traffic-proof roads. It's sometimes important to be able to have two thoughts in your head at once. The train is about to go for the E18 west of Larvik. Building roads with yesterday's standard in terms of future challenges is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1662	Local matters of great importance often end up with local unity, and it is at my discretion one of many gems in our democracy. But in the light of the matter we are now invited to deal with, it is that if, in my opinion, this precious stone has not been removed, it has at least changed a significant value – because of the argument in this debate and not least because of the fact that a user agrees locally as arguments in proposals promoted by the Progress Party in this matter. Because this case is a school example of generosity and political immorality, and it is clearly reflected in the range of objectives of party political marking rather than the achievement of objectives of good social solutions. When it is allowed to write in its comments that ‘both local and regional elected representatives, as well as all the Vestfold and Telemark depositors, 7 of whom represent the government parties’, this is a deep and serious violation of honesty and normal peoples, especially when it is presented as one of the arguments for the proposal. The background to the initiative taken by the Progress Party to form a local consensus was that it would be involved in the further debate against the final issue to be investigated. I would therefore have asked myself to be taken to the income of proposals promoted by the Progress Party in this Chamber, especially when the proposal for the degrees undermines the case and the local political consensus, which has, after all, been there. I therefore fully agree with what Steinar Gullvåg said. I also note with satisfaction that the facts and realities of a good investigation continue to form the basis for decisions taken in this Chamber. I am therefore very pleased that the Council of State and a broad majority will re-examine the issue of dimensioning the current route from Larvik to the Telemark border, and that this is done in a tidy manner in the context of work related to the national transport plan and with new forecasts that will be available in the autumn of 2006. This has been — and is — the cause of the local political consensus that has been in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1676	Very short – at the bottom: This is a road map with special challenges. Of course, it's absolutely legitimate to bring them into the Storting. The first letter of reply from the Council of State refers to the new state-owned traffic forecasts. We assume that they also come to the knowledge of the Storting, that the Storting will receive information fairly quickly after the autumn of 2006 when new state-by-state traffic forecasts are made. It is important not only for this road map, but for the whole road map in Norway. There are too many signals that the forecasts we're building on the current road map are actually not correct, and that we're building undersized roads. It is also true that it has not been long since the Transport Committee was on an inspection in Eastfold and looked at another part of the E18, which is being built into the Norwegian housekeeper's spirit, namely in small stages and in pieces and divided, and where it was informed by the Vegvesen that several of the new parcels used are undersized either when they were opened or shortly after they were opened, because the traffic is much larger than the forecasts used. When the Council of State in the answer says that there should be no ‘necessary road extension in 10-20 years’, it is in quite a contrast to the Committee’s experience of the inspection in Eastfold a few weeks ago, just on other parts of the E18, which thus appear to be new and new. The term "double moral" has been used. It's easy to use when you don't have a good feeling for your own position. To the representative of Gullvåg, who accuses the Progress Party of destroying the case, it is to say that the government parties are in the process of destroying the road. The representative of Gullvåg obviously has a long way to go before he approaches a solution to the FrP code.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1690	I would first of all warn against believing that the representative Fleet can at any time act as an agent on my behalf. I believe my vision and Mr. The view of the fleet is so far opposite that we may not be able to agree in this area either. I also noticed that the representative Anundsen said in his post that ‘the police in Westfold are known to be very sober’. Yes, something else would be very eye-catching! I have confirmed that the consequences of the proposals of the Progress Party will be that, at any point in any project in any context, it is possible to derogate from adopted road standards, depending on the merits of the Advance Party. I think this is unusually bold of a party that claims to be taken seriously in its transport policy. What is the basis on which to plan for future traffic if we are not to build on traffic forecasts and traffic figures? And as far as I know, the Progress Party has not at any time proposed, in the context of the treatment of the National Transport Plan, traffic forecasts other than those entered there. What can we expect now, if we are to follow the invasions in which the Progress Party gets – I would have said – any connection? Well, the next thing I guess they're going to be is they're going to be making suggestions to paint yellow midrange on the whole of E6.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1697	If a rattle of the rhetoric and the cheap points towards the Advance Party in the previous post, there won't be much left. The representative of Aasland was up here trying to dissociate himself from his support for the 26-meter road. That's kind of weird. He even claimed that it was the Progress Party who had taken the initiative that the folding benches would get the invitation to make a statement of support. That's wrong. I also explained in my speech where I said that it was the rapporteur in Larvik – who is not from the Progress Party but from the Right – who took this initiative. I thought that the magnificence representatives who were on this kind of bulwark actually meant what they signed on to. But I record that the representative Aasland is of a different opinion. Regarding the representative of Gullvåg, he says that he does not want to deviate from road standards. He even says that the proposal of the Progress Party is for an idea to be reckoned with. But then there is this letter to the rapporteur in Larvik again, which I have to come back to. It is then clear that the representative of Gullvåg wants to deviate from the road standard for the E18 west of Larvik. But it was March 28th. Now it's June 13th – things go in waves.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1706	I think this underlines a little where the Progress Party actually wants with its proposal. There is no reason other than to highlight the need for a very important cultural case for the region and for the whole East-South link. That is what we expressed as local representatives, and as magnification representatives from the states we represent, when we were involved in the uproar. The intention was not to be an alibi for the Progress Party when they were to promote Document No. Eight proposals and reasons for them. The aim was to make a contribution to the matter that was to be investigated and presented to the Stortinget. This is honesty and a precious thing in democracy. It is not the rhetoric the Progress Party is now presenting from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1711	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 20. [[Fotation, see page 2730]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1719	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1 to 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1892	During the debate, Mr Øye presented a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision consents to the Ministry of Defence being authorised to conduct the acquisition phase of Tørrdokk – Haakonsvern according to. the cost framework provided for in points (a) and (b) of paragraph 1 of this 2 i St. pp. [[2005-2006]] No 57 This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e1905	The central party has notified that they support the proposal, while the left has notified that they support the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e2201	During the debate, Per Ove Width put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to develop a new industrial policy strategy for Norwegian participation in international research and development projects in the defence material sector. The strategy must ensure that Norway avails itself of the opportunities for increased participation in such projects.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e2261	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Mr Bård Hoksrud, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party In the course of the debate, proposal No. 2 converted into a transmission proposal and reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government assess Section 37a of the Transport Act in view of greater flexibility for persons who have reached the age of 70 with regard to the holding of driving licences.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e2309	During the debate Arne Sortevik has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide the Storting with an assessment of how island communities and coastal communities that depend on car ferries and speedboats on a one-sided basis can be better able to generate economic value.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e2334	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to implement the necessary measures to ensure that the E18 is secured throughout Westfold by a full standard four-way 26 metres wide.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-13-2.ana.ud2240e2363	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed.
