ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e57	The representative of Ola T. Loan will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e60	On behalf of the representatives of Line Henriette Holten Hemdal, Ingebrigt S. Sørfonn and myself, I would like to propose the construction of a new, modern and functional clinic building for farmed animals at the Norwegian veterinary college, NVH, or alternatively the co-location of NVH with the University of Environmental and Bioscience at Ås.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e65	The representative of Ketil Solvik-Olsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e68	On behalf of the representatives of Tord Lien, Torbjørn Andersen, Kenneth Svendsen, Jan Arild Ellingsen and myself, I would like to make proposals on impact assessment and referendum on the protection of tissues.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e73	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e87	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e96	The proponents of the Progress Party propose that the Government consider proposing the introduction of a subsidy scheme for the establishment of road safety halls in Norway. Let it be said immediately that the current government prioritises effective road safety work very high and continuously assesses the possibility of introducing new and effective road safety measures. When it comes to bringing down the accident figures, it's important to look at a lot of things in context, and nothing has to be out of the question. However, targeting efforts is also important. As regards the relevant road safety hall in Rogaland, the experience with it will be evaluated. We in the Stortinget should await the evaluation report before one now starts something that costs the driver's training for the individual. It is not acceptable for young licence applicants to bear a significant additional cost if the operating costs are not covered by the other activity in the hall. It can then be assessed how such halls can be used, how they can be financed, and also how many such halls may be needed in Norway. These are important issues, which need to be clarified before we can enter into a State grant scheme for the establishment of road safety halls. However, it is worth noting that some measures of the kind referred to by the proposers have been considered interesting by the State Road Service. The road authorities have participated in the establishment of, inter alia: the Rogaland Road Safety Hall. The State has also participated in the establishment of a smooth and smooth runway in Våler in Hedmark. The latter is an important training measure and is in use throughout the year. The conclusion is that once the road safety hall in Rogaland has been evaluated, we will be better equipped to say something about the effects such halls have on road safety. It is important to use the means of road safety for effective action. That's how we get the most traffic safety for the money spent, and that should be interesting in every batch in this room. Furthermore, the conclusion is that this Document No. The 8th proposal should be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e117	I think it is positive that the Council of State is in favour of Document No. The 8th proposal. Even if you do not choose to introduce a new system now, you are at least positive about taking a look at this. You can also see the very positive effects of the hall that is in Rogaland. I also think it is important to evaluate the road safety hall that is already running. But I know that there are many other places in the country where this can be very interesting, how many think that such a way of organising road safety work is exciting and innovative. It's important to get this into an environment where you have a totality and a whole. You can choose to focus on different groups of people. Both children who are in kindergarten or in school, and the business community is now very interested in that kind of hall. For them, this is love. They want this to come. I want to say a little bit about the road safety hall in Rogaland, so people will get a glimpse of what this is all about. It's like having different types of activities around the hall. It could be to see the effect of having a case of noise standing in the car, see what speed and what weight it gets when it spreads into the car in the event of a possible collision, etc. You also have a roll-over carpet, so you can sit in a car and experience rolling in traffic. You have a room, or a booth, a memory space, where you get time to think about, where you have a car where someone has lost their lives in traffic. The feedback I have received from the road safety hall and those who run it in Rogaland shows that it makes a strong impression both on young people and on older people who get there. It gives room for reflection, which we think is important. It also makes this hall very special and very positive in road safety work. As I said, the hall is very popular. Kindergartens use it actively. They don't pay anything to be in the hall. The kindergartens in the area use the hall very actively in their road safety work to teach children how to behave and move in traffic. The same is true of school. Of course, it's business that's the big contributor to this hall. They use it in the work of their employees, to try to ensure that you do not lose employees who are at work, in the traffic or in the leisure, of course. That's why we think this is an exciting offer, especially when there are other states that want this. Not least organisations are active on this front and want to establish this type of action. I fully agree with the Council of State that it is important to look at the economic aspect around this. We believe that what the State should contribute to is a short-term grant, i.e. a one-off grant and not a permanent operating cost. That's what you think you can do. It is not that there will be increased costs for those taking driving training. You've managed to avoid that in Rogaland. It's the ATL, the traffic schools in Rogaland, which are joint owners, who actively use it in their training without costing the students any more. I think it is important to bear in mind that this should not cost those who take driving training, anything more. This is getting things into a context. You get an environment where you get the sense of realism in a completely different way than you get when you drive around and you just have parts of it with you. If you put it up in a school or kindergarten, you don't get the same effect you get by having a hall, where you have the whole environment and can have both the overall perspective and perspective of the individual parts. We support the proposal for a decision. We think it is positive that the Council of State in its letter is positive, and that the Directorate of Road is positive to these types of halls, but that one also wants to have the system evaluated. So maybe we were a little early out. At least I think these are exciting measures. I hope the Council of State will continue to work on this, and that she will ensure that, in cooperation with organisations and counties, traffic safety halls will be established in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e134	The main objective of the Christian People's Party with transport policy is to develop a safe, environmentally friendly and efficient transport system. The Christian People's Party's vision is that no one should be killed or seriously injured in traffic. We therefore give priority to measures that increase road safety. Traffic safety must always be of the highest priority. It is important that we have a wide and targeted training provision, so that the emerging generations — and we who may need some refresher training and refresher — understand the importance of safety work in traffic. An example for follow-up, said our previous transport minister, Torild Skogsholm, when she opened the road safety hall at Forus outside Stavanger in the summer of 2004. Today, the hall is largely used by the driving schools in Rogaland. In addition, significant interest is reported from enterprises that want their employees to have the health, environmental and safety experience that a course in the road safety hall can offer drivers of both small and large vehicles. There seems to be little doubt that the road safety hall in Rogaland has been a great success and an inspiration for many. We have recorded that Rogaland's research is to evaluate the experience with the hall and that the report from there is to be available in the autumn. Hopefully that report will provide a good basis for assessing whether more halls should be built, how many halls may be needed and how they should be financed. In this context, it is important to clarify that the economic impact that the establishment of road safety halls could have on possible increased costs of driving training should be taken into account. The Christian People's Party agrees that the operation of the road safety halls should not be an additional cost for driving school students. In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State also warns that the Road Directorate should assess the need to establish a general subsidy scheme for local road safety measures. It is positive if we can put in place a system that facilitates the full exploitation of all good ideas and initiatives in road safety that appear around the country. Finally, we note, at least, that the Stortinget can today unite in a broad political consensus that work to increase road safety will continue to be a high priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e153	In the national transport plan, road safety is one of the five main points of transport policy. I believe that all measures that can lead to increased safety and to fewer damage and killings in traffic need serious consideration and great attention. The Rogaland Road Safety Hall, which opened in 2004, is thus very interesting. I have to say that I was impressed when I went into the Internet and saw what kind of offer is given here. One of the measures of the course is that the students themselves should know how an accident feels. I think it is important that arriving drivers notice how frightening a car accident can be, and strong tools to develop that feeling are often necessary – unfortunately, one can say – if not for everyone, too many! The government is busy with a continuous assessment of the feasibility of implementing new and effective road safety measures. The Central Party will provide support to the Council of State, which, by letter of 29 March 2006, claims that the Ministry will await the evaluation report of Rogaland’s research into the Rogaland Road Safety Hall before taking a position on whether to build several such halls around the country. It is also positive that the Minister of Transport, in the same letter, states that the Department will ask the Directorate of Road to assess current practices for the addition of local road safety measures and the need to establish a more general and uniform system of supplements for local road safety measures. I expect that the Council of State will inform the Council of the evaluation report of Rogaland research when it is in its possession.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e166	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2565]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e182	There is an overall committee that wants to facilitate the possibility of wheelchairs for outdoor use only at a maximum speed of up to 10 km/h in line with normal battery-powered wheelchairs. Document No The 8 proposal is supported by five representatives of the Progress Party who consider it unreasonable that the petrol-powered wheelchair Terregen is not approved as an aid for disabled people. Today it's the only wheelchair that makes it possible for a group of disabled people to drive long distances in cold weather and in difficult and foreign terrain. The Committee underlines the importance of the objective of full participation and equality for disabled people. In this context, it is essential that this group has access to tools to help compensate for the individual’s reduced functioning. For most disabled people, an electric wheelchair will be a good tool when moving outdoors, but for a minority this is not good enough. For them, Terregen will be the only alternative. Today, according to the vehicle regulations, the terrain is technically classified as a quadricycle due to excessive external dimensions and that petrol is used as an energy source. According to popular opinion, such a wheelchair could benefit under the regulations for granting car support. For users, this is problematic, because they have to choose between this type of wheelchair and the car, because the public's safety does not provide support for two such vehicles. In a letter from the Ministry of Transport dated 10 May, the Council of State of Navarsete has raised several issues. One sees it, among others. as it is difficult to introduce a separate definition for wheelchairs for outdoor use, as one can easily come into conflict with other occupants of the pavement. Today's definition prevents a user from using areas set aside for walking. Despite a number of counter-conceptions and despite the involvement of several departments, the letter concludes very positively. They are set to find an acceptable solution. A new letter dated 30 May of this year reiterates this willingness to find a solution independent of the vehicle technical classification. The solution shall come at the latest during the examination of the 2007 budget. In this context, the Committee recommends that document No. The 8th proposal shall be annexed to the minutes. An overall committee also stresses that the organisations of the disabled must be contacted and consulted before reaching a final conclusion. I feel sure that will happen. We all want to make everyday life easier for those who need these tools.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e208	An agricultural mechanic experienced 15 years ago that his father was seriously ill, and in this regard he developed a vehicle that is today known as Terregen. After this it has been sold approx. 200 such vehicles. The terrain can be specially adapted to the individual user, both in the case of gas, brake and/or steering. For more than ten years, this one went like a wheelchair, a wheelchair with greater prosperity in foreign terrain, on wintering and over longer distances. Due to its robust design, it provides a good opportunity for the disabled person to travel outdoors in open air. For some time, the Road Directorate reclassified the ground from wheelchair to motor vehicle. This had both economic and practical consequences for former and new users. The Norwegian Handicap Association raised the issue with the Labour and Social Fraction of the Progress Party, and on the basis of this, the proposal was put in place. The problem with the land being reclassified to a motorcycle is that the user must have a driving licence for a motorcycle, the charges shoot in the weather and last, but not least the terrain falls under the same regulations as a social security funded car, which makes it difficult to obtain both parts, despite the fact that the land and the car meet two different needs. The terrain meets the use of a wheelchair as a replacement for reduced or lost walk function and, of course, cannot replace the uses covered by a car. In working on this matter, I have met with a broad political will to find a solution that users can live with, and I want to praise all the parties, the departments concerned and the state councils for that. The Minister of Transport suggested in his first letter of 10 May 2006 that the simplest solution was likely to reduce speed from 9.8 km/h to 6 km/h. This would result in a reclassification from motorcycle to motorcycle. Then Terregen would no longer be required to register, and more charges would be avoided. This solution is not considered appropriate by the users, since the main score of the terrain is largely lost and the value of use will be significantly reduced if the speed is reduced. Since full participation and equality have been an explicit objective of disability policy since the mid-1980s, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs once again, on 30 May 2006, received letters from the Minister of Transport, indicating that there have been talks between the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion with a desire to find a solution. I welcome and stress a concrete proposal for the implementation of a system for the Storting, at the latest, in relation to the 2007 budget, as announced by the Council of State in the above letter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e225	I just need to add two things to the matter. One is to stress what the latter also said, that this is about equality for people with disabilities. We need to take that into account when we look at all the rules that in practice can seem quite square – if I have to be allowed to say so disrespectfully. The second thing I want to put a little light on is part of the argument that has been led in relation to the fact that it would be so dangerous to have this terrain ‘going’ among other road users, because it goes as fast as 10 km/h. I am a quite clever cyclist, but a cyclist who comes on a pavement – and the cyclist is allowed to – can get significantly faster than 10 km/h without a single sound. I think we should be a little careful to argue that way, because it seems a little sought after that a motorised wheelchair that actually fights a part and runs for 10 km/h would be so terrible for other traffic routes. I would also like to join in the praise that has been given here both to the proposers, to the case rapporteur and to the department. Now we have to try to find a solution. There are probably also a lot of other rules that we have to look at in the future, if we're going to achieve the goal of making people with disabilities equal to us when it comes to being able to use the outdoors of society as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e238	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2565]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e254	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e259	Robert Eriksson, Kenneth Svendsen, Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Siv Jensen and Harald T. Nesvik are promoting proposals for changes in the law on popular property that reward those who want to work after age 67. In the vote, the representatives of the Advance Party are supported by the Right in a proposal for a decision asking the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget for such changes. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Party of Advances and the Right, considers that measures to facilitate the combination of work and social security must relate to age pensioners in general and will therefore await an overall review of the pension notification promoted in the autumn of 2006. The government has announced that it will make it easier to combine work and social security and will facilitate a senior policy that helps older people to see as a positive resource for their working life. So this has broad support in Stortinget. Today's case is more about how we proceed. Older pensioners between 67 and 70 years of age can earn up to two times the basic amount, or 121,000 kroner before the year’s social security regulation, which the Stortinget will deal with next week. This is close to ten times more than the AFP pensioners, who can only make $15,000 without any curtailment. The main reasons for the differences relate to the tax advantages of an AFP pensioner and by maintaining rights in the social security equivalent to those of their pension contributions up to 67 years. Proposalers want a system in which the age pensions of the population are made more flexible in relation to the age limit and the size of the pension, so that those who want it can, for example, retire after 60 years with a lower pension adjusted to the benefit base. At this stage, however, the proposers are limited to those between 67 and 70 years of age. In the 2005 Stortinget pension settlement, the Stortinget Government asks to come back to what a future early retirement scheme in the population’s security will look like. A broad majority in the Grand Duchy says that the basis should be: working for those over 62 years of age should be better able to combine pensions and work to remove the 70-year ceiling In its letter to the Labour and Social Committee, the Council of State indicates that the Government is now working on a big message where these challenges will be central. On the basis of this, I fully share the opinion of the Council of State that no proposals should be made for changes in today's population's population until the Stortinget receives an overall treatment that can apply to all pensioners. The proposers refer to the point of the Soria Moria Declaration that the Government will provide for a senior policy that helps older people to see as a positive resource for working life. It's important. They share this objective and see their proposal as a measure to achieve it. They may be right about that, but the government is in the process of working on a growth report on pensions, where an important element will be that it will pay off on a longer-term basis. The cancellation message is the announcement to be right around the corner. I'm sure we'll be well served to discuss this important matter in the light of the Storting's order and the entire government review of our pension system. It will be to comply with the order that Stortinget has previously given. A broad majority of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs therefore proposes that the proposal by the representatives of Eriksson, Svendsen, Kjønaas Kjos, Jensen and Nesvik be annexed to the Minutes. No one wants to reject the proposal as an element of the transformation of the pension system we want to achieve, but it should be dealt with in its proper context.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e290	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a thorough and thorough presentation of the content of the matter and of where the parties separate layers. In principle, there is broad political agreement on the main principle of paying for older workers to work. In many ways, there are also the basic plan of the pension agreement that the Stortinge has previously entered into. The design of the pension system is very important, not least because the pension system is such an important element that it affects the whole economy in many areas. If the pension scheme has the wrong arrangements, it will be difficult, not to say impossible, to achieve other important objectives for society and the social economy. Everyone initially agrees that it is important to stimulate the widest possible use of older people in order to ensure a sustainable pension system. In that case, we must actually stimulate the choice of instruments and arrangements of the pension system and reward those who have the opportunity to do so and choose that solution. I think that the intention behind the pension agreement at this point should be possible to achieve and succeed, there must be strong instruments to promote those who actually choose to work beyond what is normal retirement age. If we don't, we'll eventually experience that the general retirement age is 62 years. This will mean in the next round that we do not have a sustainable pension scheme. All of this is related. We have supported the proposal of the Progress Party because it is in line with what we think, and then we think it is good to express it. I also believe that when the matter comes to consideration for the autumn, we will experience that there is a very broad political consensus on these main principles. At least we are very concerned about clarifying – as we also do in the setting – that when the new pension scheme is to be implemented from 2009, these principles must apply to all pensioners, not only those covered by the new pension reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e301	Christian People's Party supports the intention of Document No. The 8th motion by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and It is important to stimulate and reward those who want — and who are healthy enough for it — to work after they reach the age of 67. The proposers are right in describing that society needs more hands to carry out all the tasks that we will face in the future. Older people are a resource on which the labour market can become completely dependent. That is also why it is important that they be treated with the respect they deserve. Many older people feel that they are not employed because the company wants a young and expansive environment. Others are overlooked and directly discriminated against in the recruitment process. The argument used to choose younger candidates is that you want stability and that employees can stand longer in the job. This argument doesn't describe reality. Studies carried out by KS show that younger workers are the most frequently changing jobs. Older people are a very stable workforce. In addition, the company can benefit from their long experience, competence, insight and contact networks. It is disappointing that a recent study by the MMI demonstrates that half of employers in this country will not consider employing a jobseeker who has less than 10 years left of his professional career, despite the fact that 50-year-olds are a much more stable workforce than, for example, those in employment. A 30-year-old. This is a lot about the attitudes you have towards older workers. Here we can all share in giving positive signals. The scarcity of workers will gradually show enterprises that their future success depends on their ability to keep seniors at work. Then we need a senior policy that makes this possible. Flexibility, the ability to step down gradually and to be given interesting tasks are important in this context. The Christian People's Party took note when we dealt with the pension message, where it is said that working even after one has reached the age of 67. We stand by this. We also believe that the AFP scheme provides weak incentives to work after 62 years. However, if we do not support the proposals of the Progress Party today, it is because we are in the process of reforming pensions. There are strong indications that longer working hours will pay off in retirement. We will await this communication and proposals for instruments to make it easier and more profitable for pensioners to contribute their labour force. Finally, I will refer to a verdict in Stavanger District Court from 12 May this year. At a time when many retire early and use the AFP scheme, it is interesting to read about a Statoil employee who wants to stay longer in working life than the company's retirement age of 67 years. Although that judgment is not yet enforceable, it is worth noting that the Court now refers to the obligation of businesses to assess the maintenance of specific age limits in the light of the new rules on the prohibition of age discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e318	The background to the promotion of this proposal by the Progress Party was that we want an active senior policy. We believe that the proposal included in this document No. The 8 proposal is one of many proposals to promote an active senior policy. In this connection, I would like to go back to what was in Bergen's Official Journal a short time ago, where the operational manager of Ross Offshore, Cecilie Seal, describes the situation in which the oil industry is currently operating. They lack engineers. A great many of the first generation of engineers who helped build up the Norwegian oil industry are now on the stairs to be retired. We haven't been able to replace the skills these people possess. The industry has also mentioned in the same article that if you are unable to replace that competence, you will almost go into a dry area of competence. That is why we believe it is important to also exploit the labour force of those over 67 years of age, in order to help and maintain skills. We also see that there are more people in the business community who support such a scheme and who support such a proposal as the Progress Party here promotes. It'll be a little weird when we look at how today's legislation is. If you're 70 years old, you can make as much money as you want, and you can participate as much as you want in the world of work, without being cut short in your pension. But if you're 67, 68, or 69, you get an abbreviation. I think with respect to report that as today's legislation is, there are a lot of people who stop working when they're 67, and then start again when they're 70. There are three very valuable years, which could have been used in a good way for those who want it, for those who are interested, and for those who feel that they still have residual working capacity and want to contribute actively in the workplace. I record the attitude of the government parties in the vote, namely that you are positive, that you have to have arrangements, and that you want to see this in conjunction with the forthcoming retirement message that will be presented by the Government and that it is working on. But I still think it's important to get action in place now and not in three years' time. It's important to get a system in place relatively quickly, so you don't have to go into a situation that results in a lot of skills disappearing on the road while we wait for a new system to be designed. Therefore, adopting our proposal would have been the best guarantee to avoid it. Finally, on behalf of the Right and the Advance Party, I would like to raise the proposal contained in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e335	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e338	I just want to take the opportunity to confirm what has been said by several people, that the government is now working intensively with the big message on the follow-up to the pension reform that we are going to present in the autumn, and I just want to make it very clear to the Stortinget what two main themes will be in that message. The first will be about a model of retirement in social security. As the Stortinget is well known, the May 2005 pension agreement in the hall was the starting point for drawing several different, possible models, and then making some demands on what a future model of earnings should at least contain. And then the government has been given the task not to determine different, possible models, but to propose a model of earnings in the future pension system. There will be a major theme in the big news that we will be coming with in the autumn. And so it's very important to be aware that, in addition to choosing a model for future earnings in the population, we're also going to introduce a whole new element in the age pension of the population, namely that we're going to design a flexible retirement pension for everyone from 62 years of age. It's a whole new element in the age pension of the people's fear. As the system is today, we have no flexibility in popular security. Social security has one year, 67 years. Any kind of early retirement has nothing to do with popularism. So it's essentially done through AFP and, in part, occupational pensions. We are now working intensively to design what the flexible retirement pension from 62 years of age will look like. It will, of course, also affect the target population of Document No. The 8-proposal we are discussing today. That is why I am very pleased that the Storting is doing what they are doing today, namely attaching this proposal to the Minutes. It would have been very demanding for us if we had now, while making the flexible age pension in the population's welfare for everyone from 62 years of age, also had to design a separate system that will apply to a certain period, which, as the proposal says, will reward – whatever it should be – 'those who want to contribute their labour force after the age of 67'. So we had to work in parallel with two different problems in the situation we're in right now. That's why I'm glad the Storting gives us the opportunity to do this properly and completely, not piecefully and divided. I feel very confident that when we come up with proposals to introduce this flexibility into the public interest, it will take care of the intentions of the proposal, which I, of course, also agree with.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e349	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2565]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e365	In this position, the Committee notes the importance of Norway's participation in Schengen and the cooperation on the Schengen Information System as an important element in the fight against cross-border crime. The new EU Directive incorporated into the EEA Agreement on vehicle registration documents and the Directive's prerequisite for the active exchange of information between Member States in order to facilitate control and to combat fraud and trafficking in stolen vehicles is thus an important step towards combating this type of crime. The Committee has noted that the exchange of information is part of the verification of the re-registration of a vehicle. Information provided by the SIS could reveal whether the vehicle has been reported stolen or otherwise disappeared. The Committee has noted that the current verification for the issue of registration certificates for motor vehicles is not considered sufficient. The Committee would therefore stress the importance of an effective and rapid exchange of information to ensure that there are no criminal offences for vehicles to be re-registered in the country in which the vehicle is registered or before re-registration in another Member State. The Committee supports the Ministry of Justice's recommendation that the Schengen authorities responsible for vehicle registration, in Norway's road transport stations, be given direct access to relevant information in the SIS. However, the Committee has noted that only State services shall be entitled to direct access to the SIS and that other persons carrying out such tasks, if any, and requesting information from the SIS, must request such information through police or customs authorities, which have such access. Furthermore, the Committee has noted that if, following searches in SIS, registration authorities identify possible criminal offences, yes, they shall be treated in line with national legislation in the country concerned. In conclusion, the Committee has laid the foundations of the Ministry's assumption that the costs associated with the establishment of SIS search access are covered within the respective budgetary frameworks. The matter has normally been referred to the Foreign Affairs Committee, which had no comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e378	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2565]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e394	The purpose of the Convention against Corruption is to promote international cooperation to prevent and combat corruption. The UN Convention against Corruption is the first global instrument aimed at corruption. The Convention represents an important strengthening of the fight against international economic crime and is in addition to the UN Convention against Transboundary Organised Crime, which Norway has previously ratified. A unanimous committee would stress the importance of building global instruments that promote international cooperation to prevent and combat corruption. Economic gain is one of the main drivers of all organised criminal activities, and it is crucial, in the Committee's view, to use the money to finance and run the business. The Committee agrees that corruption in some countries poses a threat to the rule of law, democracy, human rights and social justice and that it hinders economic development. The Committee considers that ratification of the UN Convention is an important element of the important fight against corruption both nationally and internationally and demonstrates that Norway will continue to be a driving force in this work. On this basis, the Committee recommends that Norway ratify the United Nations Convention against Corruption.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e409	Very few of the reports handled by the police are about financial crime. It is estimated by the Police Association that Norway has a black economy of over 40 billion kroner. The avoidance of such amounts weakens the foundations of the welfare society. Economic crime undermines the community for large amounts of tax, bankruptcy, money laundering, corruption or insider dealing. It is important that we focus on criminals with significant financial and human resources instead of focusing on chasing the drug addicts up and down Karl Johan's street in Oslo. We need a turn of police focus from prowls to whitesnips. Moreover, much of economic crime is a prerequisite for other types of national and international crime, such as trafficking in human beings, drug crime, prostitution and terrorism. The government wants to deliver results and the fight against financial crime has been given increased priority in the government’s additional budget. The crew in Økokrim will be strengthened this year with a total of 11 annual works and 6.2 million. kr. Together with the development of a new ecosystem of Ecokrim and the proposal to increase the tax rate by 10 million. Intensification of efforts to combat tax evasion will significantly strengthen the fight against economic crime. This is a matter of political priority, and of providing local police districts and ecocrime with the resources they need to take steps to do the job to detect competition crime, crimes related to pyramidal activities and money laundering. When money laundering messages are not investigated, the confidence that such cases are prosecuted by bankers and financial agents who take social responsibility and report them is weakened. The government, with increased efforts at Ecocrime and police districts, has better enabled them to deal with more issues, and adapted and timely tools for their work are put at their disposal. This is precisely why the United Nations Convention on Cooperation in Combating Corruption is so important globally, for this is a problem that goes beyond that of individual countries. The ratification of the Convention by the Grand Duchy is an important strengthening of the fight against international economic crime and attacks the lifeblood of international criminal networks. Economic crime reduces annual income from the welfare state. The Labour Party wants to strengthen administrative cooperation to expose the black economy, and we want to strengthen the competence of local police authorities. Ecocrime needs to be strengthened in order to detect and prosecute actors with financial resources to conceal their crime. Fighting crime pays off. It pays off financially. It pays off socially. Good criminal policy is good welfare policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e437	The Government is pleased that the Storting agrees to the ratification of the UN Convention against Corruption. The UN Convention against Corruption represents an innovation such as the first global instrument aimed at corruption. It is on many points more extensive and goes beyond the already existing regional conventions in this area. The UN Convention represents a universal standard for anti-corruption work. The purpose of the Convention against Corruption is to strengthen the laws of the States and to promote international cooperation to prevent and combat corruption. Norway took an active part in all seven negotiating sessions and signed the Convention as soon as it was opened for signature in Mexico on 9 December 2003. The Convention entered into force on 14 December 2005 following ratification by 30 countries. It is important that Norway ratify the Convention now, in order to ensure our credibility in the fight against corruption. Ratification guarantees Norway rights as a Contracting Party to the First Conference of the Parties to the Convention, which takes place in December 2006. As a Party to the Convention, we will have greater opportunity to influence the further fight against corruption by the international community. Moreover, corruption, which has already been the subject of several speakers, is a major problem both nationally and not least globally. Corruption is harmful for all countries, but its adverse effects are particularly high in the poorest countries with the most vulnerable population. The Convention provides for technical assistance to developing countries to enable them to implement the Convention. The rules on the return of the proceeds of corruption actions will help to enable the poorest countries, too, to recover dividends that have left the country. The importance and effectiveness of the UN Convention will depend on both industrialised and developing countries ratifying and implementing the Convention. Norwegian ratification will help to create a better balance between developing countries and industrialised countries. The legislative changes necessary to ratify the Convention will be dealt with at Odelstinget later today. We will then have the opportunity to come back to the very specific legal frameworks in relation to the situation in Norway. I would also like to point out that it is important that we have both adopted legal instruments and have ratified the Convention, but in this work, which was also carried out by the representative, Mr Lydvo, there is also a great deal of work ahead of the police authorities and the Ecocrim and others, precisely in order to contribute to the force of these laws. If these legal barriers and such ratification become a cushion of rest, both internationally and nationally, then there is every reason to be concerned. This requires increased effort, as the government also adds up, which we also showed in our supplementary proposition before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e456	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2565]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e472	Every four years, the Ombudsman’s Civil Protection Officer shall send a report to the Stortinget, and that is the matter we are dealing with today. The civil protection obligation includes guardians who, for reasons of conscience, cannot serve military protection. Civil protection obligations shall support defence, but the service shall also be meaningful and socially beneficial. Like the defence protection obligation, the civil protection obligation has also been the subject of restructuring in recent years. They have been given new calling procedures, there has been an increase in rates, and there has been a decrease in duty time. The service period has been reduced from 14 to 13 months and is now also reduced to 12 months. It's not going to get away from the fact that the physical form of the civil workers, like some part of the defense, is also descending. We also have a reduction in the number of people who are applying for civil work, and those who are meeting may also become known incompetent because they are unable to do the work. But it is important that those who serve the civil duty of protection today thrive. It is important to have a good offer for those who serve that service. The Committee will highlight the WOCT, the violence and conflict prevention service, which is a priority service, and we have a lot of good sponsors around that we have to attend to. That is how the Committee puts forward its position, and we are in favour of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e487	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 2566]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e495	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1 to 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-06-07.ana.ud1744e533	During the debate, Robert Eriksson put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the law on popular security that reward those who wish to contribute to their labour force after the age of 67.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
