ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e49	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows between the groups: Work Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e60	After the second budget presented by the new red-green government, it is very clear that Norwegian policy has been reversed. The government has invested five billion dollars in tax bills and prevented seven new ones from having many billions at their disposal to improve well-being and community. We can look at this in a lot of ways. For example, in economics, kindergartens, the environment, assistance and transport, there are large differences compared to the budgets of the Bondevik government. However, the changes have obviously not only led to changes in the state budget, which are very important. It may also appear that it has influenced the opposition to become more concerned with combating poverty and unemployment than they have been before. That's good, I think – if it's real. But in order to do that, the opposition has run from the entire tax law policy that they had before, because of course it would be difficult to get so many good things if they had 12 billion dollars less at their disposal. Then the consequences had become great, the cuts in many important welfare areas had to have become massive, and the differences had increased dramatically. In addition, when the opposition operates with pure estimates and large cuts that they do not want to show the consequences, I have to say that I am neither impressed nor convinced of the reversion. In the last period, former Minister of Finance Foss referred to this as ‘harry money’, and the use of harry money, I think you should trust something like writing in sand. One of the main challenges ahead is to ensure that more people get work, that they are not injured and sick at work, that they are not parked on the sidelines because they have international background, disability or health problems, are no longer under 35 years old, are interested in regular full-time jobs – and need it. In parallel with the budget, the Government has therefore provided a key message on work, welfare and inclusion, and two action plans, one against poverty and one on inclusion. In addition, it has warned that it should promote a law against discrimination against people with disabilities and a timetable for accessibility. In addition, new measures against social dumping and dangerous working conditions are also being pursued. All of this is very important. The ongoing NAV reform is a major reform. However, it is not possible to undermine the fact that this year there have been some problems in implementing the level of intervention. It is very serious, especially for people with disabilities, because they do not have the same pleasure of doing good business as others. Some of the core elements of the NAV reform – with the changes in the legislation announced in the big news – are precisely the need to have an action apparatus ready for early help and for tailor-made help. We agree with the Council when he says that he looks seriously at this, and that you have to make the department work better than it has done in the last six months. We know that it is demanding with large conversions, but still it is not a situation we can be satisfied with. I would also like to emphasise the redeployability authority of the Government in order to be able to redeploy measures to the ordinary unemployed and measures to the disabled. There is also reason to stress that permanent work is a very important measure that many people need in order to have a job. It is also important to focus on cooperation with non-governmental organisations in order to achieve the objectives in this area. And it is important that the entire NAV budget has competence, especially for different types of learning difficulties and for those who have problems in their working life. If you don't want part of the action we do, don't help, because then people don't get the skills they need to get a job, and to keep a job. All of these major issues have been raised by the Government, in line with SV's policy. But I would like to point out something to the debate that we are going to get more people to work and less to social security. Sometimes it sounds like it's a big problem that people who are disabled get dissatisfaction, that they get sick when they are sick, that they get social assistance when they don't have income, and that it's the good welfare arrangements that make people not getting a job. In SV, we are tough defenders of the welfare system and the Nordic welfare model. It has taken care of people who have been in a difficult situation. It has also been very successful in economic terms. It's nothing to be ashamed of. On the contrary, it is a nobility mark for a society to have such good arrangements. What might be reason to worry about, is that those who want to and can get to work don't get enough help to do that. It is one of the main areas of activity that this government and the majority place emphasis on. For this reason, it is also important that the public sector as an employer has policies that are more conscious of the future of recruiting people with both an international background and disabilities. There is no one who gets a job or good health from being poor or remaining poor. The government has presented an action plan on poverty. It's twice the size of the Bondevik government. We have come most far in terms of measures to prevent unemployment. We have there helped both by the great effort that the Government has made, and by good times. It becomes very important that the measures we take in relation to groups who are poor, or are at risk of becoming poor, are of such quality that they ensure that people get and keep a job even when the economic cycle is worse than today. So the government has for the first time raised the rates of social assistance. It is a very important promise. It's a breakthrough, I would say, for a new policy in that area. It becomes very important that we now follow up, so that this money actually gets where they're going, that's to those who need social assistance. It's also important that we follow along, so that the curtailment does not affect the scholarship that students receive in high school, which is also a new investment from this government. The government has also removed 220 million. kr in tax on bad advice, by removing the coercion fee. To be honest, I'm quite surprised that there's someone who doesn't support that change in the Storting, but so they're going to have government revenues on people getting into economic difficulties. I have to say that I fully support the Government in the review of fees and charges in this area, where the principle must be that you should not make money on it, and not at all make money because someone has a problem. But I think I'm going to be honest and say that there's a long way left when it comes to combating poverty. It's taken very important steps, the government is in the right direction, but there are still many who are struggling. This is a big task for SV, and it's a big responsibility for the entire government and all the government parties. I also hope that the parties that are now in opposition signal that they are more concerned about this than they were – according to what they managed to achieve – in position, will also be supporting this work in the future. Then there has to be something other than tightening up with one hand and clinging to measures for the unemployed or removing some poverty measures, and handing out a little with other hands. It's not good distribution policy. Finally, the Committee has made one change. This applies to the Interpret at work scheme. The Committee did not support the conversion proposed by the Government there. The hearings showed that there was a great deal of uncertainty among users when it came to that scheme. That's why the majority, a very broad majority, has said that we don't want to implement that system now, but we've challenged the Government to see if the new scheme they proposed can be tried out anywhere in the country. It is incredibly important that we have arrangements that work well for people with disabilities so that they can be in the workplace. Therefore, it is extremely important that these schemes make those who have a good offer today, but of course also offer those who do not have a good offer today. Therefore, we believe that the Government must continue to work on the scheme and also on several schemes that will allow disabled people to have and maintain a job.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e90	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e93	Karin Andersen said in his speech that the government has increased the rates of social assistance. So they haven't. They have recommended the municipalities to increase them. Karin Andersen tells the NRK on 2 August that it is time to clean up. ‘Leiar of the Labour and Social Committee at Stortinget, Karin Andersen of SV, thinks it’s time to clean up the crackdown on social aid.’ The Internet newspaper of 13 July says that Karin Andersen will increase the minimum rate of social assistance, and she says: ‘No one can live for SEK 4,270 per month. I know, because I've tried." Then my questions are: can Karin Andersen live on 10 dollars and 50 cents more per person. day, as recommended by the Government? And is it that SV stands for the same thing that they stood for half a year ago, that they should increase their bets, and that they should not crack?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e110	That's what we're working for. What the government has done is that it has raised the indicative rates of social assistance. The three parties have also taken initiatives towards their local parties, in order to be followed up by local authorities. In addition, we have improved the municipal economy in such a way that it is possible. It is true that the SV programme says that we want state standards. I mean that, but in the government, we agree on the Soria Moria statement, and there are increased social aid rates. We've taken an important step on that now, and I have to say that I'm very proud that we've got it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e115	This increase in the social assistance rates that Karin Andersen now seems to be very proud of, she was quite dissatisfied with not many weeks ago. On the evening post of October 9, she expresses great understanding that people are very disappointed that the increase is no larger. The increase we're talking about is actually $7 per cent. Today, not very impressive. When she herself is very disappointed that the increase was not greater, how can she be so satisfied with the Government's poverty plan, when one of the greatest measures in this poverty plan is a disappointment?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e122	I have expressed an understanding that people who have very poor advice want a higher performance than they have today. Nor am I in doubt that many people would have needed a higher performance than they get. But I think it's strange that this criticism comes from the previous government, which was set for four years and in several of them not even the price-adjusted social assistance rates – and much less put two sticks in the cross to pressure the municipalities to follow up even the small performance. It may be a bit of a hard job to raise the rates of social assistance, I'm going to admit it. But that job I'm going to continue, and I'm proud that we've got the first promise now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e131	An article in Dagbladet on 24 November addressed this issue with welfare contracts. There, the head of the Law Association strongly warned that this affects the legal certainty of the weakest in society. The left goes in for a personal plan, which is a lot more rounder. Does the representative Andersen agree that these welfare contracts can contribute to undermining the legal certainty of the beneficiaries of social assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e138	For welfare contracts, the term contract is more political than a direct legal term. Once we have worked on it, there has been no desire or goal to weaken legal certainty for those who have the most difficulty. On the contrary, we want to improve the rights. In what Left calls a personal plan, you have to get a plan in the past and more contextually, and it has to have a quality and a duration that helps you get out of a difficult life situation – that's the whole scheme. Both the Council of State and I have also expressed in the article in Dagbladet that the point is not the word, the point is that we get both an apparatus – an administrative apparatus, an instrument of intervention – and measures that work for the individual, even for those who do not currently have rights in public security. That's what this is all about. That's what we're going to work on, and we're open to discussing how we're going to use terms and word to get this done.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e143	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e147	Since we were here a year ago, some interesting things have happened in this room. At the 2006 budgetary procedure, the main impression was a new government and a new red-green majority on the offensive, up against a slightly debatable opposition that did not fully address the post-election transition. The Soria Moria statement was smoking fresh. The new government moved billions in three weeks. Only in the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion budget, almost DKK 1.2 billion was proposed and adopted in addition to the first year of the Bondevik II government. The poverty package was increased by nearly half a billion dollars. We increased the number of places of action by a few thousand, we increased the children's supplement to people in vocational rehabilitation and medical rehabilitation, we reintroduced the holiday money for those on daily pay, reversed the tightening of the pay guarantee scheme and maintained the waiting pay system, to mention something. Instead of being tax-free, we chose to start the laborious work of combating poverty. Now, we're not going to use today to discuss the snow that fell last year, but it's important to place the budget of the year in an overall context. The four-year budgetary procedure set the course. This year's budget is the next stage in the fulfilment of the most important of all Soria Moria promises — an inclusive society, turning the negative trend we witnessed in the last period, when the differences between people increased instead of getting smaller. Poverty is to be combated by many different instruments. The opposition uses them all, most of the times to stress that the government came to the covered table. Particular reference is made to labour and social policy. Unfortunately, the majority is not satisfied. We're going to cover that table again. This year, in line with this, the Government has presented an even clearer approach to poverty reduction. Through two action plans, totaling more than DKK 1 billion, the majority, when this meeting is over, have adopted increased measures against poverty of more than DKK 1.5 billion since we took over. Last year the opposition said they couldn't see the new course. Is there still someone who doesn't see it? Towards further tax relief, the new majority of three main pillars of labour and social policy are: a significantly more ambitious labour market policy; a strong increase in the fight against poverty; and the reversal of the previous government's undermining of workers' rights, including a separate action plan against social dumping. This is clear value choices and systematic political efforts to fulfill the promises of the Soria Moria Declaration. Next week, we're going to deal with the budget for the local government sector. Where the previous majority forced the municipalities to tighten the lifeline, this majority of the times carry out the lifting. It was almost a little strange to witness the opposition's proposal, no. 5, during the process of the district and regional notification on Monday. It said, believe it or not, that the opposition asked ‘The government submits a mandatory multi-annual escalation plan to correct the financial imbalances in the municipal sector’. True, your memory is short, but it's not that short, after all. The majority see that things are connected. We have a comprehensive policy on justice and the reconciliation of differences. The majority take the consequence that there are important parts of welfare production in municipalities. Poverty must be combated by a combination of money and services. The majority also have a clear view of further privatisation of important welfare services. There is a clear red-green priority behind the policy change now taking place, at both state and local level. In the next year’s budget, the response to poverty is further escalated. The action plan has several labour market measures. Money is set to start a new universal benefit for those who are currently without rights other than social assistance. The qualification programme, with the corresponding support of around 2 G, shall provide those who need it all, most importantly, with a new chance. The indicative rates of social assistance are actually increasing for the first time in a long time. In line with the Soria Moria Declaration, several measures are targeted specifically at children and young people. Within the labour market measures, we will focus on young lone, single-parents, families with young children, families with many children, immigrants, long-term unemployed, long-term ill and social welfare recipients. We will continue to increase the appropriations in the coming years. It shall be done on a scheduled basis. The paper on work, well-being and inclusion points further, with simplified legislation and better social benefits. The same is true of the pension message and the senior report. The spring comes with a separate selection setting on the disability pension system. We already see many examples of this being over-molded for reforms. Many people want to work, but we have a code that encourages the opposite. Attempts to pay are coming next year, but that's just the beginning. The spring comes with a new anti-discrimination law. Disability is a large group that likes to, but is prevented by prejudices and physical barriers. I initially said that there are some interesting things happening in this room right now. If we read today's budgetary position carefully, it is striking how little opposition has gathered on a real alternative to the policy of the majority. Then I ignore the Progress Party, because they are miles out of course compared to the rest of the Stortinget. I think first of all about the old government partners. It will be exciting to observe what is happening in the debate further here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e166	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e169	The government has talked for a long time and warmly about combating poverty. It says, among other things: in the Soria Moria Declaration that there is a need for ‘a general change in policy to create less economic differences and to improve economic benefits for people living on so low incomes today that it has to be described as poverty’; It is worth noting that the minimum pensioners today are below the EU poverty line. But there's not much government doing except raising the food tax, which hits the poor hard. What the government is doing is proposing that municipalities increase social assistance rates by $10.50. How many fewer poor do the government want the municipalities to increase the social assistance rates by $10.50 and that the government does not increase the minimum pension for those who have built this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e178	Social assistance is intended to be a short-term temporary benefit. Today, we have an unworthy situation where we see that we have many who are long-term social clients. The means to help out of poverty those who are social clients today, I don't think, above all, is to increase rates of social assistance, but to make sure that people have an opportunity to get out of a situation like long-term social welfare recipients. Now, there's the qualifying aid coming in. It starts already on July 1st next year. It will give those people who are currently trapped in the social welfare system a new chance to get out of that situation. In the case of minimum pensioners, it is not quite right for the Government not to do anything, because here again – for that group too – it is talking about money or services. Housing must, for example: In the discussion about what we're doing for the minimum pensioners. Of the minimum pensioners who live alone, there are 38 psts. receiving housing aid. The housing aid ceiling was increased by NOK 10 000 last year, and we are now introducing a monthly payment scheme, which also improves the liquidity situation for that group. Maybe we should keep going along that way. It might hit those we're most likely to hit, in the best possible way, because we know that many minimum pensioners also have other incomes, and we have to catch those who are the worst-timers, also in that group.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e185	In 2004, a project was launched in the municipality of Drammen to help young people receiving social assistance to get a new chance in their working life. The project ‘Skreedersøm’ was a cooperation between the social services, Aetat and Frtex, and started as a result of an earmarked allocation from the Centre-Right Government in line with our poverty action plan. Here, 78 of the 80 people who were involved were brought back to work. The red-green majority chose to cut this measure in its budget for 2006. As a result, the measure had to be discontinued and, consequently, in Drammen the municipality lost a good opportunity to try out in the workplace. Can the representative explain why this allocation was suspended? And the representative will support the Right proposal to earmark $10 million. kr, so that projects such as ‘Shallow’ can start up again?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e194	The drama municipality is in a situation similar to that of some other municipalities, and of course it would be great if I, who is from the Drammen, could say yes, here I have 10 million. kr on the back pocket. But the municipality of Drammen is like a lot of other municipalities, in the lucky situation that it has more than $10 million in the municipal register as a result of this government's 2007 budget proposal and the 2006 budget. Here there are some possibilities in the municipality itself. But I'm going to give the representative Martin Engeset right in one thing, and it's not just about the drama. It's about the way we've practiced it until now. We're rigging new trials, new projects, which are being tested for a period of time. Maybe they're evaluated, maybe they're not evaluated, maybe they're not evaluated. New projects are starting up. Here, in the majority, we have taken initiatives towards the ministry, as we want a clean-up in this. We want more long-term bets than random projects from there to there. And there's no Drammen in any particular position compared to other municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e201	The government rates on general labour market measures next year, and in many ways it is good. But it is a dilemma when it is not put in a similar way on the disabled. Today, 30 000 disabled people are in line for action. These are the ones that have the greatest need to get into work. The representative said that she would cover the table again, and we now see the result. The red-green parties have cut the appropriations for these in several rounds, and the budget adopted by the Stortinget today is no good news for those who are struggling with drug problems and mental problems. Does the representative of Christoffersen think that it is consistent with the red-green election vows that the most effort is put on those who need less help to get work? Is that how the table should be covered?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e210	In fact, there is also an effort to increase measures for people with disabilities. In fact, this government has granted money to more places in labour market measures than the previous government did. Then, of course, we can also have a general discussion here as to whether it is right that the Storting should go down and control at that level of detail, or whether we should perhaps have changed the whole scheme so that the Storing had granted a sum that it was up to those who produced the action sites to get the most out of it. It would give even greater leeway to get more places out of what we're actually giving. But it's an increase from this government in relation to what the previous government stood for.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e217	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e220	Through good cooperation with employees, treating doctors, employers and NAV offices, the Progress Party believes that it must be possible to bring many more people back to work. In its alternative proposal for a State budget, the Progress Party proposes several proposals that will provide both unemployed, unemployed, time-limited and ill-appointed opportunities to get into productive work, rather than having to be unemployed, fully sick or totally or partially unemployed. In the case of the Progress Party, the aim is to ensure that as many as possible of those who are currently disabled or unemployees who are able to participate in the labour market are able to do so. It is important that, through various measures such as wage subsidies and job opportunities, provision is made for the re-participation of disabled people in the labour market. This will increase the quality of life of the many people who want to return to work, while saving society too much. The Progress Party has been made aware on several occasions that a somewhat rigid regulatory framework and a little flexible system make it difficult to find the optimal solutions for the individual. An example is from the Newspaper on December 6th this year, when someone who wants to drive a minibus is denied. The government says they want to increase the effort to combat poverty. Unfortunately, the Government does not put in place the measures that seem necessary to effectively combat poverty in Norway. According to the Norwegian Pensioners' Association, 246 000 minimum pensioners live on a pension that makes them below the poverty line of the OECD. Unfortunately, the Government is completely absent in providing this group of poor people with a better standard of living. There are several important measures that can be taken to combat poverty. The two main individual measures are, in the view of the Progress Party, a reduction in the high level of taxation and a requirement for the beneficiary of social assistance and other public social benefits. By increasing numbers of people getting work and reducing social security contributions, more people will be able to get out of poverty. The State must reduce the burden imposed by the State itself on those who have the least and who reinforce the problems of vulnerable individuals and families. Therefore, in the opinion of the Progress Party, the State should start by lowering the social charges for those who have the least. High sick leave affects businesses, individuals and society as a whole. High sick leave may have many reasons, including: there may be signs of mismanagement or unacceptable pressure in the workplace. Long-term sick leave may endanger jobs. In particular, small enterprises with special competence are very vulnerable. Sick leave is also a major burden on the high-paying society of the state. The Progress Party is seriously concerned that sick leave has increased again over time, especially in the public sector. This despite too much effort to reduce sick leave. Particularly worrying is the fact that sick leave goes up despite the fact that the agreement on inclusive working life is further expanded and improved and should be known in the workplace. The Progress Party notes that in its draft State budget, the Government had made changes to the rules on sick pay. Employers were due to pay more during the sick pay period. This would hit employers hard. In addition, this would most likely result in workers who belong to the groups of the population who have higher sick leave than others being pushed out of work. The Party further notes that the Government has concluded an agreement to continue the contract for an inclusive working life. The Progress Party therefore considers that the Government's procedure in this matter has been extremely unfortunate. I believe that it should respect concluded agreements, and I have always believed that the IA agreement should be continued during the contractual period unless the parties jointly wanted changes. The government subsequently chose to set up a party-based sample, led by the Prime Minister, who has now made alternative proposals to reduce the cost of health pay. The Progress Party accepts the revised IA agreement, as the parties to the IA work have joined the new agreement. However, we would point out that it is important to take seriously the inclusion of older workers in the labour market. When the lower rate of employer’s pay for seniors is now increasing and is to be replaced by other measures, we expect the Government to take this seriously and demonstrate through the new IA agreement that the new measures will have the desired effect. It is also necessary to allocate the necessary resources for this follow-up in cooperation with the parties, organisations and institutions dealing with these challenges. The Progress Party welcomes the proposal in the new IA Agreement on the purchase of health services and rehabilitation for workers in need. This will ensure that more workers can return to work quickly after a period of illness. The Progress Party has pointed this out as an action for many years, and I am pleased that the Government has also realised that this old Progress Party proposal makes sense. We believe that this can also be used in private health institutions, not just in public. Many pensioners have a good financial record, but it is mainly those who have earned supplementary pensions through a long career. Unfortunately, too many pensioners, especially the minimum pensioners, are struggling financially. Many of these have been at home and have taken care of children for a long time, caring parents/nursers, as well as doing valuable chores in the home. The Progress Party believes that the other parties have too easily forgotten the past efforts of the minimum pensioners in society. The standard of living of minimum pensioners today is not worthy. Therefore, the Progress Party wants to give minimum pensioners an economic boost so that their daily lives do not just have to be a struggle to pay bills. The pension of minimum pensioners shall be at a level that also provides financial opportunities to experience what many others take for granted. The Progress Party therefore proposes to increase the minimum pension by NOK 13 000 per year, so that it becomes twice the basic amount of the population's money. Over several years, pensions have been under-regulated in relation to normal employee income. The Progress Party believes that the regulation of pensions must in the future be raised to the same level as for employees. Married and cohabiting pensioners are now more closely aligned with single pensioners after the 2003 budget agreement provided for greater equality of opportunity for the Progress Party. The Progress Party wants those who receive a pension and thereby have acquired a right through a long life to not be penalised financially by the pension because they are married or cohabited. We believe that all curtailments should be removed, and therefore suggest that the Government be asked to submit a plan to reduce the curtailment of the basic pension of married and cohabiting pensioners in the context of the revised national budget for 2007. The aim of the Progress Party is to ensure that as many people as possible are ill return to work quickly. Purchases of healthcare are an effective way to do this. The Progress Party will reintroduce the old health care purchase scheme and will want it to be fully incorporated under the new labour and welfare seat. This will have a positive effect, for example: on sick pay payments and unnecessary problems for workers and businesses can be considerably reduced. The Progress Party therefore proposes that this scheme be strengthened by 100 million. kr. The party of progress is concerned that those in need of social security benefits should receive it, at a level that gives the insured a dignified life. At the same time, it is essential to intensify work on social security abuse. The party of progress will point out that the cost of the funeral may represent a not insignificant tax on the economy of several families. In a situation where a family member has gone missing, excessive expenditure on a dignified funeral may be perceived as an additional burden, if the economy is too tight. Today, the cost of a minimum funeral may exceed NOK 25 000. The Progress Party therefore considers that there is a need for a review of today’s system of gravitational assistance. The scheme must be such that even those with a bad economy are guaranteed a decent minimum burial. The Progress Party has therefore made proposals to ask the Government, in the context of the revised 2007 national budget, to present a separate case dealing with excavation aid, to explain what costs are for a worthy minimum burial, as well as whether there are large differences between parts of the country. The Progress Party is aware that the Government has presented its own big message on senior policy and that this in itself is very positive. The Progress Party has called for it on several occasions, including in the form of letters to the Council of State. The Progress Party refers to the reconciliation between the social partners and the Government with regard to the IA Agreement, and records that the parties have agreed to increase the employer’s contribution for employees over 62 years of age. We are not pleased with this, but, as I have said before, the Progress Party accepts the agreed agreement. The Progress Party also believes that the older workers, i.e. those over 62 years of age, possess a very valuable competence that the Norwegian labour market cannot miss. Unfortunately, more and more of the elderly are being excluded from the labour market today. This is due to many factors, but perhaps one of the most important ones is that there is not enough competence among managers in both the public and private sectors on how to use this group as a resource. The Progress Party therefore considers that there is a need for more targeted action to enhance the competence of leaders in both the public and private sectors in terms of senior policy. We believe it is important to start a close dialogue with the organisations, such as: Senior Policy Centres, to enable them to actively participate in the design of targeted actions that can improve their competence. We propose, together with the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, that in the context of the revised 2007 national budget, the Government present a separate case on how to improve the competence of leaders in order to promote a better senior policy. I'm addressing the suggestions I've referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e266	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e272	On the last day before Christmas last year, the Progress Party launched a proposal for an additional 170 million. NOK to give a Christmas gift of NOK 1000 to those receiving social assistance. I think it is commendable that the Progress Party is thinking about the beneficiaries of social assistance, but this proposal was promoted after the government budget was adopted. There was no proposal on it in the past, and the proposal came after all the debate had been avoided. Does the representative Svendsen think that this is the right way to conduct policies in the national Parliament? Is it the case that the Progress Party first discovers social clients just before Christmas? Can we expect this year, too, a surprise, a Christmas present, on the last day of the Biggest?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e279	Giving Christmas presents to Christmas is a good thing that everyone should do. In connection with the ageing of the state budget, it turns out that we have huge profits. Some of that surplus we wanted to share last year with those who are poor in Norway. We therefore proposed that they should have an increase of NOK 1000, so that they could make purchases for their children, for themselves, and perhaps have a good Christmas dinner. Unfortunately, the whole Stortinget, other than the Advance Party, voted against this. They didn't want to give the poorest in this country a little bit more than what they had, and a better Christmas. We're sorry about that. But that's the way it was, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e286	We have heard a lot about the desire of the Progress Party to increase the minimum pension, through the Committee's position and also through the contribution that the representative Svendsen has just made. However, I have noted with interest and a certain amazement – I have to say – that the party he represents does nothing about the equal treatment of married and unmarried pensioners. This requires an explanation. I expect the representative to give me an explanation as to whether the equal treatment of married and unmarried pensioners is suddenly a forgotten or hidden matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e291	Thank you for a good question. This year, we have concentrated on increasing minimum pensions by NOK 13 000, up to the OECD minimum standard. It will provide a boost for both cohabitants and married pensioners and for single pensioners. It's very important to us. Then we haven't forgotten our old case, which goes on equal treatment of married or cohabiting pensioners and single pensioners. That is why, in the State budget, we have now put forward a proposal to bring this matter back into the revised national budget. In the negotiations with the former government parties, we reached an agreement with, among other things. Right about an increase to increase equality among pensioners, which we were very pleased with. I hope to be able to invite the previous government parties to raise this further in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e302	Through the post of the representative Svendsen we have been presented with the butter side of the proposal of the Progress Party. The only thing I found there that I think is honest is that, as he said, he wants more whip and less help for those who have difficulty – and then he thinks that people should get out of poverty. If we look at the cuts that the Progress Party implements in this budget, not only in the auxiliaries, but also in terms of measures for the unemployed and measures to enable lone carers to get training and jobs, I have to say that I think it looks pretty bad. One of the worst cuts, which affects some of the poorest in this country, is not on this budget, but it's a cut of 350 million. kr for the protection of children. When we know that new social assistance clients today are largely young people who come from child protection, how can the Progress Party explain this cut and, in addition, think that there is a whip to make these kids feel better?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e309	The Party of Progress shall not introduce a whip. We're introducing something that's common in the whole community, that we're making demands. A part of the Progress Party group was visiting a municipality in Denmark yesterday, where I personally asked the rapporteur about this with social assistance rates and demands for work done. He said it is quite obvious that demands are to be made. If a person is unwell and has alcohol problems, try to wean. That's a requirement. It's supposed to be that if you need a clean-up in the park, it's going to be a demand for a return to society. One is to make demands. The second is that these people who are dependent on social assistance and have nothing to do with it get social intercourse with other people by participating in the labour market. It's also an important thing to get people to work more. This is why the Progress Party has done this – not to whip, but to help these people into a new working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e318	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e321	In many areas, the government of Stoltenberg – the sitting – came to the covered table in the autumn of 2005. This is not least the case in the field of labour and social policy. For how is the government itself, in the welfare communication, describing the situation in Norway in 2006, after four years of what they called a Right-dominated Government? I quote: ‘Norway is the society of opportunity. The vast majority of those living in Norway have a secure economy and a high level of material well-being. Unemployment is low and participation is high. We have a high level of education, an efficient economy and relatively small differences between people.’ On behalf of the former Minister of Finance Per Kristian Foss and the previous majority of the population, I thank you for that certificate. I think it's okay to sign this in the beginning, because we've recently become very used to the fact that the red-greens have developed a bleak tendency to claim that everything that goes wrong is the fault of others, and that everything that goes well is their profit. Enough about that. What should really worry and create a violent political debate is the fact that between 700,000 and 800,000 working-age Nordics are out of work. In the view of the Right, this is the greatest challenge and defeat of the welfare society. The responsibility for its becoming so must be borne by an overall political environment. I won't even try to allocate blame and responsibility, just establish the following: This situation calls for political leadership, political courage and willingness to think completely new. And in this fight all good forces should stand together to get results. Because we can no longer tacitly accept or look at the unworthy, the totally unacceptable, which is that as a society we let people who can and will contribute both fall out of work. Where people today meet with offers of money, against being passive and away from work, right-wing politics will turn their heads: we will give all those who want and can, a new chance to get on their feet again, to become independent people who do not depend on the goodwill of the public to ensure their own well-being. An 18-year-old who comes to the social office will not be offered social assistance; he will be offered a job. A 45-year-old disability who wants to try out in the workplace should not lose the disability but get a new chance. Maybe he or she is able to work two days a week and be dissatisfied with the three others. Nice! It could be a new start. A 67-year-old who does not want or need to lose a pension should not have to do so. Neither should he or she be punished financially to continue working. A 35-year-old with a high level of education, but with disabilities — what some would call disability — must have a so-called Green Card, or a guarantee certificate, which demonstrates that the public will set up and cover the costs of organising the workplace. I am convinced that most of those who today receive social security or other benefits actually want to contribute to the labour market. Although many who have been out of work for many years may have lost confidence and faith in themselves and feel unable to contribute 100 pst. in the workplace, a 40, 60 or 75 pst. the position is far better than being fully on the outside. For work and activity is important to most of us. Of course, in addition to the economic side of the matter, the social community at work is essential for self-esteem and personal development. That is why the Right has called for all those who are physically and mentally healthy and able to work to have a right and an obligation to get into action. The public must be able to make demands on the individual and individual should be able to require individual assistance on the way back to work. In a situation where both the public and private sectors are almost screaming for labour, we now have a better chance than ever to include vulnerable groups in the labour market. If we don't get this right now, we'll never do it. Therefore, in its alternative state budget, a number of measures have been prioritised by the Right. Let me mention someone: unemployment benefit as a wage subsidy across the country, a total of 1 000 new job vacancies for people with disabilities in addition to the Government’s proposal for an employer’s contribution towards new apprenticeships, job placements, green care and ‘Snow in the door’ projects poverty-oriented labour market measures labour-oriented measures for people with mental health problems etc. The sum of all this, and more so, makes it clear to me that the Right is more offensive to poverty than the government parties have provided – this is because our actions are more, more targeted and stronger than the Government's focus on both combating poverty for those who are poor today and preventing new people from falling into the poverty trap. Total bets Right 125 million. more than the Government on poverty reduction measures. Even though the Government's poverty package also contains several isolated good suggestions, it is taken into account when the two largest items can be characterised as creative bookkeeping and handing over the bill to others. If we are to achieve the goal of a much more inclusive working life, regardless of the IA agreement or not, and succeed in giving many of the 700,000 – 800,000 that are now outside, a new chance, it has to be thought again. There must be some daring grips, and some political kelphers must be put on the stable. In particular, it is important that the various policy areas are seen in the context, and that policy solutions in different sectors and fields of action are drawn in the same direction: An active poverty policy must therefore be directed towards encouraging those who can get to work.It is therefore important that a tax policy is put in place that pays off.It is therefore important that a welfare policy is put in place to ensure that it is not more profitable to go on social security or get social benefits than to work.It is therefore important that the pension system pays off to those who are in work any longer and does not encourage people to go off as early as possible.We must make demands, also to our new countrymen, that it should be so that in Norway everyone should provide to benefit from the Norwegian welfare society.And last but not least, we must have a law that makes the threshold into working life the lowest possible for vulnerable groups. In order to secure and further develop the welfare society, it is essential that we succeed in implementing the NAV reform. This reform, which was proposed and adopted by the Bondevik II Government, now has the joy of implementing today's red-green government. I believe and hope that the Government will carry out this reform in a good way. The main actions that we have seen so far – through the well-being message – promise well. However, the right wants a clearer and stronger focus on how to pay for work and not to pay for social security or social benefits, as well as a greater pace of implementation of the NAV reform. I can at least promise that the Right should be constructive and contribute to the success of the NAV reform, especially for users, that the reform will ensure that more people return to work and activity more quickly, and that the offers will be simpler and better adapted to the individual's needs. Finally, I feel the need to make a little heart attack, also – and not least – on the basis of parts of what we have heard in the debate so far. The political rhetoric of many of the red-green representatives is served by in the public debate – not all, but many – is sadly influenced by the envy principle, where one is more concerned about taking away from the rich than giving to the poor. It often sounds like commitment is much stronger when they talk about that we have too many rich, than when they talk about that we have too many poor. The left side has traditionally been more concerned with keeping people back. But we're actually helping no one, and at least not the poor, by trying to keep the rich and the resource strong down. On behalf of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, I would like to address the suggestions made in the vote on page 49.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e399	The representative Martin Engeset has taken up the suggestions he made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e404	The last heartache of the representative Engeset was probably worth a reply in itself. But I want to focus on the unemployed and the unemployment situation. Now it's like the one year off with the Stoltenberg government has been reduced by one third compared to what it was under Bondevik's right-wing rule. But we still have over 50,000 unemployed, and a quarter of these have been unemployed for more than half a year. We say it's important to get back to work early to get people back to work, and that's absolutely right. But the same is true of the unemployed in relation to labour market measures. What we see is that right-hand cuts in labour market measures of 206 million. kr. They also cut unemployment benefits, holiday pay and waiting days compared to what the Stoltenberg government provided last year and this year. Is it such that the Right still clings to the notion that day money is genius for molluscs, and that squeezing for this group makes them start work again?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e411	First of all, I have to arrest the representative's attempt to describe history and the very light and not a little rude attempt to take credit for the fact that unemployment is now falling. The State budget adopted in December 2005 was presented by the Government of Bondevik with Per-Kristian Foss as Minister of Finance, and in essence the economic policy pursued in 2006 is the policy adopted in December 2005, with only a few minor changes to the new majority. In fact, one apologized last year for having such a bad time and not being able to make so many changes, and it is, above all, frank and not particularly credible to claim that unemployment is falling due to their own policies. It is probably best to say that it is a consequence of a good policy over four years and good international economic activity. Then to unemployment in relation to measures: we give priority to those who are disabled, much stronger than the Government. Now, the labour market in general is so good that it is right to downgrade the normal labour market measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e419	There's a lot in that post that Engeset had, I could have signed. It's worth working, said Engeset, which is a good principle. A tax system that facilitates more people to work is also a very good principle. And I fully agree with Engeset in describing the red-green envy-based tax system, which is going to take away from the rich in the belief that it helps the poor. But I noticed in something else of what was said in the article to Engeset. He says that we must ‘make demands, also to our new countrymen, that in Norway it should be so that everyone should provide to benefit from the Norwegian welfare society’. I think that is an interesting statement, and I fully agree with it. But I could imagine getting it deepened more.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e426	Then I would like to refer to a book that the Right published just a few weeks ago, called "New Chance" – it is recommended on the warmest, even for the red-green representatives of the Hall – where religious historian Hanne Nabintu Herland writes the following: ‘Nordics themselves have created the social welfare society, not the immigrants. Norway itself is responsible for its own policies. For nine years, the Norwegian system has explained non-Western immigrants and asylum seekers about rights to social benefits, without making demands for benefits. The rights orientation of Norwegian society has become a curse that has given a clear signal to immigrants: this is the country where no one needs to work.’ To say it this way: I think she's near a point!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e436	I hope the representative from the Right has come to realize that Norway is perhaps that country apart from Iceland where employment is highest, so it is now with shame to report a strange description of the society we live in. I also notice that in the Right, the concept of justice has no real meaning to those who have it the most difficult. One of the reasons why SV is so concerned about this is for example: something that stood in a chronicle in the newspaper this week, a chronicle by a professor at the Statens Arbeitsweltinstitutt, Petter Kristensen. His message was clear: ‘Low social position and poor health are linked, and health is gradually better the higher the position.’ And also: ‘There is a link between social position and absenteeism’. This is old news. The surprising thing is that the context is so strong, and he challenges us on the following: ‘The strengthening of inequalities cannot be acceptable in a society where social equality and justice are a goal.’ What does Right think about this when they call it envy to want to do something about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e447	We're concerned that everyone should get a new chance, and I have to say I react very strongly to the fact that Andersen's representative thinks it's a bad description of the society I'm giving. I actually thought that there was a fairly broad political consensus that the fact that 700,000-800 000 are out of the labour market and depend on social security and social welfare to do is a problem for both the welfare community and the people involved, that it is the main challenge, and that the best thing we can do to create equal opportunities is to pursue a policy that gives them a new chance, not passive support to actually stay away from the labour market. That's why we in our alternative state budget have prioritised this so high that we have a targeted poverty response package that is better than the government's, and that we have a strong commitment to recruiting new labour. This is the main challenge for the Norwegian economy and society in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e452	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e455	It is positive that the government builds on the good foundation that was laid under the government of Bondevik II. I am thinking in particular of the NAV reform, which is well under way, and which will be an important tool to help the individual return to work and activity. We must make sure that the reform becomes an interaction reform and not just a co-location reform. The Christian People's Party wants special units that do not require closeness to users, but one must always focus on holistics so that no new barriers arise to users. The previous government also provided the basis for a pension reform that stimulates older people to continue working if they have health. Work must pay off, and there must be room for great flexibility so that one can combine work and social security. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to help those who find it most difficult to get into the world of work. It's scary to see how small it is to hire a disabled person. If an applicant has a wrong name, the application is often thrown into the trash bin. Discrimination and prejudice must be combated so that these groups do not participate in poverty statistics. Calling for an interview by at least one qualified applicant must be a minimum. Drug addicts and mentally ill people often need long-term qualification and follow-up to enter the workplace. Many have been helped by the special labour market measures, which is why the Christian People's Party prioritises this group in our alternative budget and increases the item by 170 million. kr. In our opinion, it is very unfortunate that the government first cut 172 million. kr in the revised national budget and then in St.prp. No 14 more cutters, another 215 million. in labour market measures for disabled persons. This is a serious and negative signal to this group, who had faith that the Government would get them out of poverty and a difficult situation. Professionally disabled people have been down-prioritized this year. The need is great. Nearly 30,000 people are in line to test their abilities and skills. The capacity and competence of the management companies with which the NAV budget can play are available. It is worrying that sick leave has increased in the last year, and that the cost of sick pay is expected to increase by nearly NOK 3.7 billion to next year. The Christian People's Party understands the need for active action, but it was wrong to require employers to pay most of these costs. After the employer had covered the first 14 calendar days, employers had to pay 20 pst. the first six months of sick leave and then 10 pst. out of sickness benefit period. The proposals were promoted without the involvement of the parties to the agreement on an inclusive working life. The process was very unfortunate. Fortunately, this is not adopted. A Joint Committee was set up, and proposals have now been made on which all parties to the IA Agreement agree. More active measures are now proposed early in the health notification period, better and more obligatory follow-up and clarification of responsibilities, as well as better control. This supports the Christian People's Party. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to clarify that classified medical messages should always be the first choice unless there are obvious medical reasons for 100 pst. search message. Strong signals have emerged that the legislation is interpreted very differently. We are therefore promoting a proposal for the Government to draw up a regulation that clarifies the understanding of the health legislation. The Christian People's Party is concerned that young women should have the opportunity to start their own business. Then it is important to facilitate the situation so that this is possible. We will equalise social security rights at birth, maternity and child care with the rules applicable to other workers. I will come back to this in the debate on Document No. 8:113 a little later today. Finally, I refer to the proposals that have been made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e476	The representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e481	Both posts and replies here today have shown that we have no overall opposition to the Government's proposal. I also think I see the Christian People's Party's own proposal as a first sign of perhaps more clearly marking a distance from former government partners, and that a desire to place less emphasis on tax havens and more emphasis on social policy measures. This question is neither rhetorical nor evil, because for several periods I have collaborated with the Christian People's Party in local politics, so I'm basically more excited about the answer: do we now have a movement in the Christian People's Party's politics more towards what the majority in this Chamber stands for? At one point, the whole opposition is united, criticising the Government for being too passive in relation to the action plan against poverty, and I record that the opposition now has more money than the majority. But that's not what I'm going to ask. What I intend to ask is: What active measures did Bondevik II have that Stoltenberg II does not have?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e490	There were a lot of questions. First, there was a question about where we're going. The Christian People's Party stands safely planted in the center and cooperates both ways. The representative suggested that we used to be on higher taxes. That's because we looked at the devices. They were giving tax credits to business, so we could have a big cake to distribute. It was one of the grips that was good. We had an active labour market policy, so that sick leave was going down, and good cooperation with the social partners. We were the first to make a strategy plan when it came to poverty. We also set up an action plan for people with disabilities and took a great deal of action in relation to immigrants, who are weak groups with difficulty entering the labour market. All these measures were important.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e499	Both in the Financial Committee, in the Foreign Affairs Committee and in several other committees, the Christian People's Party and the Red-Green Parties have agreed on changes to the Government's original draft government budget for 2007. Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen has characterised the alternative budget of the Christian People's Party as a variant of the red-green budget. We in the Progress Party have registered that Christian People's Party representatives are subjected to considerable courtesy from several members of the government. However, in the Labour and Social Committee, the majority did not move in one krona on the initiative of the Christian People's Party. It is therefore interesting to ask the representative Woie Duesund whether this is because she is really very satisfied with the government's priorities. Or is it perhaps because she is a little susceptible to red-green courtesy?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e506	As a little older lady, I am very susceptible to courtesy and charm. But I have to be clear and tell the representative, Kjenaas Kjos, that I was neither charmed by nor satisfied with the budget that the Government provided. What I was least satisfied with was that it was revised for the 30,000 disabled who were in line to get involved in reintroduction measures, which I find to be outrageous, and that it was not cut down now in the next year's budget. There's a weak group, and they need help. And then there are possibilities. There is no capacity available, and there is competence. I was also disappointed that they would not meet us regarding the homeless. It is a group that really lives in need and poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e516	It is probably true that the Christian People's Party's policies in the field of employment and social affairs are very close to those of the Government. I just want to remind the representative of the redeploying power that lies with regard to ordinary labour market measures and measures for the disabled, which the Government has the possibility to use, and which can thereby enable the action of the Christian People's Party to be taken. The representative was very busy in his contribution on sick pay. One of the things that I find difficult with the Christian People's Party's arrangement is that they propose a slight change in the sick pay scheme that has actually been adopted before, and that is no change in practice. And then they're able to calculate that with this little grip they're going to save 225 million. kr, without any kind of evidence that this would result in such savings. Can the representative explain how this calculation has arisen and why this change, which is not a change, should have such a result?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e523	I'm not quite sure what Karin Andersen is aiming for, but...
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e528	... the proposal the Christian People's Party has promoted...
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e533	Yeah, but which of them does the representative think about, what's the regulation? It was about making it visible that there have been very different practices in relation to using classified search messages, that it should be the first choice. That's why there might be less need for search messages. It can't be that hard to figure out. Firstly, as the representative mentioned on labour market measures and that one can redeploy something from ordinary measures to measures for the disabled: I am pleased, but at the same time, the Government has given a very bad signal as to which group they prioritise. It has been very important for me to clarify.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e540	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e543	It's good times in the country. Unemployment is falling, we have high economic growth, and most of us experience security for work and income. But there are exceptions, and the best test of the quality of the welfare society is how we deal with those who don't get involved in welfare growth. When the government gives back the holiday allowance for daily allowances, which we have already adopted, or when it in this budget reduces the number of waiting days for the unemployed to receive the daily allowance, this is a considerable handshake for those who have the most difficulty. It is brutal to stand without work, and one does not gather the strength to find new work if one in addition should experience a break in the family economy. The Progress Party will use the opportunity to save NOK 1 billion in this area. Although the other opposition parties have more modest ambitions, I record common comments, as the one where members of the Progress Party, Right and Left ‘point out that the possibility of getting into work on leave today is good’. They therefore believe that there is no reason to worry about the loss of income during the time when you are out of work. Or similarly, that the Progress Party does not understand that there is reason to provide unemployed holiday supplements, because many will be in work again when it is paid. So these guys are going to be happy to get a new job, and don't worry that they can't afford to take their kids on vacation in the coming year. It's the way we signal how the welfare society, the society that's richer than it's ever been, should deal with those who fall outside for a period of time. It is not just through the poverty action plan that we can help balance differences. Within the budget of the Labour and Social Committee, we will be able to measure in most areas according to our will to balance living conditions and to take responsibility for the most disadvantaged. For all parts, even for government parties, the objectives have been achieved. It's positive when we meet critical assessments in this room, because we're going to do more. But I want to give the government credit that it has also contributed through this budget to our being well on track in achieving the objectives of the Soria Moria Declaration. The distribution policy has benefited greatly from the change of government we received a year ago. The NAV reform and pension reform are the major issues in the work of the Labour and Social Committee this major period. Work is well done through the two communications we are now discussing in the Committee. The NAV reform has been adopted, the first NAV offices have been opened, and over 100 more will be added in the next year. The cooperation between the Central and NAV Directorate of Labour and Welfare in the counties and municipalities is crucial for our success. I record that from the municipal sector and KS, good processes are generally reported, but also an experienced press in some places to adapt to the wishes of the county-nav offices for inter-municipal solutions. I am pleased that the ambitions for an NAV office in all municipalities are so clearly expressed by the Government. This was last marked in the census in this room a few months ago. It is also important that the local NAV Office be able to meet users with competence in the very wide range of NAV services. It's not enough with a face behind a counter. The Agency shall be able to meet users with knowledge and means of assistance and with decision-making powers to make use of appropriate measures adapted to individual needs and opportunities. We have adopted the NAV reform to improve the well-being of the community. Some expressed fears that the skills currently available at social security and employment offices will be replaced by a telephone number or Internet address of a centralised service unit must not be allowed to become a reality. An overall committee, albeit at different points of observation, has followed the desire of the hearing-impaired organisations to maintain the current organisation of interpreting services in the labour market. I am pleased that we can follow a clear advice in this way, but I would also like to refer to the majority comment where the Government is encouraged to set up a probationary system in which one gets to try out the model of administrative organisation under the aid centres. It's not certain that we've found the right solution for the future. Should it prove that such an alternative organisation is successful, there is reason to raise the matter again. I'd like to signal it to the government. I assume this will happen in close cooperation with those who are most affected by this, namely the deaf organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e562	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e565	A recent research report from the Norwegian Centre for Rural Research at NTNU in Trondheim, presented in the Address Paper last Tuesday, states the following: «Norwegian farmers will pick up between 35000 and 40000 workers from Eastern Europe in the years to come.» [[...]] Given that 60 pst. by the farmers in the survey, does it seem perfectly right that unsustainable pay and working conditions are offered: does the representative Sundsbø and the Central Party believe that this will help to weaken the legitimacy of agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e575	If that's what I don't want, it's to be part of and weaken the legitimacy of agriculture. And if that's what I'm going to react strongly to, it's if, on the agricultural side, you offer employment and pay conditions to non-resident workers that are contrary to the laws and regulations we have in this society. I want to do everything I can to encourage farmers to have respect for the importance of avoiding social dumping as a result of strong inequalities in income opportunities depending on the country from which they come. It's not the last thing that decides what to do. That's what the job you're doing is going to decide, and I hope the Progress Party agrees with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e582	The FFO and SAFO are both umbrellas for connecting membership organisations for persons with different disabilities. Both the FFO and SAFO organise people who, due to a challenging everyday life, need holidays and welfare measures. Despite obvious similarities between FFO and SAFO, government parties will only provide FFO with funding for local holidays and welfare measures next year. SAFO doesn't get anything. Does the representative Dagfinn Sundsbø believe that there are objective reasons why disabled people connected to the FFO will receive a better holiday and leisure offer next year than members intended for SAFO?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e589	As far as I remember, this was a matter which we discussed primarily in the 2006 budget, and where we have continued in the 2007 budget the arrangements that were then established. It is difficult to address how to facilitate this type of action for a series of organisations. I am aware that there may be some disagreement between the organisations about what is right and fair, and I would not like to contribute to the fragmentation of these types of umbrella organisations. I think the government is holding a relatively firm hand over how to organize grants in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e595	That's 2 million. extra to municipalities with a view to increasing social assistance rates. That's good. My question to the representative Sundsbø is on the qualification contracts. How is this intended to be implemented in practice when it is known that the Centre Party, with a number of others, is in favour of strong local autonomy, and also strongly opposed to earmarked means? Sees the representative Health raised some challenges in relation to the qualification contracts, or welfare contracts, looking up against it per year. Are the local social offices responsible for payments today?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e600	If I understand the representative of Skkelstad right, he believes that we should not introduce welfare contracts, or qualification aid, because it may become an offer that gives a right regardless of whether you live in one or the other municipality. I think that in the same way that we're going to be entitled to education in this country, we're also going to have a national standard to ensure that people get away from social assistance and get into a work situation. In fact, I believe it is important that, in cooperation with the municipalities, we develop this instrument – which I have so far also registered has been positively received – as something that the municipalities can have in common, and that we facilitate that long-term beneficiaries of social assistance can get away from social assistance and into a lasting situation as social partners participating in the labour market. In fact, I consider the right to qualification support to be one of the most constructive and positive aspects of this budget, but we should first of all discuss this when we come to the communication on employment, inclusion and welfare. I really look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e605	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e608	I must correct a clear misunderstanding immediately. The left is, of course, for welfare contracts, but under a different name. I think the representative Sundsbø misunderstood my question about how this should be organised, whether it should be a government arrangement or not. Enough about that. The left stresses that each citizen's ability to create the good life for himself and his own is the goal of social development. People are different and need different solutions. Welfare services must always be based on respect for the integrity of individuals and be adapted to the needs and needs of individuals as much as possible. For the Left, welfare policy is about a strong state of public welfare, which offers equal opportunities and dares to give priority to those who need it the most. The Left notes that the Government is continuing its work on the NAV reform, which was adopted under the Cooperation Government, where the Left was involved. Successful reform will be an important prerequisite for a better and more targeted welfare policy, especially towards those who need it the most. The left has noticed that the Labour Party's resistance to scabbarding has been abandoned, and that the Government is essentially following the lines of the previous government in the fight against poverty. The left wants to give praise to the Government for its commitment to more individual solutions for social welfare recipients. But after the attacks that occurred in the last period against the Bondevik government from the current government parties, the Left expected a revolution for the poorest. The left has the objective of introducing a citizen's wage, a guaranteed minimum income for all those who, for different reasons, do not enter the ordinary working life and therefore cannot provide for themselves. At the same time, a civil pay scheme shall not lead to inaction and prevent active job-seeking for the beneficiaries. It should be a personal action plan, which should be broadly defined. The individual user must himself be involved in setting a measure of his activity, which must not mean wage work, but which can accommodate activities that give each individual the opportunity to help themselves to a better and more stable life. The left believes that a citizen pay solution will help to prevent people from feeling like clients, counteract passivity and make it easier for individuals to know what is required for minimum public benefits. Citizen pay undoubtedly creates more dignity and justice in social policy, because it opens up more individual-oriented solutions, which are the Left's vision. Different people with different problems require new and individual solutions. The left is aware that this does not solve all the poverty problems, but it will be a first step towards prioritising a probationary system that provides long-term beneficiaries of social assistance with a civil salary of 2 G. The pilot project is requested to be carried out in 10 municipalities and with a 60 million framework. kr. In the opinion of the Left, the working line of all will not work. The government's proposal for a qualification programme has many good intentions, as we have seen it sketched so far, but it does not take sufficient account of those who are unable to help themselves. Therefore, the Left believes that the system of pay for citizens is better – a guaranteed minimum income for all, combined with a personal plan for the individual, which gives the opportunity to take control of your life and create the best possible life. There is a group of people who fall outside social arrangements, namely those who are described as homeless. There are today about 5,000 people without a place of residence, and many of them are defined as uninhabited. Those who today fall outside often have complex and complex problems. The left has confidence that some of this problem can be addressed by a third sector. The left will therefore strengthen transfers to non-governmental organisations that have the ability to operate a low-threshold service and who know how to provide help. The left wants to help get the homeless away from the street and give them a worthy offer. This is a group of people who have little to do with public support and assistance, and therefore it is important that assistance comes in as unbureaucratic a way as possible. The Left therefore proposes to increase the allocation of 15 million to non-governmental organisations in its alternative budget. to strengthen the measures for the homeless. Then I want to give you the feeling that the Left will support proposal No. 8 from the Progress Party and the Right. In case of incubation, care has been taken during treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e631	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e634	The representative of Skelstad spent some time in his post on the Left's proposal for so-called "citizen pay", a form of minimum income. The next year’s budget proposes a probationary system for long-term beneficiaries of social assistance with a salary of about 2 G, i.e. NOK 125 000. The government, on the other hand, has proposed a new qualification subsidy, also of 2 G, but as a broader system for people with low levels of employment — not necessarily only for beneficiaries of social assistance. So my question to Skelstad is, why will the Left now limit its old proposal on the pay of citizens to just the recipients of social assistance? And question No. 2: Will the Left support the 2G qualifying aid proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e643	We're probably a long way from agreeing with what's in the qualification programme, which I've also said. I believe that this is a good measure. At the same time, we believe that in many ways the pay for citizens is more accurate. In addition, from what we've seen so far from the qualification programme, we think you're choosing to follow the line well. We see that many people will not have the opportunity to get to work, and there are some who will fall outside. That's why we want to define it further than what the Government is offering. We have, however, given credit for what is being presented, because it is not far from our principle, in which the representative Myrli has a reasonable right. But we want to get a trial plan to see how it is possible to do targeted action against those who are the worst.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e650	The left writes in its comments that there is a need for more funding for both medical and occupational rehabilitation. This supports the Progress Party, which also wants to increase its commitment to rehabilitation. At the same time, the Progress Party believes that by increasing the investment in rehabilitation, payments of rehabilitation money will also decrease. This entry, on the other hand, has increased by 55 million. kr. I want to hear what the Left really thinks about rehabilitation?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e657	Rehabilitation is a complex problem. In many ways, we also saw this in the question of the sick pay scheme in the autumn — especially in the case of long-term recipients, who often have musculoskeletal disorders. The left is also involved in supporting here, but at the same time we see that in order to have a good rehabilitation, we have to think broadly. In our alternative budget, we point to several measures that allow us to achieve a dignity for those who become long-term unemployed. Not least private institutions are important here, because we believe that we need to have a supplement – and in many ways we agree with the Progress Party and the rest of the opposition – to the public in order to achieve the rehabilitation that is desirable. We're a little bit on the way, but it's a long way to go. It also showed the settlement of the harvest in relation to the sick pay we have been through.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e664	The fact that the representative Skelstad in his speech struck a blow to pay for the citizen did not exactly turn down like a bomb, but I do – without starting the treatment of the welfare message and the theme welfare contracts – already warn against trying to produce welfare contracts as a step on the road towards citizens' pay. But we'll probably get back to that. The representative is very concerned about this with the homeless as a group that needs an offer at a lower level. We know that Norway has a municipal structure that is characterized by many small municipalities. The representative of Skjelstad also comes from a relatively pig-grown state, namely Nord-Trøndelag. How does the representative of Skjelstad see that this low-threshold offer should be handled in very concrete terms in District Norway, with a municipal structure characterised by so many small municipalities? How is this to be handled?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e677	This is a challenge for us who come from the piggy areas. We know that many of the homeless who are in the big cities come from the districts – actually up to 50–60 pst. in the Oslo area. What is clearly a challenge here is among other things. that there will be less possibility of using the voluntary device in the districts – into the major urban areas. Of course, in some places it will be possible, but here the municipalities have to have a much more offensive attitude. There's no doubt about it per year. Today, many people are being transported from the outskirts to the big cities, so this requires a much more offensive effort locally in the municipalities, at a small municipality level. This shows in many ways that things have to be connected – there has to be a connection between districts and urban areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e684	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e687	It has been an interesting debate so far, and I am listening intensely to both praise and criticism. I feel the need to try to lift my eyes a little. There is a red-green thread in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, not just in the budget; in everything we do, we try to follow a red-green thread. This can be summarised in the following simple statements: The aim is more at work, less at benefit. Why is that important? Well, of course, because work is a human right, work is fundamental to the individual. It's important that society doesn't just have the perspective on the need for people to be at work. It's through work we get economic autonomy, it's often through work we get a social network, it's through work we get an economic ability to participate in leisure activities, cultural services, etc. It's through work that we form the basis for our children to participate in the same way. But of course it's also so that more people at work, less on social benefits, are so important right now because we see that the labour market situation is as it is. Last week I had the pleasure of visiting Veritas, outside Oslo. There they could tell me that their challenge is to recruit 1,300 new employees in 2007, 2008 and 2009, i.e. over three years, 3,900 new employees. The challenge is not that they lack jobs – they have a lot of jobs, but they are deeply concerned about whether they will be able to reach people so that they can take on their assignments. Here I use one company as a picture to characterise a situation where more and more companies now report that labour shortages are the main challenge. We are now in a situation where we have more vacancies than we have registered, ordinary full-time jobs. It is important for us to bear in mind that if we do not now manage to meet this challenge, we will find ourselves in a situation where economic development, value creation, what forms the basis for our common well-being, will be limited above all, not because of lack of jobs, but because of lack of workers, lack of competence. Therefore, the AID is the red-green thread to focus strongly on the labour market. We're working on two main strategies. One is increased labour immigration – I am not going to get into that right now – and the other is thus more at work, less on social benefits. There I have in many ways the same starting point that I heard the representative Engeset had in his post, the fact that today, Friday 8 December, it is of a workforce in Norway of 2.4 million between 18 and 67 years of age about 700,000 who live on social benefits and are not at work. Many of them are permanently illiterate – they will be allowed to live off their social benefits – but obviously many of them both want, can, should and will work. We need to be better able to get them to work – unless we want to undermine the welfare state as a whole because the development of business will be limited, the development of businesses will be limited, value creation will be limited, and therefore we will not be able to afford to pay the benefits that people live on. So what does the Government do to meet that challenge? Well, we work short-term and long-term. First a few words about the long-term grips. The pension reform is, of course, about creating a more sustainable pension system that we can afford to pay for by 2050, but the government's approach to making the pension system sustainable is, of course, adding up to a future system that stimulates people to work. Getting people to work longer leads to increased value creation, which allows us to afford to pay for a rusty pension scheme within a larger cake. The second is that we've provided a senior message where we make the seniors visible as resources. The third heavy effort is, of course, the NAV reform – a huge reorganization of welfare management where the user is in focus, and we are now pushing everything we can to make it happen. The fourth is the paper on work, welfare and inclusion, where we look not only at the organisation of welfare management but also at the content of welfare management. We're not going to give in to that. Next year, we will focus heavily on anti-discrimination policies to increase the number of people with disabilities at work. We're going to go through the whole disability pension scheme. We're starting the qualification programmes as early as next year. This also characterises our budget for 2007. Once again, with regard to the NAV reform, there is a full focus on establishment. We want to set up 110 NAV offices in 2007, so that by the end of 2007, we have 130 offices in place. There are already large appropriations to implement the pension reform as of 1 January 2010. Already in the next year’s budget, ICT investments account for more than half a billion dollars in pension reform. Action plan to combat poverty, focus on work, focus on action areas – we set up in the Action Plan to combat poverty already for 2007 the first allocations to launch the qualification programmes. So we're going to be very quick to get the qualification programmes started. The first thing we did was we put this in the budget. So we put forward the big message, and soon we'll present the law. And we're going to start with the qualification programmes in the autumn of 2007. Furthermore, we see that unemployment falls and that the number of people with disabilities is reduced. That is what we are meeting with a policy where, in relation to the second half of this year, we are increasing the number of regular job vacancies. And we're increasing the number of places for the disabled. I hear that more people are concerned about reducing the allocation of job-impaired action areas, but the important thing is that the number of intervention sites is increasing. It is not an objective to spend as much money as possible in action areas. The objective must, of course, be to give the best possible places for action. In fact, we have fewer people with disabilities now than under the previous government, and that is what we are meeting by increasing the number of places of action for people with disabilities. In order to meet the challenges of those at risk of falling out of work — or have fallen permanently — we are attempting a new, sustainable wage subsidy. Many people have argued that with regard to several measures — both in the short and long term — I have now gone through, there is no dramatic difference between what the current government parties mean and what the previous government parties meant. Both the pension reform and the NAV reform have been a sort of inter-government act. It's positive. The situation is as serious as I have described it, and if we do not succeed in getting more people to work and less on social benefits, it is not a matter of whether this goes wrong, but when it goes wrong. If the seriousness of the situation is something that we can agree on, it must be a great advantage that the national assembly of the country should also oversee and agree on the heavy grips, the major reforms, which we must carry out in order to meet this challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e714	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e717	In ‘LO-Current’ paragraph 18 for this year we could, among other things, read that the Council of State states that ‘700000 persons of working age receive assistance for living from the public’. And the Council of State goes on to say: «Many of them cannot and shall not work. These shall provide a decent income to society.’;» Then I have a specific question to the Council of State: When does he intend to introduce ‘a decent income’ for those who cannot and will not work?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e729	As I was in my post, we are now reviewing the whole public welfare system, from a to a. I think the representative heard me say – at least I meant to say – that when we are doing the pension reform, there is one important element in it that we have not yet addressed, namely the future disability pension system. The previous government reduced a public sample that will deliver its position to me in the middle of March next year. It shall form the basis for the future disability pension scheme with which the Government will come to the Storting during this ageing period. We're going to look at the whole picture of those who are going to be out of work and what these plans are going to look like in the future, both in terms of the pension system and other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e736	It is not so easy to put your finger on any of the things the council said in its post, because I thought it sounded very good. I would rather be allowed to assume something he did not say, but as he said earlier. There's something that says that a politician's greatest enemy is his own previous statements. Most people have believed and understood that what the red-greens have actually promised is that poverty in Norway should be combated or eliminated during this ageing period. That's why I staggered a little last time I met the Council of State for a line exchange. It was during the financial debate. Then his ambition was no longer greater than that it would be less poor in Norway when the ageing period was over. My question is: what will the Council of State do to ensure that the press, and opinion in general, get a proper picture of his ambitions and goals in this area right now – except that social clients have to ‘get up in the morning’?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e745	If there's anyone who hasn't realized that I've been very clear on this point all along, I think it's just got to be the representative Engeset. When it is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration that the Government's objective is to eliminate poverty, it must not be understood that we believe that that day the period of the Soria Moria Declaration has ended – that is, at the end of 2009 – there will be no poverty in Norway. The government is absolutely convinced that having such a strong ambition will lead us to have fewer poor people at that time than we would have without such ambition. I want to ask back: does the representative Engeset not agree that it must be an ambition for Norway to abolish poverty? It just had to be missing that it wasn't our ambition. And then we have to work systematically every day to achieve that goal. It's very demanding to get there completely, but we have to get as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e754	Of course. The Rules of Procedure will probably deprive me of the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e761	That's why I asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e766	The President will point out that it is a little difficult for the Replicant to answer the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e770	The Christian People's Party agrees with the Government that work is the most important way out of poverty, and we want constructive cooperation to achieve it. However, we must recognise that among the long-term recipients of social assistance, there are more people who will not be able to get to work. The proposed welfare contract scheme will cover those with the greatest potential for work and, as we understand it, will not cover all those who have had social assistance as their main source of income over a long period of time. What action will the Council of State take to prevent a stratification in the social welfare group, and what action will he take for those who are most difficult to get into work?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e777	Now we're going to create the legal basis for the qualification program. In the proposition we make to Stortinget in the spring, we will discuss further input criteria, thresholds, etc. for the qualification programme. My starting point is that it's going to be easy to get in, it's going to be a low threshold to get into the qualification programme. When we're facing social welfare recipients that it's not possible to imagine will ever get to work, then we have to find that they're actually disabled. I believe that some of the important things about getting the qualification programme up and getting the NAV offices in place are that we can get to know who we are working for as a goal, and who should have a permanent disability benefit. Because if you can't work, you don't have a job, you're out of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e784	I have received various feedback from several places in the country that are mainly concerned with the fact that the reorganisation of NAV does not go without problems – everything from the financial department in Leikanger to Steinkjer. But that's not what my question is about. My concern is that they might then focus a lot on what's happening internally, and not on what's happening externally. I saw an article in Bergen's Official Journal, which clearly shows some of the challenges. There, Professor Lødemel points out that many who receive social assistance have more health problems than the rest of the population, and are referred to social assistance in many ways for many years. Governments refer to the qualification programme. But these people I'm afraid falls between two chairs. In addition, if you have internal concerns about reorganization, they fall at least between two chairs. Does the Council of State have a particular focus on the general health of social welfare beneficiaries than the rest of the population?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e793	This is at the heart of the NAV reform, at the heart of the idea behind the message of work, well-being and inclusion – that we need to clarify either the way back to work more quickly or the way into a permanent disability. Therefore, one of the key steps in the communication on work, well-being and inclusion is an improved, reinforced and heavier commitment to a workability clearance as early as possible – either as an entry gate to a response tailored to the user’s needs, or out of the NAV office and into a durable income hedge. The problem is that we have many social welfare recipients, as Lødemel has revealed in many studies, which for health reasons have not been able to work. With the NAV organisation, we will get them into a system that is just about to meet the challenges Lødemel has revealed in several of its studies.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e800	The general excavation aid was removed from 1 January 2003. The progress party got a lot of criticism for that, and we still regret that today. We also regret that we did not change that when we negotiated with the then government parties. The current Council of State, which was then Vice-Chairman of the Social Committee, stated that it was heartbroken what happened at the time, and that something like this could never have been part of the Workers' Party. We also thought it was sad, and because we disagreed very much with what happened, we actually proposed to reintroduce the general gravitational assistance. We have also made proposals in connection with this budget for a review. My question is: if the Government believes that this issue is still as important as he thought when he was in opposition, why have not the Government parties supported the proposals of the Progress Party, and why has the Government not reintroduced this scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e809	What the representative Eriksson does with history writing is a continuous error. But it's a fascinating exercise for the Progress Party because they were responsible for something for once. They could not just run around in the political landscape and grant money without taking responsibility for anything. In fact, when this was adopted in the autumn of 2002, the Progress Party was placed here in the Grand Duchy with the government's destiny in its hands. They were the budgetary partner – were those who could really decide, had responsibility, had power, had influence. The only reason the burial aid was abolished as a universal system and replaced by a need - tested system was because the Progress Party voted for it! When they negotiated with the government parties, everything was different from what was important. That was because the representatives of the Progress Party sat there and voted for the government to have a majority in favour of the change. So now you have to take responsibility for the consequences of your own policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e816	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e819	The Labour Party and the Government have been talking about the poor since the elections. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the new government parties will fight poverty. In eight points, they outline the measures to be taken, including: increasing social assistance rates and reviewing the relationship between different social security and social benefits in order to ensure a good and overall level of social benefits. However, the word ‘minimum pension’ is not mentioned once. Unfortunately, 246,000 minimum pensioners live below the poverty line of the OECD. What is the government doing for this group poor? Yes, in the social security scheme in May of this year, the income of a lone minimum pensioner with a share of NOK 3 936 is raised. So the minimum pensioner gets NOK 328 more per year. month, or – in other words – NOK 10.78 more per month. day(s) But what is the government doing with the other hand? Well, you increase the equation value of the dwelling, which means that they get increased tax pressure. New rules are being introduced to allow municipalities to introduce property taxes everywhere, which also affects many minimum pensioners, by increasing taxation. Especially in the municipalities governed by the red-greens, this is introduced. Furthermore, you increase the food tax, which means that those who have the least already have to pay more for the food they buy. Furthermore, the proportion of healthcare provided by a group that is already unable to afford to go to the pharmacy and extract its medicine is increasing. What kind of poverty reduction is this? We know that many minimum pensioners today have poor finances and are struggling heavily. We know that many of them are horrifying about the festival we're going to go into, the festival we're all looking forward to, the festival when we're all going to take care of our closest, when we're all going to give them we're happy about, an extra gift. But this group of people is horrifying. Why are they freaking out? Yes, because they cannot afford to buy hot food every day. They can't afford to buy Christmas gifts to their neighbors, to their children and their grandchildren. Many minimum pensioners have such a daily life. What kind of poverty reduction is this? In the last growing-up period, government councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, the time of a staggering representative, was a diligent spokesperson in claiming that pension arrangements were too poor and that the basic amount was too low. If this were meant to be the case, why did the Labour Party vote each time against the proposals of the Progress Party, which would have made concrete improvements? Then why doesn't he do anything about it, when he's now in power? With respect to reporting, it reminds me a little bit of the song "Clown in the Manoeuvring" by D.D.E., which comes from the Council of State's own hometown. There are many beautiful words, but little action is coming in the fight against poverty for this group. It seems to me that the truth is that the Workers' Party has driven a systematic underregulation of pensions and pensioners' income. This seems to continue in collaboration with the Center Party and SV. One would think that the government's goal was to make the minimum pensioners poorer in the shortest possible time. We all remember in the autumn of 1998, when the Progress Party was able to get through to increase the minimum pension by NOK 1000. We also remember what he was at the time prime minister, and who is now a magnificent representative, said that he thought the proposal of the Progress Party was 'feeling'. It says a little bit about the party's attitudes to improving the conditions of the minimum pensioners. I allow myself to stress that the Advance Party is the party that actually proposes to increase the minimum pension by NOK 13 000. Unfortunately, we are alone in Stortinget about this – unfortunately we are alone. It's true, as Christoffersen said in his statement, that the Progress Party is miles away from the rest of the other parties in the Stortinget. Yes, the Progress Party is miles ahead of the other parties in combating poverty among the elderly in this country. I hope the other parties come quickly after us. We will not forget the efforts this group has made, and we will continue to fight for them. It is so sad that we are unfortunately alone in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e838	Norway's going down. Value creation is increasing, real wage growth is good, and unemployment is falling. This year's Christmas trade will certainly set a record once again, and in these days we are treating a state budget with more money for good purposes than ever. Most people are fine. When it comes to the history of the development of Norway in the 20th century, it is certain that the majority of the population went from poverty to prosperity – the majority, not everyone, unfortunately. If you have a job, you have a good health and a good place to stay, you have a good time in Norway – work, health, housing. Our job is, therefore, to ensure that even more people can participate in the increase in prosperity of the majority. It is simply not acceptable that so many fall outside as today. We have too many working-age people who sit on the side bar. We have to do something about this, and we can if we want to. The government and the majority of the population have presented a set of tools and measures to get more of those on the sidelines to get on the road – the new organisation of the labour and welfare movement, the measures presented in the Single European Act on work, welfare and inclusion, the measures presented in the Action Plan on Poverty and the proposals for a new model for retirement and retirement of old-age pensions in the backbone of the population. I mentioned the development of the Norwegian welfare community. One of the results of people feeling better is that we live longer. That's good, but it's expensive, and especially if we keep going out of work as early as now. One does not have to have studied the economy for one hour to realize that it can be challenging to fund future pensions when there are more and more older people living longer, and we continue to get out of work as early as now. There's no big problem this year, not until next year, not in five years, but probably somewhere where it might be problematic. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that only the cost of the retirement pension in the population's population from 2006 to 2007 is increasing by over 5 billion kroner from 88 to 93 billion kroner – as far as I know, the largest budget chapter in the entire state budget – an increase of more than 5 billion DKK in one year. I will not propose cutting on that chapter. No one here in this room will. That's not what this is about. But this sharp increase cannot continue forever. That's why we have to put in place a new age pension model in the back of the population. It simply has to pay off more to work. Work is the basis for all well-being and, in particular, for retirement. I would like to take the opportunity to give tribute to the three former government parties for the way they have accepted the Government's proposal for a new age pension model in popular terms. I look forward to getting down to the new year and negotiating a new, broad pension settlement, as the Stortinget did last year. Finally, let me link some comments to the proposal of the Advance Party for an increase in the minimum pension. Let's remind each other that the minimum pension in recent years has increased more than other pensions and more than wage developments in society. Nevertheless, living on a minimum pension is not fat. But I think we should be so sober about a topic like this, that we don't present it as if the minimum pension is equal to poverty. I understand, after hearing the article from Eriksson, that there is a need for a review of history. Firstly, the increase in G, the basic amount of the population's fear, is not the same as the increase in the minimum pension, because the minimum pension has a special supplement as well. In addition, there was no discussion of the thousands of pensioners in the autumn of 1998, as Eriksson said. As far as I recall, this was the big discussion in the spring of 1997. I want to say that if we're going to do something about the situation of the minimum pensioners, the most important thing is to make sure that there are fewer minimum pensioners, and to liquidate the minimum pension trap – and not do as the Advance Party and introduce a completely flat pension to all, a new minimum pension to all.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e857	The Government Parties have written in their general notes that they wish: «a general policy change to create less economic differences and to improve economic benefits for people living on so low incomes today that it has to be described as poverty». This meant the government parties last year, too. This year, last year, the concrete proposals needed to achieve this are missing. I took a look at my post last year and found out quickly that I could have strictly taken the same thing this year as last year. Those who have the least will not get any more, but on the contrary less because of increased taxes and taxes. The fight against poverty must be won through work for all. But not everyone can work. Age pensioners, highly disabled people, pain patients, drug users and mentally ill people do not seem to be able to get into work. At the same time, up-to-date figures from NAV show that unemployment among the disabled has fallen by only 4 pst., compared with 23 pst. decrease among ordinary job seekers. For many people it's a very long way to go before you can get to work. For others, the road is too long. In the context of the new IA agreement, the parties have been committed to getting on the road at an earlier stage and to moving the focus from how sick you are to how healthy you are. I want the same way of thinking with those who are struggling to get a job, or are struggling to keep a job. Focus has to be shifted from what you can't, to what you can actually. The organisation of work and disability benefits as wage subsidies are important instruments in this context. But then the arrangements have to be made known. When I first deal with this with tools, I'll take a few of these. Contributions to organised cars are very important for disabled people. Public transport is not organised and its own adapted car or TT card is the only option they have to get out. However, the legislation today is only related to the age of the car. A car must be kept for 11 years before you can get a new one, no matter how far the car has gone, and no matter how tired it is. More and more of the disabled car owners despair over worn-out cars that need considerable repairs to keep them enjoying themselves. The Progress Party therefore promoted at the beginning of the budget. S No I for 2006-2007 a proposal to amend the current system. The second thing I want to say a few words about is the service dogs. According to an article in the Norwegian Handicap Federation, the Council of State was very impressed by a demonstration he received from them. Service dogs do not involve a high cost to society, but on the contrary, large savings in the long term. These dogs give users the opportunity to take care of themselves in their everyday lives. The areas of use are almost inexhaustible. Persons with a significant need for assistance today can be given the opportunity to live in owner-occupied dwellings, with reduced need for assistance. The service dogs replace a lot of human help and provide the disabled with increased privacy and freedom. I must admit that I was disappointed that the Council of State has not found this offer interesting enough to bet on, especially after reading the notice in the Norwegian Handicap Association's Official Journal. The Progress Party, this year as last year, has wanted to ensure a continued offer while at the same time wanting to equate the system with guide dogs for blind and feeble minds. Equalising people with disabilities with others in society is a cross-political desire and goal. At the same time, it is a cross-political desire and objective that more people with disabilities should be able to work. If we are to achieve this, it is absolutely essential that the available instruments and offers are put into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e882	Politics is about prioritizing. It is about choosing to invest in the areas that you think are the most important to achieve the goals you have set. For the Workers' Party, ensuring equal opportunities for all and having a fair society is an overall goal. We believe it is important to ensure that everyone can have a job to do. We want a strong public sector that provides security for individuals. That is why I am pleased that the Government of the State budget is adding up to a policy to get more people to work, and that many of those who are passive social welfare recipients today are opening up the doors to work. We are increasing the number of action sites, and implementation of the NAV reform is underway. In this year's budget, we set out to launch an action outlined in the Single European Act on work, well-being and inclusion, which is what is called the Qualification Programme, which will help many people who are currently receiving social assistance into a more meaningful everyday life. Saying that we want to fight poverty in Norway is an ambitious goal. So we're adding up to more distribution. We are betting on the community, and we have a comprehensive action plan against poverty. We want a society where we share wealth and where those who have the least are going to get more. Politics, as I said, is about choosing. Most of the parts here in the hall relate to it. But we have one party that lives in a world other than the competing parties: the Progress Party. They talk about that we have to take people seriously, and that we have to do more for people most. Most of the parties agree on this, but with their massive use of oil money, the Progress Party is lifting the most important rule of politics, that is, prioritizing. They can say yes to everything that the voters like, and no to everything that they don't like. They don't relate to the same reality as the rest of us. They have billions of dollars more than us. They ignore the truth that the Norwegian economy will not tolerate the massive use of money, and they ignore the fact that the bill will be sent to ordinary people through interest rate increases and to the industry by struggling with a higher price. Having said that, we see that even though they do not give priority to the same thing as the rest of us, there is a clear line in the policies of the Progress Party and in their alternative state budget, and that is interesting reading. And of course, something is quite obvious. They go for lower taxes and taxes. The second thing we see is that they have made proposals all year round on the Storting, which they seem to be very concerned about, but when it comes to the budget, it's not necessarily included, for example. supplementary pension for young people abroad, which we will discuss later today, extending the leave arrangements to 42 weeks and reducing the pay obligation for employers to five days. Instead, they push forward more proposals to the Government and expect the Government to find money in the revised national budget, such as: the tombstone, which was taken up here in the past. You haven't found any money. You just promote oral proposals, and I don't think that's particularly responsible, to say something diplomatic. The Progress Party writes that the Government does not do enough for the poor, and it has been said from this pulpit here today. But what does the Progress Party itself do? They cut out the education aid for lonely caregivers, as we often know, it's economical. They cut into social services and measures for the disadvantaged. They say that society needs to do more for those who don't have it easy, while cutting hard compared to those who are going to do the job, calling it efficiency measures, without saying what it should be, and without describing the consequences of their cuts. I'm happy to belong to the majority on the Stortinget, who pursue policies with real money, and who prioritise. For this government, the profile is clear: we want more for the community. We want more to distribute. We want to work for everyone who wants to work to have the opportunity, and we want to fight poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e900	I am pleased that in this setting there is a great deal of emphasis on getting more people to work, despite the fact that there is very low and declining unemployment in the country. Work is very important – yes, it is vital for people to have good and meaningful lives. We see in the question of poverty that the great distinction goes between the people who are at work and those who are not at work. Working for everyone therefore still has to be the number one job. Now I'm paid to boast of the Government, but rarely have we seen a council that adds to those degrees tools to lift people out of poverty, and give more people the opportunity to succeed in their lives. It's good to see, and this is just the beginning. It also illustrates the difference between the right-hand side and the left-hand side of Norwegian policy. Where the previous government spoke the most about poverty, this government is already well in the process of helping the people involved. We're doing it through already well-known social-democratic instruments. We have shown in the past that we can lift people – yes, a whole class – out of poverty. I'm glad there's a special focus on the immigrant population in the government's work in this field. The sustainability of integration and welfare will be a good public school, social housing policy and work for all. If we agree that work is one of the most important tools for integration, we do not tolerate a single person with a migrant background becoming unemployed. If many of those now under education do not get a job when they are finished studying, it will be very unfortunate for the individual, for the integration and for young people who come after them, and who have these young people as their role models. We see that people with immigrant backgrounds face more barriers. The first is that too few get a job at all. I allow myself to take a rather comical story about an employer who put a lot of applications in a job vacancy, whereupon he takes out half of the applications and throws them straight into the trash. Then he who sits next to him asked why in all the world he did it. Then the employer said that those who were thrown had a terrible unhappiness, and that was something he at least did not want in his company, there were people with unhappiness. Immigrants must not be dependent on having a good time to get a job. The other barrier is what kind of work immigrants get, if they get a job first. Too many people get a job they're overqualified for. It's depressing and makes them feel that they don't have the necessary sea respect by feeling that society needs the skills they possess. It is important to point out that many groups participate in working life in the same way as the rest of the population. It varies with education, background of origin and Norwegian knowledge. We also see that living time is an important variable. It is also important that better counselling is done. Some do not want their child to become a craftsman or take a real job, as this is considered by some to be low status in their country of origin. From the New Chance qualification programme, we see that the main instruments of the introduction scheme work, and that women in particular benefit from the scheme. Occupational participation for women is a particular challenge. It is important to find good tools to change the picture that we see today. As a man who is concerned with women's rights, I also allow myself to encourage my brothers among the immigrant population to take responsibility for more women getting into work. The impression that the party of progress is trying to create that immigrants are passive, that they don't want to be integrated and prefer to just sit and raise social security is wrong. Many workers and competent immigrants are in line at work offices each day in the hope of getting a job. The cut-off of the party in the budget in the foreign field, with cutbacks in reception, in municipal migration measures and Norwegian training, will lead to more people staying illegally in the kingdom, more people going on social assistance, and there is an abused chance of benefiting from immigration. This will lead to a strain on the social budget, which I cannot see that the Progress Party has taken into account in its proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e921	The speakers who have the floor hereafter shall have a speaking time of three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e924	Since last year’s budget debate, unemployment has been reduced by nearly a third. This is very good for all those who have gone from the job queue to work. Thus, the comment made by the Progress Party in the last year's budget, which said that unemployment would be aggravated by the measures put forward in Soria Moria, was put to shame. Now, however, it is not that everything is joyful and vulture. Nearly one quarter of the unemployed are long-term unemployed, and the underemployment, i.e. part-time workers who want more job breaks, is increasing. In parts of the world of work, the demand for labour is higher than the supply, and we know that the labour shortage of enterprises is considered to be the biggest challenge if demand increases. In this situation, the Government wants to increase the level of regular action places by 800 in the second half of 2006 to 11,800 places – this in a situation where we have a strong reduction in unemployment. It will be an important signal in terms of this government's willingness to combat unemployment. We continue the reversal of the unsocial cut of the Bondevik government to the unemployed, by cutting the number of waiting days before you get a daily allowance, from five to four. The goal is to come down in three days, as it was before the Bondevik government put in its unsocial cuts. It's no surprise that the Right and Left propose to maintain five waiting days. Nor is it surprising that the old government parties will continue to tighten up the right of employees to receive benefits from the wage guarantee fund once the employer has gone bankrupt. However, it is reassuring to see the zeal of these batches weakening the safety net of ordinary workers. The fight against social dumping is an important issue. The government is following its action plan against social dumping through legislative changes, strengthening control and supervision. The size of immigrants from the new EEA countries is high, particularly in the construction sector. We welcome this labour immigration. This is labour that we need. When we're against social dumping, that doesn't mean we're opponents of labour immigration. This means that we want the workers who come here to have proper working conditions and decent pay compared to their Norwegian colleagues. In our view, the transitional rules for citizens from the new EEA countries, together with legislation and supervision covering the immigration of services, are the way to prevent social dumping. Next Friday, we will be considering proposals for transitional rules from new EEA countries. In the spring we will have new proposals to strengthen the legislation, and in the budget we are discussing today, we will strengthen the appropriations for the Labour Inspectorate as well as for the Petroleum Control. Norway is among the countries that have received most workers from Eastern European countries, and we have seen ugly examples of their cynical and brutal exploitation. With strong legislation, active supervision and cooperation with the trade union movement and other social partners, we intend to fight social dumping, and we are on our way.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e937	The left would stress that participation in the labour market is one of the most important measures for individual citizens to be able to secure themselves and their families against poverty and social exclusion. The left is therefore satisfied that the Government has different measures to get more people back to work and to facilitate working life in such a way that as many as possible can participate. The welfare system of the future will depend on whether society does the big job. But there's a limit to what you can achieve with the line of work. Especially for women in care professionals, there are too many who end up on disability after many years of heavy lifting, and then it is usually too late. Better organisation of jobs for these professions will be essential in order to reduce sick leave. The left is dedicated to freedom and justice for all people to create a life of independence. In view of this, the Left wishes to ensure that self-employed persons are granted equal rights to maternity and maternity benefits as other workers do. A number of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs start out in small businesses. It is therefore necessary to make this group equal for the purposes of social security rights for maternity and maternity benefits. Equality in these rights will also facilitate more women's risk and ability to start their own jobs for themselves and others. The coverage of self-employed social security rights is currently 65 pst. in case of pregnancy, childbirth and care for young children. In order to receive full compensation during the leave period today, self-employed persons must take out their own insurance – insurances that are relatively expensive and that result in a burden that weakens the recruitment of such a business. The left considers that today’s maternity-related social security schemes for this group do not facilitate a combination of childcare and occupational activities. Furthermore, the left refers to the fact that farmers and fishermen have, through different agreements, been granted welfare schemes which grant these groups extended maternity and maternity rights. The main reason for these special agreements is to ensure recruitment to these industries. Another reason is that it is in the industry's interest to ensure the recruitment of women. The left sees it as important to strengthen recruitment also in other industries, not just in the primary industry. The left therefore proposes the introduction of a maternity and maternity benefit scheme for all self-employed workers, in line with workers. Finally, once again, it is reassuring to hear the representative Henriksen pointing to the flexibility of the LO and not to the flexibility of a labour market. I am a little surprised that this is repeated every time we have a pressed labour market, which also the Right and Left refer to in their comments. Then I find it difficult to understand the reasoning of the representative Henriksen here.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e955	What made me take the floor again was really the answer to the line I had to the council. If you're going to use the Council of State's own rhetoric in the exchange of lines, where he said that at that time the Party of Advancement had power, you can start an interesting debate. The party of progress was not in government. The Progress Party negotiated a budget in which we were able to leverage more to health, more to care for the elderly and more to transport. We had a further tightening of the shortening of coordination between married and cohabiting pensioners. If we are to follow the Council of State's own rhetoric until 2004 – if I don't remember wrong – it was the Workers' Party that negotiated with the same government, and that must mean that it was the Workers' Party that had the power and decided what the budgetary agreement should be like. So the council says in the reply that in these negotiations everything was more important to us than the gravitational aid. It must mean that for the party of the Council of State – which itself was set and negotiated in 2004 – everything else was more important than the tomb aid, which was said to be so important the year before. However, we acknowledged that we were not satisfied, that we were disappointed that this had happened. That is why we also proposed to reintroduce this benefit. We would have had a majority in the Storting last year if the government parties had supported us. Those who are in power today, as far as I am aware, are really the Council of State and the government parties. Not enough that they sit with power, but they make it to those degrees because they have a majority government, which could have accomplished it both for the current year and for the next year. But here it is once again a paralysis of action. The situation is – and I have received a number of enquiries, among others. from priests in Oslo – that the costs of a minimum burial around the country range from NOK 10 000 to over NOK 30 000. That is why the Progress Party is now proposing a total review of the scheme, so that everyone can be secured a worthy funeral. Unfortunately, the other parties also voted against it in the Storting during the financial debate. It's sad. There is a great difference between the rhetoric and action of the government parties, and I would have liked them to have been more good at acting than at operating with easily purchased rhetoric.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e968	After this article, one can really wonder how the Progress Party can go through this debate without doing anything about the gravitational support, when at the same time they get so solid room for it through cuts, for example. up to NOK 1 billion in the case of labour market measures. It had to be possible to get to Stortinget with a proposal that represented something other than asking the government to take responsibility for an investigation of something. But that's it! What I wanted to comment on was a statement that the representative Engeset started with, where he received support from the Progress Party, that the Government represented some kind of – what was it he called – envy principle. We have a government that wants to bet on the welfare state, and that sees it cost, and that therefore also acknowledges that we have to do something about the tax level of this society. I also note that the debate shows that the Government clearly has a wider majority in the Grand Duchy to do something about the level of taxation and to focus more on welfare policy than the parliamentary basis behind the Government suggests. Here, in fact, the opposition parties separate layers when it comes to being willing to bet on welfare solutions. Then I also want to comment on what is going on in the poverty packages. The representative Engeset says that the Right has a much better poverty package, and it is especially designed to get people to work. Yeah, I suppose so! First, I'm going to try to get more involved in the Right Poverty Package and find out where these measures are so much better. I haven't been able to see them that far. But at least I have recorded that the Right Cuts dramatically in labour market measures, and when you look at the Government's action plan against poverty, there are actually 144 million. where the aim is to strengthen country-wide labour market activity in order to combat poverty. We'll find these again in entry 70 under chapter. 634 of the Government's budget. It's about 550 million. kr, is it well, right cutter 206 million. kr. There won't be much left to poverty measures that can help this category of people get into work, when you cut right where the appropriations for this are set. It is difficult to see that there are realities behind what it is said that a poverty effort must be to bet on the line of work. That's what the government is doing. And that's where the other kittens are. The exception here is actually the Christian People's Party, it's the only party that comes out in plus on labour market measures when you see items 70 and 71 in sum. The other kittens!
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e979	I wanted to take the word after the article of Sverre Myrli, who was in the minimum pension. After all, he repeats what the Workers' Party's representatives always like to say, that the Progress Party we have a flat minimum pension. I mean, something that's flat, can't be at least at one end and the largest at the other end. There's something that's not entirely consistent with the flat and least and largest here. It really surprises me that the Workers' Party is so deeply concerned that those who have had the least throughout their lives should have at least when they get old as well. And why is the Workers' Party so concerned that those who through a long life have had the most must have the most when they grow old? The party of progress is dedicated to giving a good pension to everyone, a pension that gives everyone a good old age: those who don't have much goods and gold, and those who already have a lot of goods and gold. We call this equivalency and solidarity, words The Labour Party in all other contexts likes to adorn itself with.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e988	I actually drew myself on the list of speakers because in my reply to the Council of State I got a question from him. I thought in particular that it was the privilege of the representatives of big business to ask the Council of State questions about the main posts of the Council of State, but okay enough. I wasn't given the opportunity to answer because the regulations forbade me, so let me just confirm, for the sake of order, that yes, the Right has great ambitions in combating poverty, but unlike the Red-Greens, we have never promised to eliminate poverty. At least that's what we realized that the red-green promised in the election campaign and up to and including Soria Moria. Now you've slowed down considerably, and I think that makes sense. Eliminating poverty is terribly demanding, because poverty is a complex and complex problem, for many reasons. I think everyone is wise to have ambitions to reduce poverty. That's probably the only thing that's realistic in the real world. And then the main answer, of course, is that the way out of poverty goes through work. Otherwise, I'll refer you to the Right Poverty Pack. After the introduction to the representative Sundsbø, I have to say that I am both surprised and actually a little stated. That article reveals that, first of all, the representative Sundsbø has not been involved in the Right Alternative State Budget – that may be so, you may not be able to ask for all the red-green representatives, they may have others to get into. But that he hasn't even read what we're actually proposing in the committee setting, where, at the point after point, we have offensive posts that go beyond the government's proposals, I have to say both disappointments and surprises. But okay, enough about it. So to a theme that I think is a little funny in the debate. I felt that the Council of State in its position, its choice of words and its tone were both positive, responsive, inclusive and pleased that there was broad political agreement on the main actions of labour and social policy. I appreciate that, and I think it's important to take care of it. That's why I think it's a little strange that representatives like Karin Andersen and Lise Christoffersen almost fly in the throat of the Right from sentence no. 1 in its articles. I think that's funny. I'm essentially wondering if there's some kind of work distribution in the red-green camp, with such a good guy"bad girl" role distribution. I think it was kind of funny. The poverty package to the Right we are very proud of and very pleased with. What I've been criticising the Government's poverty package is that it's been a little creative bookkeeping. If reducing taxes and taxes is to be called poverty-related measures, then there are very many of the tax reliefs we made in the last period, which will also be poverty-related measures. So rude we haven't been.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e999	I think the post that came now was very clarifying. It has never been and will not be a goal for the Right to eliminate poverty. Actually, we do. For SV it is, and we are going to be on for that morning, dinner and evening. Today, everyone seems to agree on both the fight against poverty and that much more needs to be done to get more people into work. And I think people are concerned about it, but the problem of believing properly in the opposition in these matters is when you go into your budget and see how you've financed this. So I've read the answers that the Ministry of Finance has given to the different parties in terms of how their budgets are calculated. That's when it comes for one day that many of the sums that are operated on as savings, are estimated only the batches have made sail, and are not calculated. And that's when this budget they're now presenting is based both on this government's tax policy, which basically means much greater revenue to the community, and in addition to that as Right, when they put in government, called harry money, which is not proper money, but some estimates you can find on the sea. And then, as I said, there are many things you can afford. Then I must say that I see the Kenneth Svendsen of the Progress Party in reply to me when I challenged him on the child-restraint cut, at all. A cut of 350 million has been entered in the budget of the Progress Party. kr on child protection. The latest surveys show that the number of children with child protection is the lowest on almost all social indicators. These are kids who have a hard time initially. We also know that three out of four of these children end up in social assistance when they're 18 years old and get out of child protection. A lot of them are out of high school. If so, what is it that the Progress Party should offer these children so that they come out of this situation? It is absolutely impossible to understand that this should be a good poverty package for these children, for these are the children who need the most community – and they should at least have. If one looks at another side of the Advance Party budget, we can also see that reductions in the alcohol charge amount to about DKK 1 billion. I must say that I think is an inconvenient package. One chooses to cut off those who need the most community, and as we know, poverty even today comes with the measures we have. And then you think it's more important that the liquor gets cheaper.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1012	It is quite clear that the representative Andersen has read it in the program that she wants to read, and has not read the whole of the program. I recommend that she go up to our secretariat and get our alternative state budget, where the whole thing stands, and where she will get the answers to what she's asking for. Today we are discussing the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. What made me take the floor was Eva Kristin Hansen, who started talking about oil money and said that the Progress Party was living in another world, we did not discuss the same section of the track as the others. We didn't participate in the track half where they were prioritizing. So we're not going to spend this oil money. Now it's like the Workers' Party is also using oil money. But I could imagine getting answers from Eva Kristin Hansen on what's the difference between oil money, aluminum money, hydropower money and money taken through taxes and taxes from business. What's the difference between these? They're finally coming out as a surplus in the state budget. Eva Kristin Hansen says that the Progress Party has resigned from the important political debate, and we are not participating in the priorities. But now we're at the heart of the matter. That's exactly the priorities we're on. Here we have the opportunity to prioritise 246 000 minimum pensioners living below the OECD poverty line, rather than putting money on books in companies in other countries. And then the Workers' Party chooses to put this money into shares in private companies around the world, rather than giving money to those who have been with and built this country from being a poor country to a rich country today. Then I am quite amazed that you can stand on the platform here and say that you are not giving priority. But there is, of course, a way for the Workers' Party to get away from that debate. It's a priority for the Progress Party. That is what we intend to continue to do in the same way – and it is, as I say, through the anti-poverty programme. 246 000 minimum pensioners live below the poverty line of the OECD, and what do the Workers' Party and government parties do with it? Yes, they increase the taxes on wealth, they increase the tax on the benefit of living in owner-occupied dwellings. Now we know that many of these minimum pensioners live in owner-occupied housing, and when they have to pay these taxes, they have to take it out of the minimum pension, which is as low as it is. That's the Progress Party opponent of. Myrli was up here talking about the Progress Party wanting everyone to be the minimum pensioner. For us, it's not important whether it's called minimum pensioners or not. What's important to us is that it's possible to live on the minimum pension. And the minimum pension that the Workers' Party stands for, you can't live on. This can be done with the proposals of the Progress Party for a new minimum pension.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1026	It was actually the original post to Martin Engeset that made me draw, because when the red-greens so clearly through two budgets have prioritised the fight against poverty and reversed tax law, it is neither rhetoric nor envy. Martin Engeset says that the red-green majority is more concerned about taking from the rich than anything else. No, that's not what we are. We stand for a political line and an attitude that we've always stood for, and it's about delivering according to ability and getting as needed. And if you're rich, you can actually afford to contribute more to society and the common fund than if you have little. The left-hand side is most concerned about keeping people back. And that's to the degree error. Should we have followed bourgeois policies throughout the last century and up to today, we would not have stood here today and discussed how to raise a tenth of the population. Then we had stood here and discussed how to raise a much larger proportion of the population. The labour movement has, for as long as it has existed, worked to lift the majority, and has good political results. We're looking at the quality that we have in Norwegian society today. And the citizens also say in their budget remarks that one of the most important quality features of Norwegian society is that we have a highly educated population. And who has provided it? Even I come from a family where my grandparents were employed on the railway and knew what it would be like to have it crowded. And if it hadn't been for the educational policy that the labour movement has been pursuing, I would never have received any education other than what my grandparents and, in part, parents received. It's not about holding back. What is the principle of labour movement is to give people freedom and freedom from, and it's about a fair distribution of social goods. Then it was also said here from the Progress Party that the Labour Party and the other cooperation parties are responsible for a policy in which those who have the least will still have the least. I would like to remind you that the minimum pension itself is an expression of solidarity from society towards those who have nothing, because it is largely people who have not paid anything in return. In the People's Security System, there is also a significant redistribution from those who have the most, to those who have the least. That redistribution will be reinforced in the new reform, and there will be minimum pensioners left. The progress team says they're busy with flat-rate retirement. But flat pension will still mean at least. That would mean that those who can afford it are going to buy an addition to the flat pension that is for everyone. Otherwise, ‘flat’ is also a principle of the Progress Party in tax matters. If we were to fully follow those principles, it would lead to a flat tax of 38 pst. Here in the country, and it would give a significantly higher tax to those who already have the least initially.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1043	Kari Kjønaas Kjos had problems with the terms ‘flat’, ‘minimum’ and ‘largest’. Yes, if the Progress Party had got what they wanted, there wouldn't have been any problem at all, because the Advance Party will have an equal popular pension for everyone. So let's use the term equal if it's easier to understand than flat. Whether you have worked a lot or not, according to the Pension Model of the Progress Party, you have to have the same pension from the public. The rest of us think it's an unfair pension model. The minimum pension in Norway is not fat to live on. It does not provide a basis for a fading life. Therefore, the Storting has also significantly increased the minimum pension in recent years, more than other pensions and more than wage developments. Or more precisely, it's the special supplement of the minimum pension that's been increased. The main principle of the age pension of the population is that everyone has a basic pension, the G of the population, and then you earn an additional pension in relation to what you pay in your working life. If you have little or no supplementary pension, you get a special supplement from the public, so that you get the sum of the minimum pension. The back of the medal – if we are to do as the Advance Party says – is that those who have worked and worn a long life, and who have a small supplementary pension, are taken back by those who only have special supplements. It never says anything about the Progress Party. This concerns the cleaner and the home help who has worked and worn out and worked up a small supplementary pension. They're not interested in the Progress Party. I get that, because the Progress Party doesn't want this system. The Progress Party will not reward those who have worked and worn out in a long working life. The Progress Party will have a flat pension for everyone – or let's say equal pensions, so that the representatives of the Advance Party can also be involved in terminology. The party of progress is not concerned with those who – in order to use the concept of Kenneth Svendsen – have been with and built the country. It is precisely these groups that are affected if the pension model of the Progress Party is to be introduced. The other calls the Progress Party's proposal for a new pension model for a run-up to the supplementary pension of workers. It never mentions the Progress Party. The best thing we can do is to get a new pension system set up so we don't have to discuss these issues. Because with the new pension model proposed by the Government, which I hope will eventually become a major supporter of the Stortinget, the minimum pension traps will be eliminated. So everyone retains the rights they have acquired through their working life, combined with the provision of first-time care and earnings. But it's the Progress Party against it. The Progress Party will not have a new pension scheme. Now I challenge the Progress Party: If we are wrong that the Progress Party will introduce an equal pension to everyone, they have then gone away from what they have done in the past, and then they can use the opportunity now to present their new pension model.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1066	The President will point out that it is unparliamentary to owe his co-representatives to run with him.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1069	It is good that a little temperature has finally arrived in the debate. I understand that my rhetoric around the Advance Party's use of oil money gave the representative Svendsen some high levels of adrenaline. But my point about the Advance Party's use of oil money is that I want to give a strong warning that we can't spend more money than is wise for our society and for the Norwegian economy. I warn against spending money in a way that contributes to increased interest rates for most people, and that affects Norwegian industry. There is a broad consensus here on the Stortinget – with the exception of the Advance Party – on how to use our oil money. That was the point of my post instead. At the same time, I would like to say that I am a little sorry that the Progress Party is going very high and is promoting proposals throughout the year, without taking responsibility for it when it comes to the budget. In the alternative budget of the Progress Party, very many of the proposals they have made during the year are not included. The point in the line I had earlier today to the representative Svendsen, about the thousand-fold that came to the social clients last year, is proof of how the Progress Party is handling the economy in this room. You're going to go 170 million. long after we have done away with the discussions and finished the budget. My point was to point out the irresponsibility in the policy of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1076	The representative Martin Engeset has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1079	I drew myself to correct what someone must have been guilty of, that is, a manifest misunderstanding, or a deliberate misunderstanding. Of course, when it comes to arguing against political opponents, the easiest thing to do is to quote what a representative has said, and then argue against a caricious position. When I went into this with a policy of envy, I said that some of the red-green representatives – I underlined that it was not all about – served by that type of rhetoric. I think the debate here has also confirmed that. To the representative Lise Christoffersen I just want to say that her posts now last confirmed a point I had in my main post, namely that someone is bottled up with a notion that everything that is good is the profit of the Royal Norwegian Labour Party, while everything that is shaky and crooked is the fault of others. I think it's a pretty special story description if you look at it from a historical perspective. But we'll have to do that on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1086	Kenneth Svendsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1089	I should have had more time! It is such that the representative from the Workers' Party says that the Progress Party wants flat tax. I wonder where this representative got it from. At least she can't have read our program completely, so I suggest she does it again. In addition, she has clearly calculated that we will get 38 pst. flat tax when the Party of Advancement comes to power. There's a calculation that doesn't belong anywhere at home, and where it's retrieved from, I don't understand. We can, among other things: look at Ireland, where there are flat taxes, which have led to higher tax revenues, because more business has been acquired. So it's possible to do this with a flat tax, but not with flat tax. Then Myrli came into the home helpers and cleaners, he didn't think they would accept to be obtained by those who have been at home and among others. worked with kids a whole professional life. I think they accept it as long as both parties can live on the minimum pension. The problem with the Workers' Party is that they've put the pension at a level that doesn't make it possible to live on, while we're putting it at a level that makes it possible to live on.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1107	I attended a similar debate on minimum pensions in the autumn of 1996, and this led to a happy outcome. Then the minimum pension was greatly increased by the special supplement, and there was a great improvement in the economic situation of these people. There are quite a few who show little respect for the economics of society they've done, and then it's a little handshake from the government to improve their economics. It is clear that those who have had an active life and have received a pension in addition to the minimum pension will be re-established by increasing the special supplement, as has been said here. In some situations, it may be unfair for those who have had a place in their professional life, with income that has provided the basis for a pension in addition to the minimum pension, to be reinstated by raising the special supplement. It's a fact. However, this cannot be a decisive argument against increasing pensions for the many who are in the minimum pension situation under the current pension scheme or under a future pension scheme. This is something we have to try to cut through, and here we need an increase in'social protection', which an old working party rapporteur in the Gudbrands valley taught me, against a number of people who, for various reasons, have come into a very weak pension situation compared to what most people are in. I just want to make it clear that in the Center Party we stand firm by the attitude we had to these questions when we got, among other things. raised in the minimum pensions by the 1997 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1116	Robert Eriksson has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1120	One minute will be too short to explain and answer everything Myrli took up in his post, but let me begin. When the Stortinget addressed the pension notification and reform in spring 2005, the Progress Party wanted to improve today’s system. It is also clear in the setting in the case that we wanted to improve today's system. The reason we are moving towards the proposed pension reform is precisely because it becomes a solid savings reform. It leads to a weakening of the acquired rights of a very large number. It happens in such a way that everyone will get less in retirement – everyone gets less in retirement. That's what it's all about, and it can be fully documented. I also expect Myrli to be well aware of that when he joined the Pension Commission. One of the main things to do there was just saving x the number of billions of dollars in future pension expenditure.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1129	Lise Christoffersen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1132	It was really to answer the question from Kenneth Svendsen that I asked for the word. Where do I get it from that the Progress Party wants a flat tax system? In its programme, the Progress Party notes that they want a flat tax system. And the number 38 pst. is taken from NOU 1999:7 – if one is to have flat tax and maintain the same income in society, the rate must be 38 pst. I don't have this on my own chest. Otherwise, the Company’s tax arrangements for 2006 were such that, with revenues up to DKK 150000, they would receive DKK 1100 in tax relief, while with revenues from SEK 1 million. NOK and upwards would be taxed at around NOK 60000. That doesn't mean that during that year one had come up with a flat tax system, but it had gone in that direction. And since the Progress Party itself says it in its program, one must believe them in their own word.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1141	Swearing Myrli has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1144	An obvious misunderstanding: I've never said that I'm against increasing the minimum pension. I pointed out the dilemmas we face as the Progress Party never mentions, and I called the back of the medal. The back of the medal by increasing the special supplement in the minimum pension is that those who have a small supplementary pension in the population's security will be reinstated. Then I'll take the country's second largest party in bloody earnest. I was with the Progress Party of the Pension Commission. The progress party had a serious and reworked proposal that meant a flat, or equal, pension to everyone. It's okay. We disagree. I want a pension system that will give people more incentives to work, a long and active working life will give higher payoffs in pensions, I believe, and the Workers' Party. If the Progress Party now believes anything other than what they did in the Pension Commission, it is also quite fine, but then the Progress Party must take the opportunity to outline its new pension system – if they now think otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1151	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 1174]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1167	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President proposes that up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1176	The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party have suggested that young people who move abroad retain their supplementary pension. They have each promoted their Document No. Eight motions for resolutions, document Nos. 8:1 and Document No 8:2, but the Committee has chosen to examine these proposals in the same position, as the proposals address the same issues. In 1993, the rule that a guaranteed supplementary pension for young workers is not paid to persons living abroad who are no longer members of the population was introduced. This happened with broad support in the Grand Duchy, also from the parties that are promoting the proposals today. The consequence of the proposals of the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party is that they go back to the scheme before 1993, as there were no restrictions on the export of this supplementary pension. When the case was dealt with last, one of the main arguments for imposing restrictions was that the guaranteed supplementary pension for persons born without birth or who have become disabled at an early age was imposed on the basis of Norwegian circumstances and given the presence of persons in Norway. Therefore, it was assessed the appropriateness of this and other non-fees-based benefits to be paid abroad for longer periods, such as: when the beneficiary moves abroad for good. Furthermore, it was thought that our system would stand out in relation to other countries, and impose great obligations on the population as compared to international arrangements. It was intended that the scheme should be reserved for persons residing in Norway as a purely social benefit. The Christian People's Party and the Advance Party argue that the arrangement is unfair. Many travel and move more than before, and it's unreasonable to become a minimum pensioner when you move abroad if you're young. It is fully possible to understand that a reduction in performance will be seen as unreasonable and incomprehensible, but the majority at the same time believe that this matter affects so many aspects of principle, not least economic aspects, that a broader assessment of the issue is needed. The majority therefore believe that it would be wise to get an overview of how many are involved, as the Council of State has already asked the Directorate of Labour and Welfare to do. Furthermore, the majority believe that it would be natural to see this matter in the context of the ongoing disability pension investigation of the public body led by Oluf Arntsen. The majority therefore propose that the proposals be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1191	On the basis of equalising disabled people with others in our society, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party have promoted the proposals we are now considering. The suggestions are about doing something, not just talking. Most people work large parts of their lives and work themselves both at home and at retirement. For those who are born or have become disabled at an early age, it is different. They have not moved to get a home, and they have not accumulated a social security benefit they can live on. For this group, a supplement called ‘youngly disabled’ is provided. More and more Norwegians are moving to other countries. Older, chronically ill and disabled people experience a much easier and better life in a warmer climate. These take their retirement and move out. Young disabled people cannot take their pension with them in the same way. They experience being deprived of much of their livelihood. Is that really what we mean when we say that everyone should have the same rights and opportunities? The majority point to the fact that the addition aims to ensure a sober standard of living in Norway and that this supplementary pension is a purely social benefit. A young, heavily disabled Norwegian lady who has moved to Spain for a better life reacted violently to this statement. That the doctor ruined her life during an operation at the age of 15, was now one thing, but that she was reduced to an economic burden that had to have social benefits – an alms, as she called it – made her despair. According to the legislation, if she is in Norway on a period basis, she may retain her addition. If she had had finances for housing in two countries, she would have made it without the supplement. Had she had a part-time job, she could also keep her addition. Well, as a highly disabled person, she's 100 pst. disability and inability to have a part-time job. This curtailment rule cannot be seen as anything but pure discrimination. It is also difficult to understand the need of the Council of State for an economic estimate of the proposal. All young people have received this supplement, and the cost is already in the budget. It is therefore a matter of saving if more young people move out of the country, and savings are actually quite significant. In addition to losing their supplement, they also lose adapted car, auxiliaries, basics and medicines on blue prescription. If you are concerned about the budgetary aspects of this matter, you should strictly adopt the proposal immediately and hope that even more people will take advantage of the possibility of moving to another country. The Progress Party is pleased that the Christian People's Party and the Left agree that this rule deprives a small group of people of the same opportunities as the rest of the population. The Progress Party notes that the government parties in this case, as in most other cases, choose to push the final decision ahead. These points to the fact that a public body has been set up to investigate a new disability pension scheme and that it wishes to await this proposal before deciding, if necessary, whether to allow young people to move to another country without shortening their social security. There are a few young people out there who don't want or have time to wait for this report, and the minority, consisting of the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Advance Party, are therefore promoting a concrete proposal now, as it is in the case. The proposal is concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1219	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1222	It is a rather difficult matter we are dealing with today. Both the rapporteur outlined, and some of the views expressed by the representative Kjenaas Kjos in his statement, show that this is a complex and somewhat difficult matter. I belong to a party that voted against this tightening when it was introduced, with some of the reasons that are also being put forward today. In particular, I believe that when we look at this matter in the future, it is important to look at both the aspects of equality policy, as has been said here, in relation to others, and in relation to others, and, of course, also at important health reasons that can be stressed in order that people might have a better life. We know that some health conditions are affected by e.g. a warmer climate, which can be good for many. It would have been nice to be able to say yes to this matter today, but I am, like my colleagues in the Government, prepared that the matter should be seen in full together with the setting of the Committee on Indemnity Pensions, because there may be many aspects of both the disability or the one that needs to be seen in the context of a proper system, so that we do not continue to patch up the system, now that we have started a larger work in this area. So I think I also want to emphasize what this supplement is about. It might be very negative when you say it's a social benefit. When the supplement arrived, it was related to the cost of living in Norway and not having the opportunity to earn an additional pension that was to be part of the benefit received. That's what this social benefit means. This does not mean that it is an almsity; it simply means a recognition that the level of costs in Norway will be such that for a young disabled person it will be unreasonable and difficult to live on a minimum pension from the age of 20 or 18, until you become a retired person. So that's the rationale, and there's no degradation in it. So I'm going to ask that it not be put into it, because it hasn't been meant, I think, from those who introduced it, and it wasn't in it at all from us either when this rule change was adopted. There may also be some concerns about the entry criterion, that you can get that benefit after a year of residence. That's one of the problems with it. I think we can see that when we see these benefits in context -- what kind of rights and obligations are attached to the different benefits, what you get when you stay here in the country, and what you can get when you move abroad. Because this benefit may not be the only one to consider regarding the possibility of taking the benefits and living in another country. There are health reasons why people move, but there are other reasons why people move. There are a lot of people who like it and move between countries for completely voluntary reasons. Therefore, the social security system also needs to be adapted to it, but in such a way that we do not get unfortunate results that we do not control. I also think that I would like to highlight some of the things that the representative of Kjenaas Kjos was about, namely that this is a performance that people get when they are in this country. So there's not any increase in expenditure in itself, but a saving that lies there if people move. I do not believe that the proposal was meant to be a saving, but that there should be an extra benefit related to the cost of living in Norway. That was the whole reason when it was introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1239	Today it is necessary to remind the representatives of the red-green parties of the foundation on which they have promised the voters to build their policies. The Soria Moria Declaration states under the heading ‘Persons with disabilities’: «The Government will base its work on the principle of social equality and universal design.» It is almost incomprehensible that parties which have undertaken to take decisions promoting «social equality» for disabled persons actually oppose the proposals in Document No. 8:1 and Document No 8:2 – this is because these documents contain proposals that increase the possibility of equivalence, equivalent life expectancy for persons born either disabled or disabled at an early age. State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has, in a letter dated 9 November this year, justified the Government’s opposition to giving young people the right to retain their supplementary pension when moving abroad. He fears socially motivated immigration. In the Christian People's Party, we are committed to protecting the welfare state from fraud and fraud. We are also concerned that the asylum institution should be reserved for those who actually need protection for life and health. But at the same time, we are very concerned that our social security systems should provide the disabled with an economic basis for good quality of life and equivalent life. Not least, this must be the guiding principle for those defined as ‘young people’ in the sense of social security legislation. We do not believe that our social security system will be under pressure if we allow for the export of young people under an additional pension. And if it were to happen that a disabled foreigner got the supplementary pension to the home country after a few years of living in Norway, yes, we live well in the Christian People's Party. We also believe that the government's fear of social-decent immigration can be remedied to a significant extent with certain changes in the award criteria. You can, for example: imagine that today's requirement for residence is raised from one to three years. Persons defined as ‘young disabled’ have a clear and defined disease. Several of these could have a better life situation if, for example: live in warmer areas or where there are particularly favourable treatment services. This could, in the longer term, provide the young person with less need for health and care services. In other cases, family ties may make it natural for individuals to move abroad. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, society should therefore facilitate that people who have lost their jobs at an early age also have a real opportunity to choose their place of residence freely. Allowing the export of the supplementary pension for this group would mean giving young people more equal opportunities for life than is the case today. I know about several young people who are very disappointed with the outcome of this case. These are persons who, for perfectly legitimate and fully understandable reasons, want to move abroad but who cannot do so if their income is reduced to the minimum pension level. I hope the Council of State will think about what limitations today's legislation actually entails for their lives. I expect that we will have the opportunity to come back to this matter after the so-called Indemnity Pensions Committee has submitted its recommendation. If the Government were to change its mind within that time, the Christian People's Party has membership.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1263	I perceive the system of guaranteed supplementary pensions so that it primarily aims to ensure a sober standard of living for young people who live in Norway. This is also why it was decided in 1993 that the benefit should not be provided outside the country. This view has also been fully implemented in the international context. Thus, the guaranteed supplementary pension is exempted from the otherwise stringent export requirement under the EEA Agreement and the export ban is negotiated in our social security agreements without any objection from the contracting countries. However, I understand that each young person can experience it as unreasonable to lose the guaranteed supplementary pension when moving abroad. After all, in most other cases, pensions derived from popular security can be paid abroad without any change. I am also aware that the individual may have good reasons for moving abroad, including: health. Now it is that today's rules do not prevent any payment of this supplementary pension abroad. In fact, the young disabled person can stay outside Norway for about five months of the year without any consequences. In the international context, this is a favourable scheme, not least when considering that Norway appears to be alone in providing such a special service. The guaranteed supplementary pension will be abolished only when the direct link with Norway and the Norwegian community ceases to exist on emigration. What happens then is that the pension is converted into a normal minimum pension, i.e. ensuring an annual pension of NOK 112 000. The current scheme aims at ensuring a reasonable standard of living in Norway and is therefore closely linked to Norway and Norwegian social conditions. The rules have therefore been laid down to facilitate access for young people to pensions than for other groups, where membership of the population has been required until now for the last three years before disability occurred. The guaranteed supplementary pension group as a young person therefore includes persons who, by virtue of their relationship with Norway, would not normally qualify for a Norwegian pension. The pension is provided precisely because they are here and need the benefit. Therefore, the lifting of the export ban without changes to the rules on qualification period would facilitate speculation in that scheme. By moving to Norway as a disabled person and staying here for a short time, you would be able to enjoy a lifelong right to an almost full pension. On this basis, I am pleased that the majority of the Committee is in favour of postponing this matter until the hearing of the Committee on Occupational Pensions has taken place. This will facilitate a balanced reassessment of the rules, which needs to be adapted to the reality of the day with increasing internationalisation and an increasingly developed international system of social security coordination. Let me just conclude by adding that what I know is that in the debate we've had so far, what I'm responding to is that, for example. The representative of the Christian People's Party says that it is 'nearly incomprehensible', the position we have. It is no more incomprehensible than that it is fully in line with the position the Christian People's Party has had in this matter. It is in line with the position of the Christian People's Party when the arrangement was introduced, and today to present the same position as one has had, as "nearly incomprehensible", I must say that I am responding to it. It was the Christian People's Party's own leader who, during his reign, took the initiative to set up a sample that would expose the whole of the future disability pension, and that this government then chooses to wait for that investigation until we begin to implement the change, I do not think that is an unreasonable position either.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1284	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1186]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1300	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President will propose that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the reported speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1309	Right-wing representatives Erna Solberg, Jan Tore Sanner and Olemic Thommessen have made a proposal to make provisions on social security rights in the event of pregnancy, childbirth and child care for self-employed persons equivalent to those applicable to other workers. The proposers propose 100 pst. coverage up to six times the basic amount and without increasing the social security charge. The proposal contains a desire to ensure equal opportunities for all. Increased value creation in several new entrants and increased equality between men and women are good arguments for the proposal. Young people often run counter to, are creative and untruthful. The desire to determine their own working day, and the dream of success, is often the driving force for those who start up their own business, and these are often the young. At the same time, this is also very often coincident with an age when the desire to have children is strong. It is in the interests of society to stimulate both the creation of jobs and the raising of children. It is a fact that there are more men than women who are self-employed. Some of the explanation may be the lack of rights in relation to pregnancy and care for children. At the same time, self-employed persons do not pay an employer's fee, but instead they are given the opportunity to take out an insurance scheme which guarantees the same rights as a worker in the case of sickness, maternity and care. The insurance premium is lower than the employer’s fee. One of the means of stimulating the start-up of businesses is the significantly lower social security contributions paid by self-employed workers, compared to the sum of social security contributions and employers' contributions paid by employees. It is a fact that starting up a business is both costly, hard-to-work and, not least, risky, and it is a clear advantage that charges on individuals are not too high, at least in a start-up phase. By letter of 30 October 2006, the Council of State of Karita Bekkellem noted that in a 2005 consultation note from the Ministry of Children and the Family, ‘the issue of enhanced rights should be accompanied by an increased social security charge for self-employed persons’. According to the State Council, it was estimated that this would result in an increase in the social security charge of 0.2 percentage points. Finally, in its letter of 30 October 2006, the Council of State states that an assessment of the possible consequences of the social security charge will be part of the follow-up to the hearing by the Government. The right, Christian People's Party and the left all point to the fact that in their 2007 alternative state budgets they will propose that the concrete new rights of self-employed people be implemented. The Party of Advances points out that on 7 July 2005, the Government of Bondevik II sent out to the public hearing an assessment of the rights of self-employed persons to social security benefits. Furthermore, the Progress Party refers to Innst. S. No 38 for 2003-2004 for Document No 8:112 for 2002-2003, by Marit Arnstad, on the right of self-employed persons to care for the illness of children, where the Committee indicated the establishment of an inter-ministerial working group to assess the duties and rights of self-employed persons. The Progress Party welcomes the proposal and asks the Government to present a case to the Stortinget where the report of the 2004 Working Party and the replies to the 2005 Consultation Round to the Bondevik II Government are presented and evaluated. The Progress Party further points to the fact that the Council letter of 30 October 2006 identified some issues relating to the possible introduction of maternity benefits, maternity and adoption benefits, care allowances and training fees, as well as 100 pst. coverage of care allowance from the first day and sickness allowance during pregnancy, which should be investigated. Governments indicate a total cost of about 380 million. kr. The Progress Party has not prioritised this amount in its 2007 Alternative State Budget. However, I see the government parties as very vague in this matter, as in this case, as in most cases promoted by the opposition, only reference is made to the fact that they will continue to work on the matter. The Progress Party therefore promotes a concrete proposal in which we ask for a separate case that highlights all aspects of the topic, in order to improve the rights of self-employed persons in relation to pregnancy, childbirth and care. I take this up with the proposal of the Progress Party as it stands in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1343	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1346	Self-employment can be difficult to combine with family life and small children. Therefore, many young women refuse to start their own business, although they have both the potential and the desire to do so. This isn't hard to understand. It requires courage, effort and willingness to take risks when starting for yourself. This has a lot of women, and we need them in business. It is therefore important that society facilitates the reduction of the risk of being self-employed. Women have a lot to do with business. In my clear opinion, facilitating increased female participation will increase product diversity, increased turnover and increased profitability. In addition, we need to increase access to labour. The Soria Moria Declaration explicitly states that the Government ‘will pursue a policy that provides equal opportunities and real equality for women and men’. So the government acknowledges that in Norway we have a long way to go before women and men really have equal opportunities. In the Christian People's Party, we share this view and base it on our policy design. But there is every reason to ask what the quoted wording of the Soria Moria Declaration means in concrete political initiatives by the Government. In my opinion, the government has done little to facilitate relations for women entrepreneurs, despite the fact that everything was well suited for active action at the government shift last autumn. In the summer of 2005, the former Minister for Gender Equality of the Christian People's Party, Laila Davøy, sent several proposals on gender equality between self-employed and other workers in pregnancy, childbirth and child care to the hearing. As a result, when Karita Bekkemelm took over the State Council chair, it had come a long way to equalise the rights of self-employed and workers in the event of pregnancy and care for young children. Nevertheless, the Government has not done anything about the matter in the year and a half that it has administered the majority power. The Christian People's Party is taking part in its alternative proposal for a government budget for equality as early as next year in the case of self-employed persons' entitlement to sickness benefits under pregnancy, maternity benefits, maternity benefits, adoption benefits, care allowances and care and training allowances. We are impatient on behalf of the women entrepreneurs. We want their framework conditions for participation in business to be as equal as possible. We are sure that equality of rights in the event of pregnancy, childbirth and child care, among other things. will contribute to more women entrepreneurs, increased value creation, increased equality, more jobs and living communities. We believe that such equality will make the situation of female traders easier. I am therefore sorry that the government parties today are opposed to proposals that could contribute to increased equality in our country. The government parties have not given concrete answers to what they will do to get more women entrepreneurs in this country. I hope that the Council of State in its contribution can show that the Government has an offensive equality policy. So far, I think we've seen little about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1367	The centre party believes it is important to improve the social security rights of self-employed persons. Today’s schemes are not good enough to stimulate young people, especially women, to take the risk of starting their own business. It's not good enough when, for example, Young women engaged in their own activities may have to opt out of establishing family and children because it becomes too difficult economically. It is often the case, especially for younger entrepreneurs, that they are in a start-up phase as the company throws little away in the first few years. The centre party has previously taken this up in Stortinget, among others. through a Document No: Eight proposals from Marit Arnstad in the previous period. These issues have also been addressed in the Soria Moria Declaration, which states that the Government ‘will secure entrepreneurs and establish good social arrangements, including by looking at the conditions of self-employed workers to combine professional careers with childcare’. I am pleased that the Minister for Children and Family follows this up in his letter to the Labour and Social Committee. Here she also says that there are good reasons to support a 100 pst scheme. the coverage of maternity and maternity and adoption benefits for self-employed persons irrespective of whether supplementary insurance has been taken. I'm pretty sure it's also socio-economically beneficial to do this, because it just creates security to be able to start your own business and bet on it next to combining it with family life. Although an overall committee supports the intentions of the proposals made by the proposers, we share in terms of implementation. The Minister for Child and Family Affairs has calculated the costs up to 400 million. kr – more positive I can say at the base of 400 million. kr. It is a substantial amount that the opposition is required to be recovered without an increase in the social security charge for self-employed persons. Because the parties who now want to grant this money, even put in government, did not find the opportunity to implement the measures. Now it's obviously easier. But it's positive. The government will continue to work on the matter, says the Council of State in its letter to the Committee. The 2008 budget will be the first opportunity to come back, and from the centre party it has already been announced that this is one of our priority tasks. With regard to funding, there will be a question of whether the measures will be financed in full or in part within the current social security charge or whether an increase in the social security charge can be made for the group concerned, self-employed. We are aware that a consultation proposal to increase the social security charge for this group by 0.2 pst. In order to give increased rights back, I got quite a positive response from approx. half of those who answered. The minutes shall be appended to the proposal of the representative. This is a matter we're coming back to. I agree with the representative Woie Duesund that it is important that we move on and get a decision on this. We all have positive assessments, but we have to decide, and I hope we can get back as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1384	I refer to my previous contribution to the budget debate today, where I took on matters such as the coverage of sickness benefits under pregnancy, maternity benefits, birth and adoption benefits, care allowance, care allowance and training money. But some angles in adders: Technological development means that, as long as distances prevent you from reaching yesterday's society, a key pressure can now be reached. The potential for setting up own business with large geographical distances to customers and markets is considerably greater than before. At the same time, we have – and will be in the foreseeable future – a tight labour market, where central strikes will have many advantages in the fight for labour compared to districts. This also affects housing patterns. An important element in this context is for most families the question of whether both spouses or partners have the opportunity to work where they choose to settle. In rural areas, agriculture is an important job. Nevertheless, the ordinary operation associated with the farm does not involve both spouses. On the contrary, figures from the Farm have shown that an increasing number of both men and women in agriculture work outside the farm. In particular, it is relevant for women living on farms to find work outside the farm. There is a significantly higher proportion of men than women registered as farmers — about 11 pst. are women. The women who run farms also operate the smallest uses. The overall picture shows the need for the creation of additional jobs related to ordinary agriculture. This is done through the establishment of niche food production, farm tourism, green care, etc. The challenge for women starting these businesses is that they come in the same situation as any other self-employed person, with worse conditions related to pregnancy, childbirth and care for sick children. As the farm operates only as a result of agricultural negotiations with the same rights as employees in these areas, the additional work places on the farm, which are women's jobs – and they are most often so – will be subject to a separate female tax in order to obtain the same rights as employees have. Framework conditions and motivation factors for starting own business are of great importance for motivation and residence in outlying areas. Not least, the theme is of great importance to a number of families who are at a stage where they have children or plan to have them. The case concerns the principle aspects of children's right to care and gender equality. It is an important regional policy dimension, because establishing its own business often represents the only, or most important, employment opportunity in districts as a complement to or alternative to farm operations. All the changes I have referred to earlier today need to be implemented without increasing the social security charge for that group. The financing of modified schemes through increased social security contributions for self-employed persons will appear as an additional ‘breeding/women’s tax’. The changes need to be made in order to take into account the needs of children for parental care, gender equality in working life and enterprise and innovation policy objectives, including district policy. I would also like to point out what I have said earlier in the budget debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1407	There are many different reasons why the proposal we are considering today is a good proposal both in relation to family policy and in relation to equality. But I want to talk more about what might be most important to our country in the future, the fact that we need more entrepreneurs. We need more people who are willing to start for themselves. We need more people who start their own business and create new jobs, because all the research and development shows that on the labour market we per. today's date has, probably comes 50 pst. of jobs to be gone in twenty years — but they will be replaced by new jobs if we are able to build a culture and a working life for both innovation and start-ups. That means we need to take a look at what we're good at in Norway and what we're bad at. The previous government did it. In the context of our overall plan for innovation policy, where the government ambitiously said that Norway should become one of the world's most innovative countries, one of five key areas was taken out. It was the foundation – the innovation; the opportunity to bet. As a result, last year, the Bondevik II government, in its draft budget, took a real boost for school start-ups through student and student companies. That means we planned a new job for it. But there's also another thing that we've identified. It is in two other areas that we in international comparisons make it bad, namely who wants to create their own businesses and where we get to the foundation and innovation idea. One concerns the group of immigrants, new Norwegian countrymen who establish businesses more often than the average of Norwegians. However, in relation to other countries, minority cultures are less innovative in Norway than in other western countries, where they create more. That's why we created our own Entrepreneurship Programme for immigrants and minorities, where one of the measures is based on the same principles that were rewarded with the Nobel Peace Prize this year. It is therefore a national Norwegian network credit wager linked to the founding of immigrants. The second area, as it turns out that we are worse at international level, concerns the group of women. Then you can ask yourself why it's like this. In the United States, there are far more women starting their own business than there are in Norway. In most European countries, there are far more women starting their own businesses than in Norway. I think this is at the crossroads between something in our culture, that maybe you haven't asked women to do it the same way before, and you might have experienced that it hasn't been as much of a priority. There is also a very large difference between the high level of safety you have as an employee and the low level of safety you have as an employer and start-up in Norway. That sense of security is important for women when starting their own business. What's unique and good about us is that we've managed to get a society where you can have high female participation and combine it with responsibility for family and children. That is why we are country no. 2 in birth statistics in Europe at the moment. That's why we said it's important to do something that can equal economic security. We can't take away the risk by starting our own business. We might be better off not being so petty if it goes well, because our tax system doesn't punish as much when it goes well, but at least we can't take away the risk each person has to take. We can't sew cushions under the arms of those who are going to be innovative, but we can do something in the areas that I know, and that I'm convinced that most other women know that you're thinking about going out and trying to start your own business, namely, do I want to be able to combine this with a family life? For most women, you think you should be able to live a life where you don't choose to have children, and you don't choose to have a family life, and it costs almost 400 million. kr. But the investment is 400 million. kr – if more women start businesses – will mean more jobs, more innovation and a healthier Norwegian economy in the future, because we are able to use all the talents. And nothing tells me that women have less talent to start their own businesses. On the contrary. In Young Entrepreneurship, a majority of those taking on leadership jobs in the schoolwork are girls. We should make sure to grow it. Then we must not confront them with the choice between being able to take care of the family and starting their own business. It's just about time we did something about it. That is why we have promoted this proposal. Now I hope the government does something about it. I think it would have been a nice mark on what we have proposed, had entered into force on March 8th next year, but the government has the chance to do something before that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1424	Like the proposers, the government and I are very concerned about creating good conditions for self-employed people and stimulating innovation and entrepreneurship among women. The Soria Moria Declaration also states that the Government will ensure entrepreneurs and establish good social arrangements, including: by looking at the conditions under which self-employed persons may combine professional careers with childcare. I also want to say to you, among other things. The representative, Erna Solberg, is very much in agreement that, in relation to the future Norwegian value creation, it is important to focus on the company, and then, of course, also on female entrepreneurs. There may be many answers to why we have not come out better in Norway than we have done. One thing that the three parties currently in government are concerned about, at least, is to use the state actively in order to establish business. I have been working on several of these questions for many years, including: in my own home state, and there is one thing I know, namely that many entrepreneurs are calling on the state to distribute risk. I have experienced the Right Business Policy for very many years in this Chamber, and it is not exactly a very active country and an active enterprise policy that has been the answer to these questions. We can leave that to us. We can also leave the impatience of the Christian People's Party, which has come a little over a year after one went out of government offices. But there's one thing we're not actually criticizing, namely that we haven't been able to satisfy our entire statement in a little over a year. The political history in this field is such that we don't talk about just four years. For the Christian People's Party, we're talking about seven years in government and having the opportunity to pay. I actually want to bring forward the commitment that the Center Party and the Workers' Party have had in this field, and I want to be so honest as to say that there is no major political disagreement that has led to it. We just have to be so honest that we say that in terms of priorities, none of the parties have been able to phase this in the way that we might politically want. That's the answer. Furthermore, I think we should take seriously the invitation we have now received from the opposition to create a more active industrial policy, to ensure that the rights of these workers – as we call them – are also safeguarded in a slightly different way, that self-employed people, who are responsible for an important value creation in our society, must also be granted rights in a different way from what we have managed to give them. That's where we're going to do a job. I would like to refer to the letter we have sent to the Committee, and I would also like to ask for an understanding that we do not have the opportunity to debate the future budget through a Document No. Eight proposals. But I think it promises well if the whole Stortinget can now try to take an offensive grip on getting more entrepreneurs in place. We know that it is also important with regard to our rural policy that much of the creativity and desire to create new jobs, especially in agriculture and fisheries, is better cared for than we have until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1435	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1438	I asked for a line, because I reacted to the story of Karita Bekkemelm. First of all, the previous government had a very active industrial policy, but we didn't have the industrial policy that the Workers' Party stands for. We had a forward-looking, innovation-oriented business policy. We created the Center of Experty. We created new business farms. We made sure to establish seed funds in this country. We established a number of instruments and strengthened others – all of which went in one direction: prioritisation of innovation and innovation. In that area, we've been in front, far ahead of the Workers' Party, who wanted to emulate it. Secondly, when the budget was presented, Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen said that we are lucky in Norway, because we can afford to give priority to what is most important. It says everything about the areas where government parties have not been put into the budget. That means that this was not the most important thing, that it was something other than making sure that the choice between family and business was not so hard, which was the most important thing for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1448	I just want to repeat what I said in my post, that the criticism that the Right now tries to do, actually don't bite the Government. I've noticed, even in my own home country, that in terms of our export industry and many small business operators, these have repeatedly been put in government in the last few years, hearing that the toolbox was actually empty, that there were no instruments. There's one thing I think Right now is going to have to give an answer when they point to the venture of entrepreneurs: who is going to go in and take that risk? If there are no private actors who are willing to spit in this capital, who is going to go in and take the risk? That's exactly what the government has been responding to. We are, in fact, willing to use state instruments, through, among other things. Innovation Norway, and we do not cut the appropriations, as the Right did in its industrial policy, which in turn can lead to many important district jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1453	I still think Karita Bekkelmem should not talk about a story that is not true. Firstly, the toolbox was about shortcomings in the acquisition law, and I note today that the government is not reintroducing a acquisition law. So what this statement was about is something the government doesn't have. One area that we prioritised when we were in government was all about innovation and innovation. We put forward a budget for it last year, but the government that joined us cut off what is future. They cut off research, and they cut off instruments in Innovation Norway compared to the Bondevik II government promoted. It's on the side of the case, but I think Karita Bekkemelm should sit down and read what she's been doing in government, instead of standing here and telling imaginative fairy tales. Then we're going to agree on the main thing today, that it's important to do something for women and innovation. The important thing is to do what we've suggested. Then we're going to have to wait for Karita Bekkemelm to be given time or given priority in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1460	I understand that business policy is a very sore toe toe toe to the right. I also understand that the Right has a need to rebuild a position as a strong business party, especially after the Progress Party not only breaths them into their necks, but has actually overlooked them to a great extent in terms of credibility in industrial policy. Maybe it's that the political memory is short, but I think many, both here in the hall and also around the whole country, are very aware of what the Right delivered when it was an active enterprise policy. To the concrete proposal that is on the table today: the Government will go in and make concrete assessments on each point. But I notice that Erna Solberg is willing to go much further now than when she herself sat in government. Now there's in some ways no limit on how much you're willing to give in this field. It's a little bit about trustworthiness.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1469	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1474	First, I want to say – after hearing the statements of the Council of State, with the corresponding exchange of lines – that I am very happy to have such a committed and direct Council of State. It promises well, because what was said here came from the heart. This is something that I'm sure is going to be followed up. The dare and dryness to do something new depends on a certain level of security, encouragement and support. It is gratifying that in this case there is a focus on securing entrepreneurs and establishing good and social arrangements – i.e. in good Norwegian: This is something for those who want to start with something separate for their own bill and risk, as it is called out in the countryside. Most of us start with something for their own account and risk when we've had extra intrusions and forces to provide something extra, and for many, it's just in the youth. But youth and childcare belong naturally together. We are in a situation where sea-going business is the most common form of company for these newcomers. In this way, we need to put a sharp focus on the conditions of a sea-going trader in order to combine professional careers with childcare. This is too unsafe today. Today's situation requires so much that many who are bold, who want and dare something new, yet do not dare, because they, for example, do not dare. by the circle of friends or the older generation, the social security system is, in this very situation of life, much better for employees. It is the situation of employees that has been in focus. Here we have had strong professional organisations and strong professional cooperation, and here we have achieved very good results. For women, younger maritime workers, it has never been possible to obtain similar political support, but now it is – and it is joyous – something that is about to happen. Now we have a responsible state council that will address it. A majority of the option ‘concludes the assessment that there are good reasons to support a 100 pst scheme. coverage of maternity and maternity and adoption benefits for self-employed persons, whether or not supplementary insurance is taken out’. It's very joyful. In the Center Party, this is a priority matter. 100 pst. the coverage of maternity and maternity and adoption benefits up to 6 G for maritime operators, irrespective of whether supplementary insurance has been taken out, is an important handshake that will stimulate the establishment of activities for its own account and risk. This handshake from the community will be returned as tenfold income through a more versatile and female-friendly business.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1501	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1186]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1509	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1 – 3 on today’s map.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e1517	Ten proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposals No. 3, 4 and 5, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 6 and 7, by Martin Engeset on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Amendment No. 8, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 9 and 10, from Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 1 and 2, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e4016	The proposals are then put to the vote. 9 and 10, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e4041	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7, from the right, Christian party and left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e4065	There is a vote on proposal No. 8 from the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e4085	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–5, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e6570	The President assumes that the Advance Party wants to vote against the vote. - It's nodding. The President also assumes that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left will now support the vote. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e6589	During the debate, Kari Kjønaas Kjos put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e6604	An alternative is to vote between the Committee's position and the proposal of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit amendments to the law as soon as possible, which means that persons considered as young persons may retain the supplementary pension when moving abroad.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e6624	During the debate, Mr Kjønaas Kjos put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a complaint on social security rights for self-employed women.’
ParlaMint-NO_2006-12-08.ana.ud2074e6657	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
