ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e38	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Centre Party's large group to the representative Lars Peder Breck from 27 April until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Anna Ceselie Brustad, is hereby called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e53	Anna Ceselie Brustad is present and will take the seat. The representative Odd Einar Dørum will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e58	On behalf of the representatives of Borghild Tenden, Gunnar Kvassheim, Trine Skei Grande and myself, I propose to introduce a year of competence to teachers in primary and secondary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e63	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e77	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and that it be allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines after the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e86	Work against social dumping and other irregularities in the labour market is a priority of the Government. One of the instruments in this way is the transitional rules for workers from the new EEA countries, which we are dealing with today. As the EEA enlargement in 2004 addressed its impact, it was foreseen that the issues of social dumping would be primarily a challenge in the provision of services, i.e.: when workers from the new EEA countries work on behalf of a local employer in Norway. However, transitional arrangements were considered necessary for workers from the new EEA countries who wish to live and work on an individual basis in Norway. The essential provisions are the requirement for a residence permit, for the worker to have Norwegian pay and working conditions and full-time employment. Within these frameworks, immigration from the new EEA countries has been positive and has contributed to strong demand for labour in Norway. In fact, since 1 May 2004, immigration from the new EEA countries has been higher in Norway than in Sweden, which does not have transitional arrangements. This shows that the transitional arrangements do not prevent labour immigration but are good instruments of social dumping. The fear of so-called welfare tourism has been unfounded, as it appears that welfare schemes are being used only to a small extent by immigrants from the new EEA countries. However, in its comments, the Progress Party expresses concern about the negative use of Norwegian welfare schemes. They request a review of welfare schemes to which workers from EEA countries and their families may be subject. The actual experience we have with today's schemes shows that there is little cause for concern. The use of the schemes is small, and we have to keep in mind that here we are dealing primarily with solid taxpayers – adults, graduates who have full-time jobs and Norwegian salaries. What, on the other hand, can be a challenge is the situation that may arise if the Progress Party takes advantage of its family policy, where all grants and support schemes for families with children are to be distributed in cash without being linked to the use of, for example: kindergartens. In the current situation, the majority of the Committee does not see the need for the review proposed by the Progress Party. On the other hand, I would recommend that the Progress Party review its own policy in the field. As mentioned at the outset, the main problems of social dumping are those seen in the provision of services to posted workers. We've seen Eastern European construction workers who have to pledge bottles to get money for food, workers who are being cheated for pay, who are being offered poor housing and long working days. There is an overall committee that sees the need for action against social dumping. In a letter to the Committee, the Council of State warns that a number of measures against social dumping will be presented in the revised national budget for 2006. This is a firm follow-up to the government’s priorities in the fight against social dumping, black work and other irregularities and illegalities in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e105	I note that the previous speakers were concerned that the Progress Party would go through its programme. We do that at regular intervals. The programme we have presented this time, on which we went to the elections, is a very good one, which the representative should study carefully. Then there would be many good solutions from that edge too. I am pleased to note that the transitional arrangements for workers from the new EEA countries have so far worked as intended. I am also pleased that the majority wants to continue today's transitional arrangements. The Progress Party pointed out that it was unnecessary to adopt an offensive stance to liberalise labour migration regulation rapidly in order to ensure high-quality migration from the new EU regions. The members of the Progress Party supported the introduction of transitional labour immigration rules for eight out of the 10 new EU countries, and underlined that it was alarming that the Government had acted so passively in relation to the challenges that the expansion of the labour market could lead to in Norway. I noticed that in St.meld. No 9 points out that the transitional arrangements may have helped to reduce unregistered work and that the checks carried out by the Labour Inspectorate have revealed a lack of work permit for employees in Norwegian or Norwegian registered establishments. According to St.meld. No A total of 37,200 persons from the new EEA countries were authorised to work in 2005 — an increase of about 1 %. 30 pst. in relation to 2004. The previous year’s increase was 40 p.m. Approximately half of the permits granted in 2005 were renewals. The Progress Party considers that a further increase would have to be expected if the transitional arrangements were to be abolished. In his remarks in the Inner East. S. No 149 for 2003-2004 the members of the Progress Party, together with the Centre Party, pointed out that the vast majority of Western European countries have tightened their welfare performance ‘in fear of being abused by welfare tourists from the new Member States’. The same members noted that enlargement could in the long term lead to a threat to Norwegian citizens from a poorer welfare offer and that this would be an unfortunate consequence. In St.meld. No 9 It is noted that welfare schemes such as health benefits, day-care and social assistance have been used little or almost as well as not, while Statistical Central Bureau points to the use of child welfare, birth-related lump-sum benefits and cash support. The Progress Party considers that this provides a basis for a thorough review of the Norwegian welfare systems in view of the limitations and possible adaptations to any increase in migration from EEA countries, also in view of the future development of possible non-transitional arrangements. I note that a number of countries in Europe are now considering removing the transitional arrangements for labour immigration from the new EEA countries, while developing positively the labour markets and the economy of the new countries and reducing the need to seek work in other countries. Such developments may, in my view, lead to a smaller need for transitional arrangements in the future, while increasing the need for new labour in Norway, and the inclusion of workers from EEA countries may have a positive impact on the Norwegian labour market. However, for the time being, we consider it necessary to continue the arrangements, and we believe that the last two years have shown that they work properly. In order to prevent the negative development of the use of Norwegian welfare schemes and to prevent the suspicion of foreign workers, in particular at a time when there is no transitional arrangements and special market measures, the Progress Party promotes proposals for a review of welfare schemes with a view to an adaptation that could contribute to the over-reliance of transitional arrangements in the future. I'm going to deal with the proposals. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e128	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e131	In this case, it is necessary to raise your eyes in order to understand what this is all about. Through the enlargement of the EU to include 10 new Member States and 75 million new EU citizens from 1 May 2004, the EU has become the world’s foremost peace, democracy and welfare project. As part of the liberation from communist dictatorships and poverty, a number of former Eastern bloc countries sought a anchor in the EU to secure themselves against future power abuses, promote democracy and lay the foundation for growth, prosperity and hope for a better future. And more countries are on their way. When the story of this is going to be written in a few years' time, I am convinced that it will establish that this was just a historic event, which helped to lift millions of people out of poverty, persecution and misery. It is in this perspective that we should see the present case ‘on the transitional arrangements for workers from the new EEA countries’. Norway, as a nation, faces many major challenges in the years to come. One of the largest is to ensure sufficient labour for both the private and public sectors. This will be a crucial condition for the success of continuing growth and progress, and for ensuring the basic services of the welfare society in the health and care sector. Through the EEA Agreement, the industry in Norway has full access to this large and enlarged market. For a small country such as Norway with only 4.6 million inhabitants, it is essential to ensure our well-being and jobs that our businesses and our businesses have the possibility of full free trade and trade with such a large market. This freedom and these opportunities, fortunately, extend far beyond what can be justified by an economic or commercial need. The EU and EEA Agreement provide each individual citizen in Norway with unique opportunities to seek work, settle and create a new and exciting future in another country in our part of the world. Many are the ones who take advantage of this opportunity. Recently, the Committee was on a study trip to Spain, where tens of thousands of Norwegians have settled on a fixed basis. Of course, this freedom, which we take as a matter of course, must also apply to the other way: to citizens of EEA countries who want to work in and move to Norway. This free movement in Europe, including for people, is a cornerstone of EU cooperation. It is therefore gratifying to record that there is an overall committee that expresses a positive attitude towards labour migration. Yes, even the Progress Party, which has been a brake block for a long time, is now moving in the right direction and states in its observations that: «the entry of workers from EEA countries may have a positive effect on the Norwegian labour market». That's good. We know that in many sectors it is already difficult to find skilled labour. Estimates have shown that in 2010, Norway will lack 220,000 people to meet the labour demand. The need in the municipal sector alone will require everyone who is currently in a training course. Although future scenarios are filled with great uncertainty, this is so serious that we have to take it seriously. We should therefore take the view that competition for available labour will be tougher in the years to come. The public and private sectors will increasingly compete for labour. This is a competition that neither the private nor the public sector can afford to lose. This is precisely why we should make the best possible use of our ability to attract labour from the new EU countries. The good economic times in Norway are now experiencing a severe reduction in unemployment after four years of civil administration, if labour supply ceases to exist. It had not been possible to build 30,000 new dwellings last year without labour immigration. The wage and cost pressure had also become significantly stronger, and many companies had to say no to many tasks. Thousands of Norwegian jobs had become unsafe. Unfortunately, Norway cannot expect any permanent access to our own labour reserve from EU countries, including Norway. because the economic growth of Eastern Europe is much stronger than the growth of Western EU countries and the availability of labour in Norway is now experiencing, perhaps only temporary. Many of these people who are here today will probably leave Norway after a while to take part in the economic growth and prosperity development that is taking place in their own country. It is interesting to note that, in the conclusion on the liquidation of the transitional arrangements, we have the support of the European Trade Union Confederation. Indeed, they state that the restrictions on labour mobility of the new Member States are contrary to the fundamental rights of individuals and believe that the objective must be free movement throughout the enlarged Union. Yeah, that's right, that's how well it's said. When the year’s 1st May marker is right around the corner, it is in its place to express a hope that Norwegian trade union movement will arrive at the same conclusion as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e155	It is true that Norway needs labour. It is quite right that labour immigration is important and necessary for Norway, and SV has been a strong spokesperson in order to facilitate more labour immigration. But it has to be done in such a way that it is an advantage for both parties. It is quite right that the transitional arrangements we now have are a mechanism that Norway has chosen to use for a period of time because we see developments in our own labour market that are worrying. They are linked to the social dumping situation. That is the only reason SV believes that we should have such transitional arrangements. Looking at developments over the last few years after the introduction of the transitional arrangements, we see that they have not prevented people from coming to Norway and working. They have also helped to ensure that people have received good pay and working conditions. In view of being able to attract labour in the future, as Engeset now described – that this competition may be very hard ahead, because there is a dynamic development also in many other countries – one of the competitive mechanisms we have here in Norway could be that we offer people good pay and safe working conditions. It's actually also what has civilised this society, I think, and what has been the most important prerequisite for us today to have a welfare policy and a welfare model that Europe sees as the Nordic welfare model. The bearer in that model has been that we have managed to ensure the best possible pay and working conditions for people, which has made it possible to contribute to the community as well as to safeguard their own health and their own lives. In addition, it turns out that this model is actually also by the most economically successful in the world. That is why it is essential, at least from our point of view, that when we open up and get a more globalised labour market, we must ensure that the mechanisms that have made Norway a good country to live in and even have a very successful economy are kept in place. Then it's important that until we have stronger mechanisms in place to secure ourselves against social dumping, which will break up this pillar of our society, we choose to say: yes, we keep the transitional arrangements for a while. Then I would like to stress from SV that this is not a question of dividing different EU citizens into different classes, to put it that way. I have been in contact with embassies from some of the new EU countries who have pointed this out, saying that, yes, they see that in practice this does not prevent labour immigration to Norway, but they perceive it this way. Then from our side I want to stress very strongly that that is not the intention. Our aim is to ensure that the workers who come to Norway through this scheme get good pay and working conditions, so that they are not exploited, but also that we put in place the social fabric and the social capital that it is, which is absolutely necessary to keep in place the welfare state we have. This is in a way a small tab of a very important matter that we have to work on further, and which the Government has notified that they will come up with in relation to. It is a matter of putting in place a lot of measures against social dumping, because there is a development in the labour market now, for example. The craft companies tell us that it is starting to become that it is just those who cheat, and the basements, that are winning out. Honest people can no longer run small businesses. So we can't have it like that. They also say that another effect of this is that there will be far greater pay differences if we don't manage to stop this. It will turn right into the pay bag for the vast majority of employees in this country if we don't manage to stop it. In addition, there will be more health-threatening jobs if we do not manage to control this in a better way than today. There will be a loss situation both for the country, for most people and also for business, of course, because then we enter a negative spiral in relation to the positive spiral that Norwegian economy and Norwegian society are today. That is why we want to support these transitional arrangements today. But when measures against social dumping are in place, we want to eliminate them as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e166	It is positive that workers from EEA countries come to Norway to work. We need more hands in, among others. construction and agricultural industries. Immigrant labour makes it possible for us to maintain a high level of activity, while wage developments are moderate and price developments are limited. This is not least important in order to preserve the competitiveness of the export industries. However, labour immigration is not only an advantage for ‘us’. Immigrants also provide many families in the new EEA countries with the opportunity to raise money by working in Norway for a period of time. For example, in the 1950s and 1960s. not obtain family fathers from South America who travelled to America, work as ‘floormen’ and saved sufficient funds to enable household dreams and car wishes to be realized by returning to Norway. For the Christian People's Party, it is essential and a prerequisite for labour immigration to be said to be sound and desirable, for migrant labour to be offered Norwegian pay and working conditions. We can, for example: do not accept that Polish and Latvian workers are paid a salary in Norway equivalent to what they would have been paid in their country of origin. Such a practice would be unworthy of foreign workers and unfortunate for developments in the Norwegian labour market. I am pleased that the Minister of Labour and Inclusion shows a great commitment to finding measures that prevent social dumping. In the view of the Christian People's Party, it is very important that this problem be addressed on the basis of a broad range of instruments. Labour and Petroleum Supervision must have sufficient resources and competences and, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, it is necessary to provide the supervisory authorities with the means to impose periodic penalty payments in the event of a failure to follow up decisions under the Public Service Act. The transitional arrangements for workers from new EEA countries have so far worked as intended. They are administratively simple, with a continuous short period of time. And I would like to point out that both the LO and the NHO in the Stortinget hearings have stated that the transitional arrangements do not prevent the necessary labour. Transitional arrangements are an important instrument to ensure sound pay and working conditions for foreign workers in Norway. We know that employers in some cases have offered foreign workers an unreasonably low wage, and it is necessary to be able to prevent this. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, the transitional arrangements must be continued until we have more instruments to combat social dumping in place. It is positive that the Government aims to return to this already in the revised national budget, and in this respect it is natural that the Storting should re-assess the need for the continuation of the transitional arrangements. For the Christian People's Party, it is not an objective that the transitional arrangements should last the entire three-year period. The transitional arrangements do not apply to service providers, self-employed persons and business start-ups. The law of general government helps to some extent this, but in my view and in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, it is particularly important that the Government is working on measures against social dumping for the groups of workers not covered by the transitional arrangements. The Christian People's Party believes it is necessary for the political authorities to give high priority to the work of seriousness in the labour market. To achieve the objective of good working conditions for all those working in this country, the Government must have good contact with all social partners. We expect good contact with both employers and employees on these issues and that workers' organisations other than the LO will also be listened to. I refer to the position and look forward to a new debate on labour immigration and social dumping in connection with the presentation of the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e189	There are different assessments in this room of the blessings of an open European labour market. I am not among those who share the EU's Lisbon strategy that Europe's growth strength is best re-created by further liberalisation of economic policy and the labour market. The Services Directive will certainly be a new and difficult issue, which we will discuss when the processes in the EU are completed. Possibly it serves the free flow of labour, goods and services of the competitiveness of industry. In a situation where the level of wages in some of the new EU countries is much lower than in Norway, it is clear that there are gains for those who only look at the wage budgets and the cost of goods produced. On the other hand, those who are also concerned about the traditions that we have of equalization and equivalence between different groups in this country have much greater cause for concern. There is no reason to be proud of how we have received many of the Eastern European jobseekers in this country so far, across the board. In the big news, the government shows that we now have significant labour immigration to Norway. 37 200 persons from the new EEA countries received a work permit in 2005, which is an increase of 30 pst. from 2004. In other words, the transitional arrangements for workers from the new EEA countries that Norway chose in the same way as many EU countries chose to introduce after the enlargement of the EU in 2004 have in no way closed its borders. On the contrary, Norway is one of the countries receiving most of the labour immigrants, and significantly more than our neighbouring country, Sweden, which has opted not to introduce transitional arrangements. I see that representatives of the Polish trade union movement consider the Norwegian transitional rules to be more liberal than the rules in some other countries. However, it is most interesting that Norway is considered to be more easily accessible to Polish immigrants than to Sweden, which is without transitional rules. It is because Sweden has other instruments, primarily through organisational control of the labour market, that regulate labour migration. In the Central Party, we are pleased that the Government, and now the majority of the population, want to continue the transitional arrangements. The requirements for work permits for individual workers before starting work have, in practice, been far from being an instrument for shutting down jobseekers from abroad. The requirement to provide workers with Norwegian pay and working conditions and, as a general rule, full-time employment is essential to ensure proper conditions for those coming here and to avoid social dumping. So the critics say about our transitional arrangements that they contribute to the search for loopholes to avoid the demands. All right. User-friendly employers and companies engaged in the hiring of labour, regulation, or intentional breach of the rules, in order to be able to pick up labour which is subject to much worse conditions than the transitional rules require. The N.O. uses this as a justification for the winding-up of schemes they call unnecessary red tape. But the two possibly most affected NHO associations, the National Association of Construction and the National Association of Service Companies, separate teams with the parent organisation and support the proposal for an extension. I'm glad. These organisations see, like the Government and the Committee majority, the need to establish much stronger mechanisms to avoid social dumping before removing the transitional rules. I record that the Right and Left want to appear as more reindeer liberalists by being spokespersons for an entirely open labour market within the EEA area – ‘foreign workers constitute a resource to which we cannot afford to say no’, it says. Then these parties also add that everyone who works in Norway should have proper pay and working conditions. Yes, we agree on that, but it is probably also important then to be aware that we do not get everyone who comes to Norway, proper pay and working conditions without having a political will to ensure it. It does not help to say that everyone should be welcome to Norway, and that they should be given the same conditions as we have, unless Norwegian authorities actively contribute to facilitating it, and that it comes before we open up the labour market. So I'm glad that at least you haven't taken this out in the form of your own suggestions. In the Central Party, we simply believe it is necessary to continue the transitional rules for workers from the new EEA countries. We don't have a labour market that per. present shows sufficient maturity to ensure these workers equivalent conditions in the Norwegian labour market. We therefore look forward to the Government now making proposals against social dumping, which we will receive when we deal with the revised national budget. There may be a larger test in this Chamber, too, on the will we have to make words of action, and to ensure that we want people to be welcomed, but on conditions that both safeguard the dignity of those who are coming, and that ensure a Norwegian labour market that is still based on the principles we base here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e210	It is regrettable that the Government will maintain today's transitional arrangements. The left believes it is time to remove the transitional rules. Since labour immigration from the east has not been found to threaten Norwegian jobs or welfare schemes, the transitional rules become a purely ranking of the citizens of the EEA in first- and second-class citizens. According to the U.D., the Norwegian authorities distributed more than 37 000 work permits in 2005, which is 33 pst. more than in 2004. Despite this marked increase in employment, unemployment in Norway is falling. Figures from Aetat show that the unemployment rate in the construction industry, which is the sector most likely to be exposed to labour migration, has fallen by 19 p.m. the last year. The size of labour immigration follows the situation in the labour market. Countries with high labour needs receive more workers than countries with low labour needs. It is this dynamic that has led Norway to receive more Eastern Europeans than Sweden in the last two years, but far less than, for example, Sweden. Ireland. In its main message, the government says that the labour market here in Norway is expected to improve this year, which may mean that the transitional arrangements should be able to be lifted without significant negative effects on the labour market. The reason why the Government will maintain the transitional regime is that it is afraid that this could promote the development of more unfair labour market conditions, social dumping, as long as no measures are in place to counteract this. Then I would like to list the measures we already have against social dumping today: the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Inspectorate oversee the activities that follow the terms of the work and residence permit; we also have the ILO Convention 94; we have an expanded reporting obligation to the Central Tax Office for Foreign Affairs; we have an action plan against financial crime and undeclared work; the generalisation system; and finally, a reporting obligation under the Foreign Affairs Act that has not yet entered into force; and an intention on requirements for ID cards in the construction industry. The question then is, how many more measures do we need to deal with social dumping? The left would stress that it is a clear pre-requisite that all workers in Norway should have proper pay and working conditions and that careful monitoring of compliance with the applicable pay and work environment legislation is necessary. However, we believe that we already have measures that can counteract this, by requiring workers and immigrants to comply with the Norwegian rules of the game that apply to all workers in this country, as well as with specific rules that apply to migrant workers. Making it more difficult for EEA citizens to come to Norway may be a reason why more people take advantage and ‘hidden’ away from the authorities and work black. Left believes that by opening the boundaries so that conditions become the same for everyone, some of the problems will disappear. The left therefore believes that it is time to remove the transitional rules, so that the possibility of living and working in Norway is equal for all EEA citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e231	I think it has been an interesting and good debate to listen to. Most of the submissions are about weighing for and against, and the question being asked is in many ways: are there most arguments for or most of the arguments against continuing the transitional arrangements? My starting point and the starting point of the Government is that there are good arguments both to continue the transitional arrangements and to abolish them. From the summer of 2003, Norway has experienced a boom. Workers from the new EEA countries have met parts of an increasing labour demand. About 37 000 work permits were granted in 2005. The number of permits has increased until now in 2006. Nearly half of the permits in 2005 were renewals. A growing number of people stay here for a longer time, and so do we when it comes to housing. Inflows have reduced the size of bottlenecks in the Norwegian labour market and promoted economic growth. In the view of the Government, the transitional arrangements have worked as intended. They contribute to the orderly conditions of employment of workers in terms of pay and working conditions and do not impede access to necessary labour for employers. A lifting of the transitional arrangements would also have taken an important control tool from the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Authority. The Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Inspectorate report that they encounter to a large extent issues related to the pay and working conditions of non-resident workers. The experience of the supervisors is that many workers do not get the conditions they require. This applies in particular to posted workers coming here with their non-resident employer in the context of service assignments. These are used in many industries, but they are in the construction industry there are most examples of some very poor pay and working conditions. When the transitional arrangements are repealed, individual employees will be subject to the same pay rules as those currently applicable to posted workers, i.e.: the making public of collective agreements, in so far as the parties choose to use that means. As a result, the Government considers that it is too early to abolish the transitional arrangements now. Before repealing the transitional arrangements, we believe that we need to put in place more measures to prevent unacceptable pay and working conditions for foreign workers. All those working in Norway must have proper conditions, and the Government will pursue offensive policies to achieve this. We will therefore work actively to strengthen measures against social dumping in a number of areas. In this work, we work closely with the social partners. In the big news, we have given a description of the challenges we face in this regard, and in the Communication we also mention a wide range of measures that may be relevant. As I have notified the Committee, this is something we are planning to come back thoroughly to already in the revised national budget in May. When the transitional arrangements are no longer considered necessary or desirable in the light of this work and in the light of the labour market situation, the arrangements will be abolished. I want to work to make it happen over the next three years. The Progress Party has proposed that a review be carried out of all the Norwegian welfare schemes involving workers and family members from EEA countries who are living or working in Norway and that, on the basis of such a review, a case be submitted to the Stortinget. With the knowledge we now have of labour immigration from the new EEA countries, there is no basis for claiming that there is an extensive use of Norwegian welfare goods. For example, only six persons from the new EEA countries received social assistance from the EEA extension until 31 December 2004. A statistical central agency report with figures from 2005 will be available in the summer of 2006. When the report from the SSB is available, we will have a good basis to form a clearer picture of the use of these goods and any need for changes or new guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e246	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e249	Some of us come directly from a meeting with the construction industry in Oslo and around. There we heard several clear examples of breaches of safety regulations in the workplace, especially in foreign companies. There are complaints about a lack of control by the Labour Inspectorate and it must be clear that there should be the same legislation in the workplace for foreign enterprises as for Norwegian enterprises. The enforcement of security controls is very often carried out at the presence of the Labour Inspectorate in the workplace. I would like to ask the Minister if he will take the initiative to have a special focus on foreign labour and foreign companies established in the construction industry so that security conditions can be violated.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e254	I agree with the replicator that there is a very central issue that is addressed. There is no doubt that the construction industry is one of the sectors where the challenges are the greatest and the role of the Labour Inspectorate is very central. For this reason, the Labour Inspectorate has also seen the need to give priority to work on foreign labour and foreign companies in Norway. The Labour Inspectorate has recently been reorganized in such a way that the supervision has moved to Trondheim, and we have received a smaller directorate and a larger regional office. So we've tried to strengthen the outer device. In this context, the Labour Inspectorate has organised itself in such a way as to have a separate unit working with non-resident workers, as a special priority area. I am dedicated to strengthening their ability to do a good job in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e259	I am glad that the Council of State had such a balanced approach in its contribution to the fact that there are obviously both positive and negative elements associated with the present system. I was going to address a question in this line mentioned in the setting, which we on the Right long assessed whether we should go in for or not. We ended up standing with the majority. This is the question raised by the Christian People’s Party in its special comment, on page 7 of the position, in which they promote the means by which ‘the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Authority should be authorised to impose periodic penalty payments in the absence of follow-up decisions under the Public Service Act’ — for example. Is there a question that the Council of State considers in the context of the measures it intends to present in the context of the revised national budget, or is it an action that he does not regard as relevant, since his parliamentary basis in the Storting has not supported it in this position?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e266	It is absolutely among the measures that we believe are relevant and that we have to assess when we are working on this comprehensive review of social dumping measures that we are going to present to the Stortinget in the revised national budget. It is pointed out by several teams that the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Inspectorate are hampered in their work that they do not have access to the type of penalty, that it is very strange that happens in parts of this industry, and that when you have to send the case to the police, you spend too much time. It takes too much time before reactions are triggered. That's why we're very serious about it, but we haven't concluded yet, which we'll do in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e271	The Christian People's Party is very concerned about ensuring good pay and working conditions also for the workers defined as service providers and self-employed. They are not covered by the transitional arrangements but are helped to a certain extent by the so-called Generalisation Act, which imposes tariffs in certain areas of certain industries. The General Public Service Act is an important instrument against social dumping and, in order to ensure compliance with the law, supervisory authorities must be able to sanction offences. The Christian People's Party therefore considers that supervision must be given the possibility of imposing periodic penalty payments in the absence of follow-up to decisions under the Public Procurement Act. Can the Council of State elaborate it a little bit more than he did in the answer to the representative from the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e278	I think I'm going to agree with the description that Mr. Woie Duesund here comes with, and that, as I said, there are heavy arguments for introducing such sanctions. But I ask for an understanding that we are now working on an overall chain of measures, which means that the government has not finally concluded on that question. I note the views of the Christian People's Party in the matter and, of course, take these with me when we're going to "drag it all together" quite quickly in the Government and, as I said, present it to the Storting in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e285	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e290	The representative Dagfinn Sundsbø said that there were different views in this room on the appropriateness of what he called the liberalisation of the opportunities to take work across borders in Europe, and he is right in that, but it is also a little uninteresting, because we have denied ourselves the right to decide whether more Europeans will have the opportunity to work in Norway. That decision is the other one that takes care of us, and we have to deal with it in a sensible way. What this case shows is that what has happened so far is positive for the Norwegian economy. The same is true of reports from Germany – and from the United Kingdom, for that matter. The principle underlying the possibility of taking ashore work throughout the EEA territory and living there, or studying there, or living there as a pensioner, is the principle that you should then be treated as if you were a resident of that country. I think that's a principle that we can all agree on is reasonable. It creates security. It's also what makes it important to avoid social dumping, so avoid someone coming here and working and not being treated as if they were Norwegians in terms of pay and working conditions. That's the basic principle. It is also this principle that – and that is really why I have asked for the floor – those who live in Spain permanently or part of the year benefit from Spanish welfare schemes, such as cannabis. medical visits without self-proportion and some medicinal products without self-proportion. It is therefore interesting that the Progress Party, which has its own party teams among these environments in Spain, here in Norway will have a review of Norwegian welfare schemes, rights which, therefore, Spanish or people from other European countries should benefit from because they work here or live here. What would have been a little interesting then would have been if they had said the same thing to their voters in Spain. But there we hear something else. There we hear that the Spaniards should learn Norwegian, so that they can serve us better if we're down there. So this is the typical Janus face of the Progress Party: one message for the voters who are in Norway and another message for the voters who are in Spain.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e301	I am pleased that this debate has shown that it is relatively broad, not to say very broad, agreement that the transitional arrangements should be phased out. What we're actually discussing is when it's going to happen. It is in the nature of the matter that transitional arrangements are just transitional arrangements. They're never meant to be permanent, and you're actually discussing the time when they're going to wind up. We have come to that conclusion – after carefully assessing it – that the time is ripe to wind up the transitional arrangements, but I respect that others can assess it differently. The government warns that they are already in the revised national budget with a series of measures to combat social dumping, and we have in a way settled down and been safe on would be sufficient. Very well known, the revised national budget will be presented in 14 days, 12 May, and will be dealt with in the Grand Duchy before we split up on 16 June. And when, as early as June, hopefully, we're going to adopt a series of good measures against social dumping, on behalf of the Right, I don't see the very great need to extend a transitional regime that is initially meant to last for three years. That's the paradox I don't quite understand. So in this case, these transitional arrangements, although initially adopted for three new years, can be terminated at any time during the period, and I am pleased. I also registered with interest that the committee leader, Karin Andersen, expressed the desire to wind up the transitional arrangements as soon as possible. Of course, there's a little bit different assessment of when it's going to be possible, and what's going to be in place before it makes sense. It's going to be a political balance, but I look forward to having a good debate on it when that time comes. The experience we have so far shows at least that today's transitional arrangements have been living with, because they have been so liberal and so easy to deal with, even for business. So this isn't completely black and white, but after an overall assessment, we have the country that it made sense to make this decision now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e315	I am not going to use the occasion for an EU debate, although it can be pleasant at any time. But both the representative Svein Roald Hansen and I are then condemned to a consensus that we should be able to govern on the basis of the EEA Agreement, even though each of us has very different thoughts about what this nation should have chosen in its relationship with the European Union. Here we are in common booth. What I wanted to stress by initially taking a little principleal approach to this debate is that I do not want, and the Central Party does not want, to participate in the development of a society, developing schemes, where we rely on labour from other countries as a reserve we are going to fill in, and where we are going to take advantage of it as a priority that the countries of Europe have very different wage and living conditions, which will make it beneficial to import cheap labour into Norway. When we come back to the Services Directive, we will meet that issue to the full. Fortunately, we do not meet it to the full in this matter. I am very pleased that the Government has been so confident that we will have measures in place to ensure equivalent working and salary conditions with Norwegian workers for those who come to Norway and take up work here, and that we will have measures to combat social dumping that will allow us to have a system to also clarify what needs to be done. I think the government is handling this matter in a good way, is happy that we are continuing the transitional arrangements until we have safe conditions in place, and does not believe that this is a 14-day issue. Because here, too, there is talk of knowing that systems are being complied with in the actual situation in the workplace, and there is unfortunately no reason to be impressed by the willingness of individuals to comply with the legislation that is in place so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e324	I think that's reason to remind us first of all that social dumping in Norwegian working life was nothing that came with the Poles. There's been a trend in working life, a trend that's going to be there if we don't have mechanisms that keep systems and morals in place. That's what I think it's important to say. The anxiety expresses a little surprise at the fact that even SV goes in to continue the transitional arrangements. This is probably due to the fact that Engeset was not present when we discussed this matter the previous time. The SV was very skeptical to introduce the transitional arrangements at the time, precisely because we were afraid it might appear discriminatory. But at the same time, we were very concerned that we should ensure Norwegian pay and working conditions, both because we should not exploit people, and because – as I said in my main post in the first place – this is the support of our society for a good society to be in. And we can't tear that down. So we were skeptical that time, but so it was necessary. We want, quite correctly, to liquidate these arrangements as soon as possible. But when we don't do that now, the government's going to submit measures in revised form, it's because those measures are not in place. These measures must be in place, and we must see that they actually work. I would therefore encourage anxiety to be very positive when those measures come, and also to be positive to instruments that actually work, because it is necessary to be. You don't have to take the attitude that this works out enough of itself, because we know it doesn't. Then we know that people are being exploited. We know that it's going to do something about both pay and working conditions in Norway in the long term, and we know that it's doing something about attitudes and morals across society. And it's unfortunately, based on the messages I get, already well started. That's why it's also very important that we don't, to put it this way, make a hole where this should be able to escalate more in the meantime, until we have active instruments in place. The call is therefore to the Right: Be positive and open to active instruments that work against social dumping, when they come, then we can quickly get rid of the transitional arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e335	What made me take the floor was Svein Roald Hansen's post, where he directly misinformed Stortinget. Whether it was planned or not, I am not going to decide. It has never been the case that Carl I. Hagen has arranged for Spaniards to learn Norwegian in order to treat sick homes in Spain. This is because if a Norwegian municipality establishes a nursing home in Spain, we will, of course, have Norwegian nurses in the nursing home. It is a matter of having a nursing stay in Spain for three weeks, one month or three months, if that is, so that they can be down there. Of course, it makes sense that an 80-year-old travelling downhill for a short stay of three months has to deal with Norwegian caregivers. Of course, it is going to be cleaning workers and kitchen staff working at the hospital that are Spaniards, and for which no Norwegian training is required. So there are direct errors perceived by Svein Roald Hansen, and I hope he takes this correction with him. Then he is surprised that the Progress Party is presenting proposals on the review of welfare schemes. I think that's a little amazing. It is quite clear that there is a great risk that this will have to change the form, as we do with the work that can come and that has partly come. There is a great risk that we will be under pressure from the welfare systems in Norway that can have major consequences. And I say can have major consequences. Then, of course, it's important to review this. I have to say that I am rather surprised that Svein Roald Hansen can say so bastantly that in Spain the arrangements are not being reviewed in the same way, based on the large visit you have in Spain. It would surprise me if you haven't done it in Spain. At least it would make sense if they did, to see that it should not lead to an attack on their well-being goods. I think it would have been quite natural if the Spanish authorities had the same review that we have in Norway. After all, we have a responsibility to take care of the welfare systems we have for the Norwegian population, in line with what Spain has for its population.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e347	Now we know from experience that there is not much to be done to marvel at the representatives of the Progress Party in this room if you allow yourself to pluck a little away from the inconsistency of their policies. So I didn't say that Carl I. Hagen had said anything, I said that down there you heard that the Spaniards should learn Norwegian in order to take better care of us. I'll hold on to that, that's what we hear. The representative Svendsen avoided the core of what I said, namely that when the members of the Progressive Party are visiting party traps in Torrevieja and elsewhere, do we hear any warnings that they are going to benefit from Spanish welfare schemes, to which they are fully entitled? No, of course not. But here at home you have to hear it. That's the point. The progress party has evolved into a technique to talk to the electorate, and to say what these will hear. And at home, you think a lot of people want to hear that now we have to make sure that no Poles and Spaniards and others come and get Norwegian child welfare, even if they live here and work here and have a right to it. But we're going to have to be able to get out and have the same good things down there. Then you also get to warn the Norwegians not to make use of others, if there's going to be a little bit of context in this. I think the Progress Party needs to go through its own family policy, as was also pointed out in previous speeches, because if you really bring together all the family policy instruments – such as subsidized kindergartens, etc. – in one cash support for the families, we have really made an arrangement that becomes attractive.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e356	I react to the impression created by the Progress Party when talking about the fear that those who come from the new EEA countries are using the welfare systems, which are said to be the reason they are here. With the transitional arrangements we have, these people get paid with Norwegian pay, and they go in full-time positions. That is the requirement for a residence permit. Then they also pay taxes. They are contributors to the Norwegian welfare system. Then it was just to be lacking that they do not get the rights that result from tax payments. I think it's a wonderful attitude to taxpayers being laid down here. So we can do a little bit of an math on this. So we're getting fully educated labour, people of their most working age who, it turns out, really have very little use for these welfare systems. Here, there is a huge net gain – to the extent that you want to start counting on this, a sport that the Progress Party wants to do. We look at it in principle. If you are a member of the community, you also have the right to benefits from the community when you need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e363	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded [[Food, see page 1986]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e379	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose to allow for the replacement of lines of up to five lines after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e388	The issue of care for parents with seriously ill children is an example of the fact that seemingly small cases may have an even greater impact on those affected. The case concerns the support of society to those who care for a seriously ill child and/or child admitted to a health institution. Usually it's parents. In other words, we are talking about people who are in one of the most vulnerable situations you can experience in life. At the same time, the case is an example that despite the good intentions of the legislator, you can't always catch up with everyone who needs support. The case is also an example that reality can change, so that parts of the target group fall outside. That is why the matter is also about our ability to represent those who have chosen us. It is important that we, as politicians, have the ability to listen and be willing to find solutions. I would therefore like to pay tribute to the proposers in this matter. In the social security system, the principle of fair treatment applies. Similar cases shall be treated equally, schemes shall be predictable. In terms of care allowance, this is particularly important. Parents who have more than enough to deal with a situation where the child – or the children, as we have also seen examples of – is seriously ill, and they may not even know what the outcome will be, should avoid spending time and effort to deal with a law that is unclear, avoid spending time and energy on getting the rights that other parents have received, just because they were living elsewhere. In particular, there is injustice in situations where parents from different parts of the country meet in the same hospital and feel that they are being treated differently. The legislation on care allowances has been amended several times, with effect from January of this year at the latest, when the rules on paid benefits were introduced. The first letter of the Council of State to the Committee also states that the guidelines for the practice of the legislation have been drawn up in cooperation with the children's clinic of the Rikshospitale and the leading experts we have. Early-born children are specifically mentioned in these guidelines. Apparently, everything's fine. However, when the Committee carries out consultations on the matter, with the same experts present, together with those involved in the Prematurity Association and representatives of the Children's Medical Association, we are given a different picture. In particular, three aspects were highlighted: the definition of ‘serious disease’ in Sections 9-11 was considered problematic. The compilation of ‘life-threatening or serious disease’ often meant that the concept of ‘serious disease’ was interpreted too strictly. So some fell outside. The condition for hospitalisation in Section 9-10 was also considered to be too strict when the development is otherwise in the direction of less frequent use of such treatments. A third theme was that care allowance under Section 9-10 cannot be given to both parents at once, while society has a general desire for fathers to take a greater share of care. The most serious thing that emerged was that the legislation is very different from health businesses to health enterprises, from social security offices to social security offices, and in some cases also within the same social security offices and the same health establishments. The Paediatric Association has conducted a survey at all children’s departments in Norway and has identified major differences in practice and high levels of frustration among staff. Then we can just imagine the frustration among the parents involved. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee, I would also like to commend the Council of State for its rapid and positive feedback. The Rikstrøgdeverket shall review the guidelines again, in cooperation with the relevant professional communities. An inter-ministerial working group shall consider the matter in the context of other legislation and several measures to facilitate the situation of those who need to combine professional participation and heavier care tasks. This is a field that must always contain elements of judgement and medical judgement. Something else will become too rigid and provide the basis for new frustrations, but it is important to remove unnecessary uncertainty. The fact that more than today will be able to obtain rights with new practices may result in increased costs, but not necessarily. Through the hearing, we were also given a picture of how, in some cases, a search report under Chapter 8 was used to assist certain parents, but this too was subject to different practices. So collectively, for both society and individuals, it's best to form a practice that takes care of those who need it in a good way. In the light of the feedback from the Council of State, the Government Committee shall, as soon as possible, refer the matter back to the Stortinget as a result of the work of the Interministerial Group. The majority therefore recommends that Document No. 8:20 is appended to the minutes. We think it makes sense to go into the issues more closely, so that we do not experience once again that good intentions for fair treatment are undermined by a new, unbridled regulatory framework. The minority has made proposals for concrete decisions here today. That's the opposition's privilege, and I also understand the proposalers' desire to keep the initiative on their own. We would probably do the same thing if we were in the opposition and in the minority. But on the contrary, we agree. The majority therefore recommend the setting up of the Committee and look forward to the feedback of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e414	The size often deals with major issues that are important to most people. Fortunately, this case does not concern so many, but is all the more important for them. Some of the worst people can be exposed to, are the anxiety, grief, despair, and powerlessness that characterizes you when your child becomes seriously ill. These are feelings that I can sign, as I myself many years ago ended up in such a situation. That's the worst thing I've ever been in on. For the sake of both parents' ability and the need to be present, both in order to be able to support each other, to support the sick child and, not least, in the interests of any sibling, it is important that we give this opportunity to parents, in the same line, wherever they live in the country. The Committee has been made aware that there are major differences and uncertainties in the law and the criteria from hospital to hospital, and from social security offices to social security offices. Studies carried out in 12 neonatal wards show that there is a need for clarifications and changes in the law in order to achieve a level playing field throughout Norway. This leads in many cases to great uncertainty and frustration for the parents, an insecurity and frustration I think is completely unnecessary in addition to the concerns and fears the parents are already struggling with. It is also very important to note that it is often the sibling in the picture, the sibling who may not go to kindergarten or school, but who is home with Mom or Dad every day. This is the sibling being put in a very vulnerable situation. The Progress Party is therefore pleased that the Government will now provide a review of the guidelines and the law. We are very concerned about getting a code that takes into account the whole family, when it experiences having an premature child or a seriously ill or injured child. Both the parents, the child and any sibling deserve this. The Party of Advances will therefore, like the Right, clarify the importance of defining the term ‘very serious disease or injury’ equally in all hospitals and that care allowance should be granted to both parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e429	The president asked whether the representative should make a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e432	I'll let the Right get that honor.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e437	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a good presentation, for a thorough examination of the matter in the committee and not least for the positive outcome of the committee. It wasn't obvious. The Minister of Labour and Inclusion was initially negative to the proposal of the Right and considered that the care allowance scheme worked well enough. But in meeting with reality, he has realized that this is not the case, and has chosen to turn around. And it's as never known too late. That's good! It's a good day for parents who have premature and sick children. And it's a good day for professionals, both doctors and nurses. They have fought a fight against a rigid code and against bureaucrats and social security offices. I will today give a special honor to a special father, Boye Kristenstuen, because he had the surplus to put words on his experiences and experiences. He took up the struggle to secure good arrangements and care for other fathers and families who in the future will experience such a situation. And I also want to pay tribute to the pediatricians and nurses at Akershu University Hospital, who have supported the demands of their parents. It's only been six months since I got acquainted with these issues through a look-up in the magazine of Rome. I was not aware that the legislation is so rigid and difficult to interpret and practice. In the light of the experience of parents and professionals, I clearly saw the need for changes and clarifications in the law to ensure equal rights for both parents in caring for early-born and sick children. This is the background for the Right proposal. The law is difficult to interpret and practice in a uniform way. The practice also differs from that of the various child services and local social security offices. Information on the practice shows that the provisions are partly applied more stringently than what was initially the intention of the law. Therefore, amendments are absolutely necessary to ensure a clear and uniform legal framework, so that there is no doubt about how it should be implemented. It will provide security and predictability for all parties, not least the parents. Many fathers have not received any care allowance or other financial support in this situation. They have had to take a vacation, use sick days for the supervision of sick children, self-announcement, or have been diagnosed by their own doctor in order to have the opportunity to be with their premature birth or ill child – and mother. They have found it very problematic to have to circumvent the legislation in this way, but it has been their only opportunity. It can be a great psychological burden for a family to have an premature and ill child. Children often need extra treatment and follow-up over a long time, perhaps several months, and many families have small children at home who also need care. Therefore, it is now necessary to provide for the possibility for parents to be together, to be able to support each other and to share responsibility over such a period of time. They must avoid additional burdens due to rigid legislation. Right-wing opinion is that it is important to have a good, flexible system and opportunities for graduated care, so that there are equal rights for mother and father. The right, therefore, promotes a proposal, together with the Progress Party. We are asking the Government to propose amendments to the legislation on care allowance, which firstly ensures that the expression of the public interest ‘very serious illness or injury’ is defined equally in hospitals throughout the country. It is also appropriate to assess whether the current disease definition is too strict. Secondly, we ask the Government to ensure a real possibility of acknowledgment of care allowance to both parents under the National Social Security Act § 9-11, even when the child is hospitalised. And third, ensure a real possibility of graduated care allowance for both parents. Although the parties to the government do not support the proposal, as the rapporteur also pointed out, I interpret the comments so that they agree with the proposal, and that there is a clear message to the Government about what is the mission of a total increase. It's important for me to clarify this because the government council at the exit point was negative to the changes. The changes proposed with regard to the care allowance scheme are good family policies and there is good equality policy. I look forward to getting the matter back to Stortinget as soon as possible, so that we can make the necessary changes. In conclusion, I refer to the motion that has been put forward in the vote, from the Party of Advancement and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e463	The representative of Sonja Irene Sjøli has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e466	First, I would also like to pay tribute to the rapporteurs, to the rapporteur and to the Council of State. I think this case is a good example of how important it is to be open and listen. I will not go into the details of the matter, it has been done thoroughly by the case rapporteur and the proposer, but I would just like to point out that for the families concerned, good arrangements in this area can be what makes the family related – and that is important. I want to go into how such a case can come up. The proposer said the matter came up because of a notice in the newspaper. It worries me a little bit that a lot of things come up on this basis. We have been working on this matter, and the feedback we have received from the agency shows that not many people have been registered who have complained about this scheme – and therefore it is believed that it works. But the reality is that most of those who have needed this scheme, but have not been used by it, have received a medical report – that is, bypassing the rules and doing well. In such a situation, you do not sit down and write a letter of complaint, so you concentrate on what is most important in life – and try to make it stick together. That is why no complaints are registered. But when you ask the professionals, you're told that this doesn't work well enough. I'm worried that we don't have a system that can catch up on such errors, and that there must be individual items in the newspapers in order for them to be registered in the system. It is a challenge for management. And I don't think it applies just in this area, but I think it's like this in a lot of areas. We need to get an administration that's navigational to find out if things actually work as everyone thinks it should work, that records changes and makes proposals for changes when it's necessary. The second theme that has been addressed in this case, which is also agreed that consideration should be given to changes in the treatment method for some seriously ill children, where parents are also entitled to care allowance. It turns out that the requirement for accommodation may no longer be the most relevant. Before that, the requirement was hospitalisation for eight days. So the treatment methods changed so that you were in a shorter period of time. And now the claim has become hospitalization. It turns out that in the case of some seriously ill children — and the medical situation has not changed — medical treatment is administered outpatiently, not at hospital. But the need for care and care from parents is equally present. Therefore, it is important that we also look at changes in medical developments related to such welfare systems, so that those who need it are actually captured. It's a challenge. It's usually hard to get a government -- and the whole system -- to work like that, but I think it's absolutely necessary that we have systems that sail catch things that don't work anymore, or that don't work according to purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e477	The representatives from the Right address an important theme for families in a very vulnerable situation. It is a great burden for a family to have an premature child, and a sick child, who needs extra treatment and follow-up over a long period of time. The representative of the Prematurary Association said at the hearing that feelings go into the mountain- and valley-path in line with what happens to the newborn. It can fluctuate quickly — from hope to great complications. Also the mother of that premature can get sick, and then it is extra important that father is present and can follow along. This is a situation where it is anyway important that both parents do the same experiences and share the same experiences. In such a situation, it is not right that Father should take a vacation in order to be present at the hospital. The Christian People's Party is pleased that a collective committee so clearly stresses that care can be given to both parents, according to paragraphs 9–11 of the People's Security Act. We also believe that it is right that an individual assessment based on medical judgement is carried out. The rapporteur has presented the matter in a tidy manner, supported by the Christian People's Party. I also think there is reason to commend the Council of State for having turned the case around, after we had it at the hearing. It is unreasonable that there should be different practices from health businesses to health businesses and from social security offices to social security offices when interpreting current legislation. Paragraphs 9–11 of the Swedish Social Security Act provide for the right to care when children under the age of 18 are suffering from a life-threatening or other very serious illness or injury. The term ‘life-threatening’ has been used more stringently than the intention of the law. It is positive that one will now review the guidelines in cooperation with the professional community in question, so that one is now getting more similar practices. As one now needs fewer and shorter submissions, it is important that one also looks at the condition in Sections 9-10, on accommodation, as the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs writes in his letter of 24 March this year. Even if today's Document No. Eight proposals address the situation for both parents with regard to care allowance when you have premature or ill children, I would remind you that both parents are also entitled to care allowance. From 1 July 2005, parents with chronically ill or disabled children were entitled to an additional 10 days of benefit per year. a parent for each chronically ill or disabled child. This can be a good help if you need to be at home after hospitalization. High disease load families shall also be given priority when granting nursery facilities. The Christian People's Party looks forward to the outcome of the work of the inter-ministerial working group to assess strategies and measures to combine family participation with care for nursing and caring family members.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e498	A good deal of work has been done in this matter, both from the proposers, from the case rapporteur and from the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs. This makes this case come out positively, and we'll be happy for that. As long as the provisions on the right to care for early-born and sick children are included in our legislation, we must also expect the law to be practiced in the same way as in hospitals throughout the country. So it hasn't been like that. We often experience that the practice of state law and regulation is strongly influenced by sectoral authorities. Obviously, government management of hospitals has not given more similar practice in this area of enforcing patients’ and relatives’ rights. Father’s right to take part in the care of his sick child is not a question suitable for discretionary judgements based on different circumstances around the country. Here's the thing about putting in place a practice of the law that's the way we, the legislators, have thought about it. Similar cases shall be treated in the same way as possible, irrespective of the place of residence of the family. I am pleased that the Minister of Labour and Inclusion in his letter to the Committee says that the Swedish National Agency has been given a mandate to go through the rules on the allocation of care allowances under the Law on Social Security, so that the practice becomes more consistent with the intention of the law and the rules so clear that we avoid discrimination in other similar cases. It is true, as the Council of State says, that medical judgement still needs to be exercised in the practice of the law, but the objective is that similar cases should be treated equally and that this should be better addressed. There is also reason to look at the conditions of hospitalisation in order to receive care allowance. New technology combined with pressure to get patients out as quickly as possible, often means that children will need extensive supervision and care at home. It is important that the law relating to parents’ rights to care is not tightened because health care conditions have changed over time. The rules must be adapted to the realities of the day. Governments are alerting an assessment of the need for a legislative change. The law must be amended if necessary in order not to impair the ability of both parents to take part in the care of their sick children. Although there is a minority proposal in this case, I feel that this is a matter where the Committee and the Government agree. That's what's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e514	First, I would like to thank the proposers for highlighting a problem that is perceived as pointless and unfair for parents who need care. When a family has a sick and premature child, this puts a heavy strain on the family. The intention of caregivers is to help families in a difficult situation. This Document No The 8 proposal shows that the legislation for receiving care allowance can be interpreted and thus practised differently between the country’s hospitals. A number of stakeholder organisations and health institutions have made the Committee aware that the current legislation is difficult to interpret, and therefore different practices have been established. The left believes that it is very important that father and mother be equated when one comes into a situation where one has to take advantage of the offer of care. The fact that the money has fallen largely to mother gives father signals that he is not considered equally equivalent in relation to the care of the child. We must not give such signals. In addition, there is a trust aspect to health and social security here that we do not get away from. Trusting in the system to help the child and the family in such a situation is important. But when one has to fight the system to get care money to take care of his sick child and the rest of the family, a lot of trust is lost, and the situation becomes much more difficult to deal with. During the committee's examination of the case, we have received positive feedback from the Government that it will ask the Swedish Government to review today's guidelines to make improvements, so that both father and mother are satisfied with care money – and then come back to Stortinget with proposals for any legislative changes, if necessary. The Left hopes that the Government, in consultation with the Rikstrøgdeverket, will arrive at a solution as soon as possible, so that a clear policy is developed to give families with premature births and sick children the right to care.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e529	In this case, in my opinion, there is no real political disagreement. Everyone agrees and agrees that the rights of parents with premature and sick children should be respected. As demonstrated by my letter to the Labour and Social Committee of 22 February of this year, the amendments to the private bill are already covered by today's legislation. The problems that some people experience in these situations are mainly related to the practice of the guidelines, which may vary, as it turns out, from hospital to hospital. The Ministry has therefore asked the Rikstrygdeverket in a letter dated 11 April to review the guidelines in consultation with the relevant professional communities. I am informed that the Rikstrøgdeverket has already started the preparations for such a review. With regard to the requirement to apply to a health institution for a care allowance under Section 9-10, I am aware that this is an unfair condition, as it will often be due to coincidences as to whether the child has had a status as an inmate or not. I therefore understand the situation of my parents and will consider any change. However, I would like to make it clear that this rule is not mentioned in the bill or in the vote. The issue has been raised at the hearing and is mentioned in the Committee’s letter of 20 March 2006. I would also like to refer to my letter to the Committee of 24 March 2006, which states that an inter-ministerial working group assesses strategies and measures to combine professional participation with care for caring and caring family members. The Working Party will review Chapter 9 of the Law on Social Security.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e540	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e543	The admission of children to hospitals is often perceived as a burden both for children and for parents – almost regardless of the disease picture. The presence of parents is very important. This is particularly the case when tests are to be carried out and samples are to be taken. In addition, the presence of parents means a necessary relief for hospital staff. In addition, the child will often be discharged before it is completely healthy, and it may be important that parents have a good understanding of the disease picture and of the experiences that the child has had along the way. Does the Council agree that the presence of parents is important and necessary for all parties, almost independently of the severity of the disease, and will he consider this when considering the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e550	I think this is very demanding – to stand here and say that both parents' presence is necessary, regardless of what the disease is about. I think there are examples where children are admitted to hospital one night or two, and where it must be called acceptable whether society contributes with schemes that allow at least one of the parents to be present and support the child in the situation it is in. I don't want to say now – in a line change – that we are going to set up the schemes under Section 9 of the People's Security Act in such a way that no matter what is the starting point of the hospitalisation, it is to be arranged so that both parents can be present.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e557	I am pleased that the Council of State is in favour of making the changes that are necessary to meet what is intended: to meet the needs of families. It has gradually been agreed that today's care allowance system does not take into account the whole family. In practice, mother gets foster money. As I was in my post, Father must use other opportunities to be with mother and child. It is an unsustainable situation that they have to circumvent the legislation. Like both Karin Andersen and I, it is not sustainable that it is only when things come up in the press that we politicians often get the insight that a regulation does not work well enough. My question is this: what will the Council of State do to ensure that legislation is tested and evaluated, so that we can ensure that the laws and regulations adopted here in Stortinget function according to the intention and, as in this case, that parents and children receive the care they need?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e568	Let me first say that I am glad that I will be allowed to be the Council of State that cleans up something that could have been cleaned up a long time ago – but better late than never. Now we're going to deal with this. The situation with uncertainty about care money is not something that has arisen after the government change, but we are now taking it up and are going to clean it up. Secondly, I would like to say that there is no doubt that the representative here points out is important. It is important that we from the department – and the Rikstrøgdeverket – be responsive to how our legislation is practised. But I think we're going to be in the situation that somehow we're going to discover individual things, and then we're going to get the moment of truth for law and regulation. I think we have to try to work in alternative ways, but we also have to be very responsive to these examples when they first come up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e579	Social security gives care to the caregiver of children enrolled in institutions. The care allowance will be provided at the earliest from day 8, calculated from the deposit. Today’s medical and technological developments are leading to a reduction in hospitalisation, thus increasing the need for home follow-up. As a result, many do not fulfil the right to care allowance. In the light of new experience, I would like to ask the Council of State whether he believes that there might be reason to reconsider these rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e586	The answer to that is yes. As far as I remember, this was among the issues we were also working on in the last four years, when I had the pleasure of sitting on the Social Committee together with the representative Woie Duesund. As I also said in my post from the pulpit here now, I've been aware, and I'm aware that this is a problem issue. We see a medical development that is moving towards increasing and complicated interventions being outpatient. Often it is not about an accommodation at all. It creates a new situation that we have to review. But I have to say it this way: there's nothing that we're doing here that doesn't cost anything. So we have to see it in a context. It is not without reason to the previous government that the legislation should be as it is in this area. But we're going to review it, look at it. And then I feel confident that action from Stortinget will be requested, and I will add that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e593	No more words have been asked for a line. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 1986]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e611	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following his intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President sees it as a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e620	One of the major challenges in the welfare community is those that fall outside – those who do not take part in the increase in wealth that the majority has. If we put together those who are disabled, those who are sick and who are sick at all times, those who are rehabilitating and rehabilitation, as well as those who are unemployed, we have at all times hundreds of thousands standing on the sidelines. In addition, if we include those who involuntarily have to take up part-time jobs, the number will be even higher. This is why one of the major challenges is getting more inclusive work. More people have to be on the inside, not on the outside and look at the others. It's a big challenge to avoid an equal increase in the number of unearned people that we've had in recent years. It seems that there is broad political consensus about it, which both the previous government and the current government have focused on. This is why, in recent years, different schemes have also been introduced to activate more people and to avoid more people becoming passive beneficiaries. The unearned test scheme as a wage subsidy is one such scheme. The scheme assumes that the unretired person receives normal pay from the employer, while the employer receives a disability pension as a compensation of employees from the authorities. Since the experiment was launched in five counties last year, ECON has evaluated the scheme on behalf of the Ministry. There is no doubt that there are many good examples of – and experience with – the scheme so far, but there are also some challenges, as the evaluation so far shows. For this reason, the disability pension scheme as a wage subsidy and many other instruments – I stress it – will be assessed when the Stortinget to the autumn is going to start working on the paper on work, well-being and inclusion in an overall context. In particular, there are two things about the payroll scheme that you have to look at. It is whether those who have been granted a disability pension after 1 January 2004 are to be covered by the scheme and whether those who have a fixed-term disability benefit are also to be covered by the scheme. The third is whether it should have a larger geographical scope, which would be natural. None of the first two groups I mentioned are currently covered by the scheme. The proposers say that the Government has a far too passive attitude, because one cannot extend the regime to the groups I just mentioned, and to a geographically larger area. I have to say that – to say it in a nice way – is quite eloquent. One of the proposers was still a member of the government that resigned in October and introduced the whole scheme – with the limitations it has – last year. So it was not obvious last autumn that these groups were to be included in the scheme, but when the proposers presented the proposal four to five months after the government change, it was quite obvious that these groups had to be included. At the end of the day, there is no rejection of the proposal to extend the disability pension scheme as a wage subsidy, but the majority – including two of the three previous government parties – will look at the proposal in a wider context when the welfare notification comes to the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e639	The path to improved economy, participation in society, inclusion and activity goes very much through work. The growing number of disabled people is a challenge both for society and for the individual underprivileged. This is the political consensus on it. This is why some measures have also been put in place to give this opportunity to disabled people who want to try out in the labour market. And that's good. The previous government introduced a pilot scheme in which disability benefits could be used as wage subsidies. Both the social partners and several organisations had called for such a scheme. Five counties joined the scheme, and this supported the Progress Party. Preliminary signals say that the plan has been used to a small extent and the ECON concludes that it is too early to say anything about the effect of the plan. The party has received signals from people who are frustrated and irritated because they are not allowed to use the scheme, either because they live in a wrong state, or because they were granted disability benefit after 1 January 2004. The Progress Party therefore considers that there should be no obstacle to opening up the same offer already in the revised national budget to all those who would like to use it. The Progress Party has also reported that the disadvantaged with very low residual working capacity meet prejudices and counter-representations against the fact that they will actually use this residual working capacity. They're said to be met with statements like, "You want to doubt the 20 percent!" They themselves believe that, despite the fact that the vacancy fraction is very low, it is perceived as the point of light in life. The need to get up and out, meet good colleagues, get up-to-date and belong to the community that a job provides is very important to them, and they want an acceptance and a recognition that they are doing the job – if only 20 pst. They request that the use of their residual working capacity be regarded as an obligation and a right. I hope the Storting will give them this. With this, I will address the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e652	The representative of Kari Kjenaas Kjos has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e655	There has been a strong increase in the number of persons who have been unemployed for over a year, from nearly 250 000 in 1997 to more than 315,000 in 2005. It goes without saying that this is a huge challenge in creating a more inclusive working life, and it requires testing new instruments. Many dissatisfied people express their desire for a new chance to get back to work. Successful reactivation could bring great socio-economic benefits. But more importantly, it's wasted human resources when people who don't want to be insured at all but want a job don't get a chance to do it. In the Right’s view, all social security schemes should encourage and help people to get into work, not least because it means a great deal to the self-respect of the individual disadvantaged person to have a new chance of moving from passiveness to participation, inclusion and activity. This is why the government of Bondevik II introduced a new experimental scheme in which the disability benefit is used as a wage subsidy. By distorting the payment of passive social benefits against the use of active measures, the disability benefit may be included on detailed terms as a pay subsidy to employers who employ unemployed persons who wish to try out in the labour market. The aim of the scheme is to get more disadvantaged people back to work. The unemployed person is paid normal wages in line with other employees in the establishment. The duration of the measure shall not exceed five years. During this period, the employee has a resting pension right, which means that he or she can get the disability benefit back if the job attempt fails. And this is important. Both the social partners and the user organisations of the disabled have requested such a scheme. The scheme lowers the threshold for employers to try out the unemployed person in work, while making it easier for the unemployed to test their ability to work. An increased return from disability to work will over time reduce government expenditure to disability. The experiment was launched in 2005 in the counties of Hedmark, Rogaland, Süd-Trøndelag, Telemark and Troms. I have recorded that the Council of State now determines that he will look at today's reactivation schemes to the labour market, including an extension of this scheme, in the context of the paper on work, welfare and inclusion, which will be presented in autumn 2006. That's good. It may well be a bit in the nature of the matter that the person who is in government at all times and is responsible for the state council is more inclined to promote the proposals than to accept that there will be results as a result of proposals promoted by the opposition. It's all right in itself, but I think with the results we already have, and with the weaknesses we see in the system, it's too passive not already now to fix what can make it much better. It is a fact that the disability test scheme as a wage subsidy has given a number of people a new opportunity to try out the labour market, and that this means a great deal to the quality of life and self-respect of the individual. I see no good reason why the disabled in 14 of the country's counties should be denied this possibility of participation, inclusion and activity. In the media, only a few people are currently using the disability benefit scheme as a wage subsidy. However, it does not provide a basis for concluding that the scheme has failed. Firstly, it is only a year since the scheme was introduced, and secondly, there are signs that the scheme currently has restrictions that make it impossible for large groups of disabled people to participate, even if they are motivated to do so. Local social security offices report examples of the fact that the disabled have wanted to work on disability benefits as wage subsidies, but they have fallen out of the scheme because they have had their disability benefits since 1 January 2004. With today's provisions, these will be permanently excluded from the scheme. Therefore, in the proposal under consideration here today, the Right has been asked to consider whether the scheme can be extended to those who have received disability benefit since 1 January 2004. For example, today's restriction involves: that no person with a temporary unearned salary can participate in the compensation of employees scheme. This is very unfortunate in a situation where, according to Aetat, only 470 out of well over 30,000 recipients of temporary unpaid pay per year. are currently taking labour market measures. This shows that only a few are followed up in line with Storting’s intention at the time of the introduction of the temporary zero-tire system. On this basis, I must say that I am disappointed that the Government is not willing to consider whether the disability benefit scheme as a wage subsidy can be extended already in ours. An extension of the scheme would have been a very positive signal to the many who have a strong desire to try out work and activity, and it is a pity that the Government does not want to give such a signal now.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e681	I believe that there have been great expectations of the disability benefit scheme as a wage subsidy, which has now been a pilot scheme for quite a short time. The ECON report that shows that there are many assumptions that have not been in place to achieve this, we need to take them seriously. That is why the criticism that comes from the Right today is quite amazing. It is the government with which the Right was in charge, which has provided the leadership for this scheme. Experience gained from the ECON report needs to be taken seriously and seen in a wider context. There is no reason to say that we should extend the scheme as it is today, when so many other assumptions must be in place for it to succeed. Some of the things the previous government put forward were restrictions on when you had had a disability, and that it should not be time-limited disability. It may be that if you've been on disability for a long time, it's more difficult to get back to work than if you've gone for a short time. It may be that if you are granted a temporary disability benefit, you are in a situation where active measures could be more appropriate to get out of work. But I record that the previous government didn't think it was right. Then we actually need to go through this properly in relation to the research results that are now in place. I want to say a little about it, because I think it's important – not only if we're going to succeed in getting more of those who are now out of work, but also others who are out of work. These research results point to important things, they point out that very many actually have a lack of competence in relation to the working life to which they are going. There is neither obligation nor opportunity to do so if you actually lack the competence to do so. Few of those who live on disability benefits in particular have good advice or are able to take the risk by taking up study loans to obtain the kind of competence they need. Some people might be in this situation, but there'll be a few. Of course, if you're serious about this, you have to have a system that ensures the skills that the labour market is asking for. You don't get a job if you don't want the skills you have. It also appears that some have health problems that are initially difficult to combine with work. Today you have a debate where it sounds like most of the people who are dissatisfied, really shouldn't have been and really aren't very sick. It is enough that there are many who want to work, but the majority of them have health problems, which are why they have had disability. It makes it difficult, at least if it's not a very small part you combine with work. The requested SV shall be possible. But it requires something more than lifting a index finger and saying yes, now it is allowed. Many point out that economics can be a problem. Of course, if you lose money on working, it's hard. It is also a theme that needs to be considered in the context of the autumn survey — how to combine different types of benefits and social security with work in a way that pays off to work. There are several schemes today that are such that if you have a low basis for calculation of the benefit or social security initially, you can get into a situation very quickly where a small amount of work leads to a large financial loss. Those traps we have to get rid of. So a little bit to the proposal of the Progress Party in the setting. There they say quite cautiously that all social security recipients should be obliged to participate with the remaining working capacity. In any case, I would first like to clarify the question of «all social security and social security recipients»: does it also mean the age pensioners of the country? It might look like this in the proposal, but I'm assuming that maybe that's not the case. I also ask then: how should this duty be exercised, if there is not a labour market in which jobs are available and willing to accept this labour force? Does that mean that people, because they don't get a job, should also be without income?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e705	In Norway, between 600 000 and 700000 persons of pre-employment age are currently out of work and receive social security, rehabilitation, re-employment or sick pay. There is little doubt that, among all these people, there are several people who can participate in the world of work in some way. We need to facilitate the use of the reserve of labour that is hidden within this group. However, let me make it clear that the Christian People's Party believes that the Norwegian welfare society, through various social insurance schemes, should provide employment with a meaningful and worthwhile life. We do not in any way want to add to the burden for those who, for various health reasons, do not have the opportunity to participate in the labour market. But we are sure that there are several who have the potential to go from passive social benefits to active professional participation. We want it to be organised so that these can be returned to professional activity. The reason for this is two-part: Firstly, it is important for us in the Christian People's Party to motivate for work, because we believe that work and activity will contribute to better quality of life for many. Having a job means a lot to self-esteem, to social contact, and not least it matters to the economy. Secondly, it is a fact that transition from social security to work is a good social economy. It is therefore wise to focus on measures to make the way back to work easier and less risky. The Christian People's Party shares the intentions of the proposers. We are impatient to get more from social security to work. The testing scheme currently in place in five of the counties of the country, where disability benefits are used as wage subsidies, was initiated by the Bondevik II Government and was intended to be extended to become a nationwide scheme. This is still the wish of the Christian People's Party. Now that we have chosen to support the Government's recommendation to wait to make the scheme nationwide, it is because we see that the evaluation of the trial scheme may indicate that certain changes are being made to the terms and incentives for the use of the scheme. We have also noticed that the Minister of Labour and Inclusion, in a letter to the Committee, has referred to the scheme of disability pensions as a salary subsidy in a positive and appropriate way, and expects, in the light of the fact that the Government for the autumn is promoting proposals for the Storting to make the scheme permanent and nationwide. For us in the Christian People's Party, it is also important that the scheme also applies to those who have received a disability pension after 1 January 2004. The government has announced a major issue for the fall of the instrument in the new labour and welfare management. What we're talking about here, the return of people to work, is the very core of the work of the new establishment. It is very important that the Storting fully addresses this and helps to find coherent and lasting solutions to the challenges of social security as the main source of income for every five persons in pre-employment in Norway. We in the Christian People's Party look forward to the Government's proposals in this area, and aim to become a constructive and challenging partner.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e731	We have a well-being management in strong change. Later in the spring, we will deal with the Labour and Welfare Administration Act. Until the fall, the Minister of Labour and Inclusion has announced that we are receiving the paper on work, well-being and inclusion. The aim of the red-green majority is to create welfare schemes that eliminate as much of the thresholds that keep people out of work. I understand that there is a broad consensus on such a policy in Stortinget. The attempt to use disability pension as a wage subsidy was considered an important step towards making working life more accessible. So we must note that the system has not had the effect we thought and hoped. The evaluation says a good deal about the reasons for it: the potential for work activity among people with disabilities is lower than we thought. It is a time-consuming process to motivate people who have been out of work for a long time to apply back. Those who are motivated to work often do not have the necessary skills, and many people need a return course. So we don't have a working life that is necessarily open to this group, even though many people may be motivated to get into it. The ambitions are the same between the majority and the minority in this case. We want to ensure more access to the labour market and are positive about the development and continuation of the disability benefit scheme as a wage subsidy. I do not believe that the Advance Party and the Right's desire to extend the scheme is already a particularly constructive contribution to ensuring job opportunities for more people. The evaluation that has been carried out suggests that more time is needed to find the good measures to ensure that both employers and the unemployed dare to enter the scheme and dare to move on. Then the Progress Party proposes the obligation for all social security and social security beneficiaries to participate in the working life with the residual working capacity they may have. This is not an approach that contributes to securing the work of the welfare policy that we of the Centre Party emphasise. Making disability pensioners ‘the culprits’ — because that’s what you do — because so many people are out of work is both over-simplified and ugly stigmatisation. We do not have a working life that is sufficiently flexible and open to accept all those who have the ability to work and want to provide, or – and we have to take responsibility for – public schemes that are adequately adapted to a more inclusive working life. The Council of State letter to the Labour and Social Committee attached to the nomination states that it is «an intention to propose a country-wide scheme for unemployees who will try to work in the labour market». It is also said that it will be considered to remove the restrictions associated with the granting of the disability pension. I am quite sure that we are well served to take the time to find out the different aspects of the matter, and that we get this before the Storting goes on with this system. But that we should go on, and that the ambitions here should be clear and clear, and that the Minister of Labour and Inclusion knows that he has us in his back, there should be no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e746	Norway spends over 100 billion dollars a year on social security for people of pre-employment age. That's more than we spend on all Norwegian pensioners together. Social security expenditure is increasing violently every year, and every five persons of working age have social security as their main source of income. There are now more than 300,000 people who are dissatisfied. This means that we have more disabled people than industrial workers in Norway. At least as many are away from work, either because they have sick pay, are unemployed, are reintroducing or have social welfare benefits. This makes it visible that we do not have the power to prevent an increasing number of people from falling out of work and becoming social welfare recipients. More people in work and less on social benefits are absolutely essential in order for us to be able to maintain our welfare systems in the future. This requires reforms of the current welfare state. The disability benefit system needs to be reformed in order to reduce the strong growth in the number of disabled people. When Bondevik II introduced disability benefits as a wage subsidy, it was an action to get people back to work, because we know that working means as much to the disabled as to others. The proposers will also have access to this scheme by persons who have been granted disability benefits after 1 January 2004. This is the left positive to. Under today's provisions, only those who were disabled before 1 January 2004 have the right to claim disability benefit as a salary supplement. Exclusion of some from the scheme for this reason does not accept the Left. The aim of disability benefit as a wage subsidy is to get the most back to work through follow-up during the benefit period. In this respect, the importance of social inclusion is crucial, as we know that long-term unemployment makes it considerably more difficult to return to work. In order for people who are disqualified to have more opportunities to get out of work, it is essential that there is a labour market that is willing to hire them. We can make as fine arrangements for the disabled as we can and will, but there is not much to be in such schemes if there is no labour market to receive them. Aetat must therefore focus much more on coming into contact with enterprises that are willing to hire disabled people, and the Government must provide employers who are willing to hire disabled people with better incentives than the current system provides. Many employers are reluctant to hire unemployed people, because the red tape around employment is heavy and the relationship between Aetat and the employer can be difficult. The representative Sundsbø pointed at a significant moment, namely that we must have a working life that is capable of accepting. The left agrees that a greater focus must be placed on contacting potential employers who can provide the disadvantaged job offers. This, together with making a revised version of the pilot scheme with disability benefits as wage subsidies nationwide and also applicable to those who have received disability pension after 1 January 2004, is a good measure, which can lead to more people receiving social security from work. The left is positive to look at this scheme, but believes that the natural context will be to return to the welfare message coming to the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e764	The government has already notified in St. Prp. No 1 Appendix No 1 that it wanted to make it easier to combine work and social security and that it wanted to introduce a system of disability benefits as a wage subsidy in all Member States. I am primarily concerned about having appropriate tools for disability pensioners who want to try out in the workplace. Since the 1990s, several measures have been taken to bring more disability pensioners back to work. The non-pension scheme as a salary subsidy was launched in 2005 in five sample groups: Hedmark, Rogaland, Süd-Trøndelag, Telemark and Troms. Then it is important to note that in the other states of the country there is another attempt at wage subsidies in reactivation of disability pensioners in ordinary activities, where an ordinary wage subsidy is provided, while applying specific rules for the income testing of disability pension against labour income. In the case of persons who receive temporary unpaid pay and therefore are unable to benefit from the two pilot schemes, they may make use of most other labour market measures administered by Aetat, including wage subsidies. The unearned pension attempt as a pay supplement has been a high priority, but for various reasons it has proved more difficult than expected to recruit unearthed pensioners for the experiment. Therefore, neither the disability pension scheme as a wage subsidy nor the wage subsidy scheme through the reactivation of disability pensioners has gained the amount initially hoped for. I therefore want to take the time to make a thorough review of all the different reactivation instruments. I will start from ECON’s analyses and look at all the tools to get disability pensioners working in conjunction with the work on the paper on work, well-being and inclusion to be provided in the autumn of 2006. I would like, among other things: consider whether the definition of the target population for the schemes makes sense, and in particular whether those who have been granted temporary disability benefit or disability pension after 1 January 2004 should also be covered by the scheme. But I also want to look at the entire arrangement. Until this review has been carried out, I will continue the work being done in the context of the two trials on disability pensions, such as wage subsidies and wage subsidies, in the reactivation of disability pensioners. I intend to make proposals for a nationwide scheme for disability pensioners who will try their way into working life. However, I do not see it as appropriate to do so until we have received a more comprehensive review of all aspects of the current arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e779	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e782	One of the main obstacles to getting people out of work back to work is the time each person has been out of work. Many have been out of work for a long time before being offered a place for action, and that is the main reason why the proportion of drug use in Norway is as low as 20pst. People with disabilities have often been out of work for many years. The possibility of returning to work is present, and therefore it is important to be able to use the social security as a wage subsidy. However, it may be even more important to ensure that people who have fallen out of work for various reasons are caught up at the earliest opportunity and given the necessary assistance. What measures will the Council of State take to make the path from unemployment and inactivity to work, activity and social contact shorter than it is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e789	This is a very comprehensive question, so I think I have to limit myself to saying that I basically agree with the questioner in describing the challenge. A figure that I often use to illustrate this is that if you look at those who have been diagnosed in Norway continuously for one year — that’s the early phase in any longer run — it’s only 17 pst. that will ever come back to work. And then we start the recycling and rehabilitation processes. The chance of success then is very small. That is why the theme on which Woie Duesund is here will be a major theme of the big news coming in the harvest. There we will review all the arrangements, both in order to make them work more efficiently, to simplify them, so that we can spend more time in NAV for user-oriented work and less for administrative work, and not least how we can get started at the earliest opportunity on the re-routing process.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e796	I am pleased that the debate has shown that there is a very broad political consensus to do what we can to help more people get from social security to work. This proposal is a statement that we are impatient, because there is an urgent need for action that works. The evaluation has shown that the pilot scheme had some weaknesses. We want to correct these weaknesses as quickly as possible. I understand that the Council of State needs to investigate, evaluate, think through, have an overall review, as it is said, but the proposal on our part is an expression that we are starting to become impatient, and that we are waiting anxiously for proposals. That is why I am pleased that the Council of State confirms here today that he will make such a proposal for the harvest. That's good. But then I have a question to the Council of State now: The system of temporary unpaid pay may seem to have evolved into a kind of waiting station for permanent unpaid pay. What will the Council of State do to help prevent this from happening in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e805	I choose to express joy in expressing the impatience shown by the Right in this matter, because then we have common positions. Let me first say that had what we are now working on in connection with this scheme of disability benefits as wage subsidies, only concerned the geographical area and whether you have had disability benefits from before or after 1 January 2004, you could have seen a fairly rapid clarification in the form of suggestions from my side. But the point is that I think you have to look at the whole system. I believe that the scheme has too many limitations as a scheme, not in relation to geography and years, but as an instrument and how it works in sum. That's why I need some more time. Finally, I would just like to say that the relationship with those with temporary unpaid pay will also be a main theme of the message coming in the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e814	It was so much affected both by me and by the representative Sundsbø that we must have a working life that accepts and has the opportunity to accept the disabled. It is then obvious to ask: What incentives can the Council of State consider in relation to employers who are more likely to give rise to disembarkation? I believe that this is one of the biggest bottlenecks. I understand, of course, that the Council of State cannot give a detailed answer to this, but has he considered the extent to which it is possible to open incentives for employers who are willing to take in the underprivileged?
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e819	I believe in itself that there are quite strong incentives in the system we are now discussing, and for which it is therefore proposed to expand the geographical area. But what I think, and as the ECON material also shows, is that some employers are concerned because the scheme, after all, has a time limit. Many employers would say that well, it's okay that we get very good grants in the start-up phase, but what if it's been a few years? Therefore, the question of whether we need such a time limit, is one of the issues we are considering in connection with this message, and whether we should be so offensive on this issue that we consider removing the number of years one can go on the scheme. But it is clear that the dangers with it again, and we must therefore consider, are that we can then get into a situation where we get this system as a bit of a powerful exclusion mechanism compared to the ordinary labour market. That's why we need some time to evaluate it. But we're looking for arrangements with stronger incentives.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e824	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e829	I have received a direct question from the representative Karin Andersen. I think this might be quite clear in our proposal, because we're writing that it should be based on the degree of performance. And the whole thing applies to the disabled, so I hope there's no misunderstanding. We don't intend to force any minimum pensioners into work. Question no. 2 that I got went on this with how to perform your obligation if the employer is not willing to give you the opportunity. Then my claim is that at least society must first accept that they want to use their residual working capacity. Some say that they have good employers who have helped them to cope all the way as the disease has made them less and less active, while others have experienced a clear tendency to be pressured out of the labour market, despite the fact that they feel that they could contribute. Then we have to do something about the attitudes that society has. If we are to be able to change these attitudes, at least the Storting should take the lead and show its position, show that exclusion from the labour market is not acceptable. It is not acceptable for society and at least it is not acceptable for the individual concerned. The use of residual working capacity shall not need to be perceived as an alms or a heating room, but as an obligation and a right.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e836	Today's debate has in many ways been about time and geography, before and after a given date and in which part of the country we are going to live. It addresses issues related to temporary disability, but what has been the weakness, which fortunately has been pointed out in ECON's analysis, is that it may not be as easy as saying that someone should be allowed to take money with him for a given period of time and go out and work. The background that people are in the situation they are, with dissatisfaction, is that they actually have some kind of disease or injury that makes them unable to be in normal working life. In fact, it is a very thorough assessment that underlies the situation, both that the condition should be defined as permanent – not temporary but permanent – and that it should be comprehensive, so that there is no simple solution. Fortunately, we are told to wait, to look at the whole human being, and first to make an overall assessment. In fact, this is not about bringing the money with you and taking it with you to the employer, because you are just as sick, injured or weak when you get there anyway, and it is a temporary solution. It's about rehabilitating people, about schooling people, it's about creating an organized society, about providing help, about providing help, it's about treating people when we can treat, and then it's about respecting, because that's the respect you need. That's why it's good to know that for once we have to look at the whole apparatus that we have at our disposal, we have to evaluate how we can get them into the world of work. You talk about they don't have motivation, and they didn't have the same size. No, it's not that big, because it's a reason they got there. There has not been a systematic effort to motivate them to believe in themselves; there has not been a build-up of competence when they have been dissatisfied, they may not have changed from the time they were granted a disability benefit until they were re-assessed. That's why it might not be so strange that society didn't find so many people who wanted to work, or could work, because society has actually assessed it so that they were out of the scope to do full effort. That's what the issues are. So if we're going to have people back to work, we have to do something with people and with society, not with the dates and the geography for where they're going to be allowed to apply. Luckily, we have to look at the whole human being. We first have to evaluate it for the autumn, when we get all the information in.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e848	I think there's reason to notice the last speaker's posts. That is why today's proposals of the Progress Party are also so wonderful. Now, at least the clarification has been made in relation to the age pensioners. But if you get a 50 pst degree. and get a disability benefit of 50 pst., you are expected to work or live by 50 pst. Disadvantage today? It's completely impossible to understand what this means if there's not going to be any cut in the benefits based on it. It is therefore still believed that creating economic insecurity for people in a difficult health situation should improve their conditions on the labour market. It's completely impossible to understand. A documentation centre was opened to monitor the situation of disabled people not many weeks ago. At the same time, an MMI survey showed how employers looked at people with disabilities in relation to employment, and it turned out here that the prejudices were quite hairy, I have to say. One was about as likely to hire disabled people as repeater criminals. So, many of those who live on disability today have disabilities, and then there are prejudices in society and in the workplace that this disability does something so that they are not attractive in the labour market, completely independent of their actual competence. Then that's what we have to do before we start to wave with insecurity in relation to the economic benefits of people who don't have a chance because they're actually being discriminated against. It is quite serious, and I believe that the public here too must go ahead in a much stronger way than today, have it permeated in their employer's policy to have an anti-discrimination perspective where diversity also includes those with disabilities. We know that disabled young people who take long courses do not get a job today. There's no reason for them not to get it, because they have competence, and they can do the jobs. But they don't get it because: 1st@item: inlistbox They compete poorly for summer jobs, for example, so they do not practice when they go out of work.2. They face massive discrimination and face physical barriers. These are things we have to do before we start moralizing that people actually have a disability and maybe have a function again, but can't get to work. For this reason, SV is particularly looking forward to the introduction of a comprehensive anti-discrimination legislation in the labour market, and that the public sector, as well as the state, assumes a greater responsibility for providing concrete job offers to people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e864	Kari Kjønaas Kjos has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e867	It is strange that any proposal from the Progress Party is a ‘moralising’ proposal. Of course, it's not about taking away people's rights or giving them economic uncertainty. It's about people who get sick and are gradually weakened, who say they're being excluded from work long before they want it. They say they could stand in 20 pst. work for a long time, but they are not allowed. That's not acceptable. If this is moralizing, I'm sorry, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e872	The Progress Party has felt misunderstood in a few debates today. But the Progress Party must live with the fact that they are assessed in relation to what they are actually proposing. And the Progress Party proposes: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals to impose an obligation on all social security recipients to participate in the working life with the residual working capacity present, based on the disability rate.’ That is the proposal. It is not a question of giving disability pensioners a right, it is simply an obligation that is not defined at all in relation to the organisation and responsibilities of working life and society. The party of progress must simply learn that we are now taking them seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e882	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1987]]
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e890	The size now goes to voting in case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e898	During the debate, Mr Svendsen presented two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e936	During the debate Sonja Irene Sjøli put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the legislation on care allowance such as:1. Ensures that the expression ‘very serious disease or injury’ of the People’s Security Act is defined equally in hospitals throughout the country. It is also appropriate to consider whether the current disease definition is too strict.2. Ensures the real possibility of acknowledgment of care allowance to both parents under the National Social Security Act § 9-11, even when the child is admitted to hospital.3. Ensures the real possibility of graduated care allowance for both parents.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e972	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kari Kjønaas Kjos, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, by Kari Kjønaas Kjos, on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e997	Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, says: ‘The budget asks the Government to come back with a review of the disability benefit scheme as a salary subsidy in the context of the Revised National Budget for 2006, with a view to making the scheme nationwide. It is necessary to consider below whether the principles can also be continued in a scheme for persons who have been granted disability benefits or temporary disability benefits in accordance with the rules established from 1 January 2004.» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2006-04-27.ana.ud2378e1045	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
